ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u1	503. Information of the Minister of the Environment on the situation on the Bečva River First, I ask that the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec take the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room, a lot of restlessness.]] And I ask the House for peace! The meeting day isn't over yet. It doesn't end until 7:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to interrupt you. After all, the House has requested this point, so it would be appropriate to pay due attention to it so that we can discuss it calmly! I ask all colleagues who have no need to discuss this point and discuss something else in the benches to move them out of the hall. And preferably in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for defending me. I would also like to draw attention to this point. Let me begin by making a very brief recap, but don't worry, I won't be going after the crash investigation days, because we would have been here a long time. But let me just remind you of the basic parameters, including the time scenario. So the leak of the unknown substance into the Bečva River around the Chora bridge associated with the death of fish was reported to the worker of the Regional Inspectorate of the Czech Environmental Inspection Olomouc on Sunday, 20 September after noon. Given that the worker holding the emergency, and I don't know if you can imagine that, of course, we don't have inspection workers in every city or in every village, but we only have a regional workplace, so the worker was there on Sunday afternoon, he left shortly after he verified the matter with the Water Authority, which managed the intervention, with the Fire Rescue Service - I will get there in a moment - and arrived at the place around 14.15. That's the first answer to any questions about why the inspection was so late. Well, the inspection was absolutely standard, because the worker lives about 90 km from where it happened. And if anyone has any idea from the American series that there are any SWAT teams, we're not part of an integrated rescue system like the Czech Environmental Inspection System, so we're not the first ones there. The first one is the Fire Rescue Corps, the first one is the Water Authority from the site. So I think this is the first explanation for the role of Czech environmental inspection. I'll remind you that the exit inspection to the crash site isn't automatic. Just for information, maybe surprise you, 165 accidents were registered in 2019 under the Water Act and the Czech Inspection was invited to investigate only about 40 cases. The inspection always requires or does not require one of the components of the integrated rescue system, in this case it was the Fire Rescue Corps, in the case of an environmental accident in Bečva. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] [[13.40 hours]] According to the Water Act, the intervention in the accident is managed by the competent water authority, which decides on all steps, including rescue procedures, sampling and so on. After the arrival of the Czech on-site inspection, representatives of the Water Law Office of the Valašské Meziříčí, the Fire Rescue Corps, the Moravia basin, as well as the Police of the Czech Republic and of course representatives of fishermen were already representatives of the Water Law Office, because fishermen actually first pointed out that fish were beginning to die. In the following hours and days, literally hundreds of specific steps and actions were carried out, tens of people worked on the site, not counting, of course, volunteers who helped fishermen to dispose of fish, as well as the Fire Rescue Corps. Several independent subjects were performed by many dozens of samples of water, fish - macrozoobentos and phytobentos - evaluated independently in several laboratories. Teams of all participating organisations met several times each day. I would like to stress that from the outset, the maximum technical effort has been made to stop the pollution of the river as soon as possible and to reduce the damage. Unfortunately, contaminants, and after a few days -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u5	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you, and I'm going to ask my colleagues, especially in the vicinity of the SPD club meeting points, to disband the discussion circles, or to beam them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u6	Thank you. Unfortunately, the contaminants - and only after a few days, I suspect that it was Wednesday night, were confirmed by the laboratories that they specifically were cyanides - were soluble in water, so it could not be detected by the Norwegian walls. That is why the Moravia basin, in agreement with the Water Authority, was already on Sunday afternoon to increase the water drain from the Bystřička tank, i.e. dilution of the concentration of the contaminants, and also thanks to this, the concentration of the contaminants was stopped, unfortunately only after a few tens of kilometers in the overskirts of Přerov, where the contaminants, as it later turned out, lost their deadly effects mainly for the fish population. They were mainly affected by jet-milling fish, such as parms, ostrorettes, and others. According to the information of the fishermen, more than 40 tonnes died. According to information experts the Czech Inspection has not confirmed the so far significant death of other river fauna, except fish or flora, but this is obviously subject to further examination, and will be. I'll get to that in a minute. As I have already said, in the following days, many operations were carried out daily by the water authorities of several ORPs, municipalities with extended scope, be they Valašské Meziříčí, Hranice, Přerov, but also the regions, in this case the Olomouc Region, I think also the Zlín Region, but above all the Olomouc Region, also the Fire Rescue Corps, Povodí Moravy, Police of the Czech Republic, Czech Inspections and others, for example Waters and Sewerage Vsetín, which also collected samples. Among other things, a total of 21 subjects were checked for any sources of pollution in the first two days. On 25th September, on Friday, the Czech Environmental Inspectorate handed over the whole file to the Police of the Czech Republic, namely the Vsetín Criminal Police, which has since conducted investigations and specific criminal proceedings. But the police have been on the scene since the first day of the crash. In this context, I believe that you will understand, and this was actually the justification that I mentioned on the Committee on the Environment, that I could not, nor should I, embark on any speculations about the investigation hypothesis, the scenarios, where the cyanide cloud could theoretically spread, or where fish could or could not die following the hydrodynamics of the river, what and how many were measured and how some elements could be affected either the bentos or the fish, because precisely this is part of the judgements of the forensic experts, which the Police of the Czech Republic kept according to the information the Minister of Interior Hamáček has already said. The deadline has certainly already fallen and was also commented on the fact that the police assume that the reports will be processed by 20 December this year. The police have once again confirmed today in connection with some other, you may have noticed some further speculation about another possible source of pollution. I think that's the best evidence that the police are working with a bunch of scenarios, and I really don't want to speculate what scenario they're working with today, what's closer to them. And believe me, of course, don't believe any minister, including the Minister of the Environment, has information from an investigation that is really exactly the same as all of you have information. This means that I am dependent on the official statement of the Police of the Czech Republic, which gives on Twitter or in other ways, but simply public statements. Yes, it bothers me, and I'm just as unhappy as you are that the investigation is taking so long. I really believed, according to the current developments in the first few days, that it would go much faster. You may know that I have called on the Police of the Czech Republic or the law enforcement authorities to speed up the investigation, and the law enforcement authorities have told me that this is a nice call, but that no call from any minister or anyone else can speed up the investigation, where they have a clear strategy, including a timetable, and that this is supervised by the relevant prosecutor, who has also spoken about this several times. Some politicians and some media are reminiscent of my alleged promise that the culprit will be found within hours. Guys, I've reacted a hundred times that I didn't promise anything like that. I was only on Twitter, and I repeat what I said on the Environment Committee, and I would slap myself for ever expressing my faith on Twitter, or any hope that given the information that was available at the time, and I'm about to get there, finding the culprit will be really quicker. So I didn't promise anything, I just believed it was, and I shouldn't have believed it, but hopefully you won't deny it. I mean, if we're talking about the clock, if you look at the time scenario of my or any comments, then actually shortly afterwards, in the order of maybe tens of hours after the statement, the police actually identified a publicly probable source of pollution, a channel that flows into the Bečva river in Juřinka's cadastral territory. As it turned out later, this source, which was then officially identified by the police, was actually a channel that flows into the river from the Tesla Rožnov area. The other lie that some politicians claim is, and let me stick around a little bit, just a little bit, you also asked me that I'm already Tuesday 22. 9...that is, two days after the crash, he knew who it wasn't. Well, I didn't, of course. And I didn't even comment on it. I didn't comment on Deza until 1. 10 or 30. 9. at a press conference after, and I repeat again, what the Police of the Czech Republic publicly labeled on Twitter as a source of pollution was the release of the channel, which, as I said, later turned out to be from the Tesla Rožnov area, and only after the operator of the Tesla Rožnov press release confirmed, was again traceable that the police were interfering with them, and also after the news of Tesla Rožnov became, let's say, public. He spoke to me if I am correct, Mr. Gazdík, who in the beginning identified Deza as the culprit, then apologized for it and said that Deza was not, some others spoke about it, I will not now name it, but of course we can track our names. But coworkers and colleagues, why did Deza even start to talk about it? Because the press didn't ask for anything else. Neither Czech environmental inspection nor I would ever comment on Deza, but journalists have asked only about Deza since the second or third day after the accident. [[13.50 hours]] On the basis of the local investigation, the inspection also excluded a number of other companies or establishments from the total of 21 companies that were investigated, but of course only deza was interested in journalists. According to Deza, according to a group of employees of the water law office of ČIZP and Povodí Moravy, the state of the cleaning plant was in order, the nature and quality of the waste water and the state in the drainage lagoon, and that was also on the basis of which this statement was actually made, but again I say, I did not comment on Deza until after it expressed itself and on the likely source of pollution of the Police of the Czech Republic and others, otherwise I would not have done so. I think we all understand that this was - and I'm going to give you one more argument that I think is very distinctive. The crash happened on Sunday 20. 9. and until Thursday the twenty-fourth, no one at the Ministry of Environment from the media asked for any detail. Logically, because she investigated it, or they asked the Water Authority, asked the Czech Inspectorate and did not politicize it. It was just a crash that happened, and no one asked us. It was only the twenty-fourth that a hunt began on social networks, and then we responded. So that's also the answer to the question that some of you had, why I didn't comment on it. Well logically, I didn't express myself in the past about a whole series of such events, so I didn't express myself in this case either, and suddenly it was considered as some failure of ours that we didn't express ourselves. But here was a logical link to the fact that it was actually investigated by bodies under water law, namely water law authorities or Czech environmental inspection. This means, this, all the samples that were tens, or even more than a hundred, from the Moravia River and from the Bečva River - and I stress again, they were collected by the water authorities, collected by the Fire Rescue Corps, collected by the Police of the Czech Republic, collected by the Moravia Flood, collected by the Waterways and Sewerage Vsetín and others - were handed over to the Police of the Czech Republic. If anyone speculates that there have been some steps taken to smooth the tracks - and please, it already seems like a diagnosis when someone says that Moravia will sink the step that has taken in the next moment and which, according to its operating orders, is to dilute the contaminants, and someone accuses Moravia that it has covered the tracks by thinning the flow from the dam Bystrička, don't be angry, it's already an incredible witch hunt. And if you look at how many dozens of people have been taking samples from many organizations, including the Police of the Czech Republic, which has been there since the beginning, really speculating about some nationwide institution conspiracy to wipe out footprints, I already think that's actually a diagnosis. Now let me briefly mention the sanctions that threaten the culprit under the applicable legislation. Police are investigating this accident, of course, which means this could be a criminal offence under the Criminal Code, § 293, 294, environmental damage and threat. The perpetrator is in danger of being punished for 1 to 8 years of imprisonment and no action. Moreover, of course, the perpetrator's damage can be recovered. In the case of a penalty under the Water Act, the amount of the penalty is CZK 5 million, up to CZK 5 million, which has been in the Water Act for a very, very long time, plus the implementation of measures to remedy the defective condition and remedy the damage caused. In this case, this would, of course, be mainly the damage caused to the fish population, the cost of rendering, the cost of re-rawling and more. From the point of view of a sufficient environmental damage penalty, we have two instruments, either a component law on water, a water law, or a law on environmental damage, which has not yet been applied in the Czech Republic. And this is the first case, where even after the inspection and with others and, of course, mainly according to how it closes the matter of the Police of the Czech Republic, we are considering how the case could be applied by the Environmental Damage Act, which would be a precedent, but we need a whole range of opinions, which, among other things, maybe the police are having it done today, but the Ministry of Environment is also having these assessments carried out in the course of the studies, I will get there immediately. Of course, we also deal with the whole issue from the perspective of legislative and procedural, i.e. first and foremost from the point of view of the procedure and coordination of individual bodies according to water law and other legislation, especially the procedure in the event of major accidents affecting a larger area of competence of several water authorities or regions. In any case, I have decided that we will use this case for acute training of the Water Authority with regard to the various legislation applicable in the event of such an accident, i.e. water law, emergency decree, crisis law, water supply and sewerage law, etc. We are already discussing with the ministries of agriculture and the interior over the refinement of the relevant legislation, so that it is clear who intervenes in what type of accident and instructs whether the accident is dealt with under crisis law, under water law, and which authorities direct its enforcement or enforcement with regard to its severity. Experience shows that not all water law authorities, which under the Water Act have responsibility and competence over the so-called recovery of the accident under the Water Act, are able, by their scope or experience, to manage crisis actions that go beyond their territory, and so, of course, personnel, managerial and decision-making capabilities and possibilities. We also want to adjust the legislation in the field of discharge and reporting of polluters into the flow. We can reduce the reporting thresholds or expand the fan of the monitored substances so that the polluters are under greater public control. For several years, we have established a functional working group in which both polluters and non-governmental organisations, such as Arnika, are represented, aimed precisely at adapting legislation on substances released into the environment. There we also discuss monitoring and limits of substances such as cyanides, copper, nickel and others. For three years, the European Commission has been carrying out a so-called fitness check, an evaluation of the relevant directives aimed at monitoring water and pollutants, on its results. We expect them to launch a debate next year on tightening up European legislation, and it will only be good if the Czech Republic is ahead of us in this debate, which will undoubtedly be because we have been dealing with this thing, as I said, for about two years and we have already proposed some tightening up. So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion. Personally, I care very, very much that the pollution of Bečva should be investigated as soon as possible, and I would be happiest if it were already a month or six weeks ago, as I originally believed and hoped that the culprit would be found as soon as possible and, of course, fall to whom fall. I dare say that it is clear, perhaps you believe me, or at least some of you, that it is logical that we do not want to contribute at all, or, on the contrary, we are most interested in dispersing public doubts as quickly as possible. [[Nesroz.]] In this matter, we provide maximum synergies to law enforcement authorities. And I have full confidence in the Police of the Czech Republic, which is investigating this matter, and I say again, the authorities as water authorities and the Czech Environmental Inspection have handed over the whole file or all the information they had at their disposal on 25 September to the Police of the Czech Republic, since then it has been investigated by the police. I have never pushed in any case the inspectors of the Czech Inspection or other officials in the Ministry to proceed differently than in accordance with their responsibilities and competences, professional standards and conscience. If I ever press my people, it's all about making decisions as quickly as possible. If anyone suspects me from any influence, I mean politicians, so don't be angry, they're probably judging by themselves. What he might be doing in my place. [[14.00 hours]] In this context, I would just mention a relatively new report, which, of course, will not automatically be in the media. Do you remember how many times you've crossed me here for the matter of Uhersk Ostroh? Well, you know the verdict, but that's not what we're talking about. A few weeks ago, the judgment of the Regional Court in Brno came out, which clearly confirmed the accuracy of the Ministry of Environment's procedure in all aspects from the point of view of the EIA. And you remember five years of the chase, just the hunt that was there for me, what we did wrong, who we went to meet in the mining process, etc.? And I was just here defending my officers. I'm a politician, and of course I'm used to hearing a whole bunch of sharp words, but a whole bunch of politicians, the media was attacking officials if there were any other things that affected, let's say, their opinion or their opinion that it was actually all suspicious. The Regional Court in Brno - I will gladly give you the judgment, after all we put it in the Czech Press Office, which has already published it - the Regional Court in Brno clearly confirmed that the Ministry of Environment officials had no doubt. I mean, I'm deliberately saying this here because even here, let's just say it's some kind of chase to these people, wondering if they've decided whether or not they've been covering their tracks. And I say again, please, if dozens of people are moving there, even if someone doesn't trust any of this subject, and I have full confidence in them, both in the inspection and in the Police of the Czech Republic, so dozens of people, inspectors, officials, experts from all areas, including the police, are being supervised by the prosecutors today, and somebody is really planning some kind of conspiracy, so it is really without comment. So if, in other cases, many of you are enchanted by letting the police work or the law enforcement authorities work independently and without pressure, let us also do so in this case and do so in this case as well. Finally, I would like to thank everyone again who is in the process of eliminating this ecological accident, which is undoubtedly large, and we have only a comparison of about 14 years ago with the accident on the Elbe, similarly just poisoned cyanides. I would like to thank the fishermen. I've met with them several times since then and I've been in communication quite regular with a number of them. I would like to assure you that the government is trying to help the situation in Bečva as quickly as possible return to a state before poisoning. The government approved aid for the fishing union of CZK 7.5 million in the next ten years for fishing. We are really in close contact with the local fishing union or, in general, the Czech Fisheries Union and we communicate with them, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture. Another hundreds of thousands of crowns will go from the Ministry of the Environment to studies of academic workplaces that have already been commissioned, and they are already being worked on, the state of the river and the surrounding area as a basis for the decision on the procedure for further fishing. So help is clearly here, and colleagues know that we're gonna help them with whatever they need. Let's do it again, folks. It's in my best interest, and if I haven't done anything else in my office, then believe me, I don't want to let this happen, that it could ever become a monument or a tomb, it's in my best interest, the highest interest that the culprit should be found as soon as possible to be punished, but just at this point, please let the law enforcement authorities work. And I firmly believe that they will come in some time - and again I say, I would be happiest if they had run out and if that time were as short as possible - to a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u7	Thank you. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček is now reporting to me with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u8	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. It's Friday 14.04 o'clock. I apologize for entering into the waters of this discussion. However, I would like to propose that we take a vote to eliminate all remaining points except this, so that we can subsequently end this meeting and prepare ourselves with a clear head for the next week when we will have six extraordinary meetings. Five I've already ordered, six I ordered, seven I talked them into taking back. That's where my colleague's pointing at me. So we'll have another time. Thank you for your attention. Such a procedural proposal - vote immediately to exclude all items from the agenda except this one, which is now open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u9	Yes, i.e. elimination of all remaining points except for point 503. I'm just going to call my colleagues into the hall to at least partially fill the number that shines on the board, and I'm going to point out that the House originally put a point 18 on this day, but I understand that it will probably never get to it again. So if we're all logged in as much as we want to be logged in, then I'm opening the vote to eliminate all remaining points except this. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 340, there are 88 Members and Members, for 51, against 2. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. So we've eliminated all remaining points from this meeting's agenda, except for point 503. Please reflect this on the board, and we will continue to discuss paragraph 503. So now I ask that the appellant take the floor on this point, which will be represented by Mr Benešík, and which, if he agrees, will then also become his rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The reason we let this point as a KDU-ČSL is that some question marks simply remain, remain unexplained or only partially, and maybe it is also good if we explained them internally, so that they can also be heard on the microphone. I would have said some of those question marks, those questions that we have on the entire pollution situation on the Bečva River once more. And is it really a source of Bečva's contamination of the canal in the Rožnov Tesla? According to witness statements, this river was evidently intact several kilometres below the alleged source of pollution, and especially under low river flow conditions on 20. 9. 2020. How is it possible that, as a possible source of pollution, Deza, interříčská chemist was removed from the suspect's circle very quickly, the day after the crash? This was done on the basis of an investigation by the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, which is part of the Ministry of Environment's strategy. The citizens of the city did not know about cyanide in the river and the health risks associated with it until four days later. I'm not really asking about Deza, I don't have anything against the company, but I'm just surprised by the speed at which she was eliminated. And it's not just a surprise to me that they knew right away who wasn't. And the question mark is all the more powerful that Deza said she wasn't handling cyanide. Finally, it was found from public sources very quickly that cyanide was being handled. So it's obvious that either Deza has been fogged or they don't have an overview of what they're doing, but both versions are really very dangerous for the neighborhood. And how is it possible to disable responsiblely as a possible source of pollution to a company with a channel that allows the discharge of waste water containing cyanide from the biological sewage treatment plant directly into the Bečva stream? It would also be worth explaining or finding out why Deza carried out a non-standard waste water analysis at 8 a.m. on the day of the accident, when no one actually knew about it. And it would definitely be worth commenting on the delayed reaction of the Czech Environment Inspection. According to information from the director of the Olomouc branch of Mr.Pallós at press conference 1. 10. 2020 was analysed by the State Veterinary Institute in Olomouc with confirmation of symptoms of cyanide poisoning in samples of dead fish as early as Monday 21. 9. This is not just a question of material nature. We don't want to beat anyone up, but trust can't even wake up to the fact that an institution that's saving the matter isn't even able to say after four weeks who poisoned the river with cyanide. How would we address, for example, a terrorist chemical attack on drinking water sources? In such a situation, it would be necessary to identify the source of pollution simply in a flash. [[14.10 hours]] If we don't know how the crash happened, it may happen again in the future. We must therefore do everything we can together to minimise such a risk. That's our point. We would like to hear from the Minister what steps are being taken, both legislative and non-legislative, in order to minimise this risk. It's about our nature, it's about the health and lives of our citizens. On this point, we have taken the liberty of proposing a resolution which I will allow you to read: Chamber of Deputies I. Notes that the ecological disaster on the Bečva river of 20 September 2020 caused by the leakage of the unidentified amount of cyanide caused by the poisoning and death of all living organisms on the 38 km of the river in the river has not yet been satisfactorily explained. In addition, on 27 October 2020, an additional leak of unknown chemical occurred. Even this event is not yet explained. II. The Chamber of Deputies requests a government 1. to ensure a thorough examination of chemicals leaks from 20 September t. r. and 27 October t. r., 2. She supervised the granting of exemplary fines to the culprits, including the obligation to pay compensation for the damage caused - for example, by using our judicial system - that is just my point, 3. submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a concrete proposal for measures to prevent similar leakages of chemicals not only on the Bečva river, but on all streams in the Czech Republic. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u11	Thank you. Any motions for resolutions must then be read in a detailed debate. I thank the honourable Member that he has already taken his place at the rapporteur's table and will follow with me the debate that I am opening at the moment. František Elfmark is the first to submit an opinion on behalf of the Pirate Party's MP with priority rights. Then written applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I think that today we all agree on one thing, and that is that if we do not have to discuss anything here, it would be best for both nature and the environment, and when such a disaster or an accident has already occurred, we need to examine it carefully. I guess there's no doubt about it. There's a lot going on here. I'll just remember a few more of these technical data. 40 tons of fish died in this disaster, and I believe that there was also a risk of a striped, endangered species among them. There was a total of 35 km of flow. Contamination cloud progressed from Chorina to Vsetínsko through Hustopec nad Bečvou to Přerov. So here, as the Minister recalled, it was a matter of two regions, Zlinsky and Olomouc. Although more than 50 days have passed since the disaster, the culprit is still unknown, and the investigation that is ongoing has not yet revealed anything concrete, or at least some specific interlink. So far, there are only speculations and speculations. The minister and my previous speaker here have said a lot in detail about this event. I'm only gonna take a few points. We were talking about Deza here. Of course, there's no need to discuss it here, if it wasn't possible from there, we never said or said, rather information - the previous speaker said so - that Deza doesn't cooperate with cyanide. If you look at the central register, you'll find there that not only is he cooperating with it, but there's also an escape every year. [[There's a laugh coming from the rapporteur's desk: I wouldn't be very cooperative with cyanide.]] In 2019 - 93,5 kg, in 2018 - 64,9 kg, and so on So we can find out from the central registers that cyanide is in some way there. [[The President warns that the microphone should be switched off at the rapporteur's desk.]] It is also quite striking that one of the main witnesses of this accident was approached and contacted only after 42 days of investigation, and after being contacted, he was told that he was in no way allowed to comment on the media. I don't know if this is the standard way, but I don't think so. We tried to discuss questions about the case with both Mr. Minister and Mr. Director of the P.I.P. Geuss at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment. Unfortunately, we didn't find anything concrete there with the justification for an ongoing police investigation. After all, I learned the same from the written interpellation I gave to the Minister and also from the letter which I sent to the director of the CIP. There was nothing concrete in either report. If there was at least something similar to what we heard from the minister today, or at least some appeal, but we didn't find anything like it. I consider it beneficial that we have adopted a resolution on the committee in which we call for the Ministry of the Environment to take new measures to prevent major environmental accidents, because that is what the Committee should and should serve for. This is a reduction of reporting thresholds in the integrated register of pollution, the so-called IRZ, for cyanides, so that it is possible to better monitor discharges and handling of these highly hazardous substances, the inclusion of perfluoroalkylated substances, the so-called PFAS, the list of substances reported in water and waste as well as in IRZ, and the improvement of the search system, the system of recording contaminated sites, and the addition of specific data on substances that may escape from these sites into the environment. Here I would like to ask the Minister if, in connection with the death of fish, I would like to ask whether and how Law No. 167/2008 Coll., on the prevention and correction of environmental damage and on the amendment of certain laws. The law regulates the rights and obligations of persons in the prevention and correction of environmental harm, if it has occurred or threatened directly on protected species of wild fauna or flora, at the habitats defined by this law, on water or on land. The Act applies to environmental damage or to an imminent threat to its origin if it is caused by the operational activities detailed in Annex 1 to the Act. It concerns, for example, equipment subject to integrated authorisation, equipment for the recovery or purchase of waste and discharge of waste water into surface or groundwater waters. Given that cyanide leaks have occurred from waste water discharges into surface water and there has also been death of endangered fish of oukleika, this law could be applied in my opinion, at least by analogy, so proceedings should be initiated for the imposition of corrective measures, and once the culprit is caught, it should bear all the consequences for this disaster and should also pay compensation for this environmental damage. I would also like to ask whether the expert opinions that have been promised to us should be published by about 20 December of this year. It is a question of the Minister whether he, the Members and Members, will somehow publish those expert opinions in some way at least partially. Finally, I would like to ask and reiterate the questions that I have asked on the committee and to which I have not yet heard the answer. If he's familiar with questioning the place of escape, as the surrounding residents, fishermen, etc. claim. We have heard it here, even in the media today, and the Minister has remembered it, for which I thank him, there has been a report today that there has been a third discharge that has not been registered until today, and it is quite possible that something might have entered this discharge from the train station. So here's where I wanted to ask if he had any more specific things to do with it. It is a train station in Lhotka. [[14.20 hours]] We are in order to make the case more clear to the public, launched a special website, which you can find at zazivoubecvu.cz Because the whole case since September 20th is very obscure. There's been a lot of events going on, and for citizens who might be interested in it in some way, we've done this new site where they can clearly find all the events that have happened to this thing. Thank you for answering the questions from the Minister, and I hope that the methodological ones, or perhaps the measures that the Ministry will take in some way, will be properly informed by the Committee on the Environment, or we will be able to participate in these matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u13	Thank you, and now I presume from the point of view with the priority right of President Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u14	Thank you for the floor. I apologise to my colleagues that I am taking advantage of preferential rights at this time, I will try to be very brief and ask the Minister also some of the things that are fundamental and fundamental in this debate. We all certainly wish this disaster to be investigated as soon as possible, to be punished by the culprit and to be held accountable. You, Minister, also on the Committee on the Environment, mentioned here today that actually the transparency that we are trying to make here can be a problem for the investigation itself, and it is basically imposed an information embargo on the part of the police and other authorities. [[unintelligible]] I wonder who decided that. If it was the police itself, it is understandable, of course, but if it was the Czech Environmental Inspection and other state bodies and some subordinate bodies, it was from the Ministry, your personal or anyone else. I think that in that debate, given that there are really too many question marks around it, and it is not us politicians who would raise them, even in many cases it is not about journalists, but it is about experts, it is really about people who engage in professional activities such as at universities in chemistry, etc. One of them, one specific article, which is, of course, available, even has, because it is very detailed and extensive, two parts, is from associate professor Petřivalský from Palacký University in Olomouc. And I will allow myself to rely on him for a large part of the questions, because it is the real authority in the area that is being discussed here, and I think that the attempts to reconstruct what has been going on have been heard by a number of people, but in his case, it may be difficult to question his motive or any political connection with him, which I think we agree. Therefore, I would like to know, at the time that you were already at the press conference on 1 October, as you said yourself, on the basis of the police and also the Czech environmental inspection, to rule out Deza as the source of pollution, so whether we should translate it in such a way that there is no further investigation, if it is no longer at all in the sight of all the investigators, whether directly the police or even the Czech Inspection and others. So if by October 1st, if I can time it this way according to your statements, it was in a way ended, and why, if there were any other doubts afterwards, would this be the case, if that is the case, I now speculate, I don't know. So I would like to know, the answer to that question, because it is from Mr Petřivalský that there are a number of specific incentives to the one completely questioning the most famous or most common version of the canal from which the river was to be poisoned. I'm gonna quote him right now because I think the conclusion of this very detailed article is very interesting. And I'd like to know the answers to the specific things he said, whether you agree with them, or whether you have the opportunity to prove that his version, let's say, of the reconstruction of the crime scene, as he himself calls it, is not true. So I quote him: "In view of the volatile chemical nature of simple cyanides, their movement and their short life in the water stream, three weeks from the beginning of cyanide poisoning, it is possible to speculate only what might have happened. With far more probability, one can conclude what could not have happened. 1. It can be said with certainty that sometime in the morning hours of 20. 9. 2020 a mixture of cyanide containing substances or cyanide compounds releasing cyanide into the Bečva River has been introduced. 2. With high probability, the cause was rather negligence, accident or accident. There are a number of far less obvious ways to get rid of cyanides than to pour them into the river. 3. Highly likely in the flow of unknown chemicals occurred somewhere in the section between the bridge in the town of Valašský Meziříčí Juřinka and the bridge in Chropyně. 4. It is very unlikely that the channel from the Tesla Rožnov area, which was often mentioned, was located on the right bank of the river about a hundred metres below the bridge in Juřinka, a river kilometer of about 59., for these reasons. In the event of discharge of waste water from this channel containing anticipated large concentrations of highly toxic simple cyanides, fish would have to be killed in this section, especially under low flow conditions on 20 September 2020. These deaths of fish would have to be observed in the area of two lakes of the Bečva stream, km 58.7 and km 58.1. Toxic substances would most likely penetrate the power plant on the left bank turning just above the Juřinka II lake into a system of ponds called Juřinská eye. According to the fishermen's testimony, however, there were no deaths. 5. It is likely that the culprit, the source of cyanide poisoning, knew and tried to alleviate the leak in the Bečva River. This is indicated by the fishermen's information that, at the places of the first observed death of fish in the section from Chrodyna to Dentistry, the water smelled the smell of chlorine and the fishermen pulling out dead fish in the media described the sensations of tingling or burning hands and dried skin. Oxidation of cyanide with chlorine or chlorine in an alkaline environment is one of the proven chemical methods of oxidation and detoxification of cyanides. 6. It is certain that the Czech environmental inspection tried to delay the publication of the origin of the poisoning. According to information from the director of the regional inspection of Mr. Pallós at press conference 1. 10. 2020 was analysed by the State Veterinary Institute in Olomouc with confirmation of cyanide poisoning in a sample of dead fish as early as Monday 21. 9." As far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna keep going, I'm gonna skip a lot of it now. Currently the only known place where there may be a large number of simple and complex cyanides in this area is the premises of Deza, which, of course, includes an appeal to the CIP investigation, states that all technological units of our wastewater treatment plant - citations - have been checked and that the inspection has checked the state of the cleaning plant. Not only would I be sure in the light of the above information why Deza checked the discharge of waste water from her premises at 8 a.m. on 20. 9. and whether the inspection checked the operation of the ozone treatment unit, the proper termination of the test operation of the new biological water treatment plant, and whether the waste water passes through the river flow through the drainage of the lagoon, as well as whether controls were carried out on the storage tank of highly toxic raw sewage before the entry into operation of the chemical treatment plant, whether the sludge tanks after the clotting of cyanides were controlled by iron salts and all pipes and chemical sewerage transferring the waste water from one part of the premises, from the chemical treatment plant, to the opposite end, the biological treatment plant, or whether a hypothetical possibility of leaking of waste water with high cyanide content and subsequent overflow or flushing into the rain or sewage sewer system was checked at some point in the Deza area. [[no]] [[14.30 hours]] Now, I would like special attention: What can I say in conclusion? Something smells easy around Deza, and it's not just the usual smell that the residents of the city and the surrounding communities have become accustomed to for generations of cohabitation with the chemical factory. It's a light odor of bitter almonds typical of a highly toxic hydrogen cyanide no one wants to get used to. If I were a public relations manager in a company that has a completely clear conscience, I'd be running a journalist's field trip around the company so that they can see for themselves that even a drop of toxic cyanide waters can't escape where it doesn't. However, Deza's attitude toward Bečva's cyanide poisoning suggests that he does not have a very clear conscience. End of quote by Professor Petřivalský. I think that the concrete conclusions he makes there, from the information he has at his disposal, is quite enough to be answered even in view of the great gravity of the disaster and the great suspicions. That is why I am particularly interested in what I have already said in the introduction to whether the Deza investigation is still ongoing. And I would also like to know your answer to whether the forensic expert, who today - yesterday the Prime Minister said in response to the interpelation - is indisposed by health, is the only one working on it - it seems absurd to me in the event of such a disaster that we would be dependent on one forensic expert - or therefore there is no larger team to do so. In fact, there is also a very interesting quote in response to yesterday's interpellation, which the Prime Minister here said, where I quote it again: "You have deliberately and purposefully spread the constructed lies that Deza caused the disaster. That, of course, is a lie." So it is in contradiction with that, it is a quote from the Prime Minister from yesterday, that on the one hand directly representatives of the ANO movement, whether it was directly on the Committee on the Environment or in the media, or it is here today, when they call on us to let the police take action and not comment on it at all, but one thing is certain: one company simply could not, coincidentally falls under Agrofert, by the coincidence of our Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. This, of course, is one of those examples of conflict of interest that has been going on for many years on this political scene. I would therefore like to know if you will incur the political responsibility yourself if the culprit is not found and the case is lost, however long it may take. I wonder if you're ready to draw political responsibility from this. The Minister of the Environment, if I am not mistaken, you are actually the longest in the modern history of the Czech Republic, and certainly already very experienced, and you should certainly be able to say whether a disaster of such dimensions, which is not too similar in modern history, is common, that it has been investigated for such a long time that there is even a chance that the culprit will still be found, punished and held accountable as I firmly believe, that we all wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u15	Thank you. I'm just gonna point out that there was an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna ask everyone present to sign-in if necessary. And we will continue with the general debate, when Member Stanislav Blaha is now in office. And I'll hand over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u16	Dear Minister, fellow Members, 54 days since Bečva became a dead river, we have finally come here to discuss this point. It's sad and scary at the same time because it means one thing: 40 tons of dead fish, irreversibly damaged river ecosystem and poisoned water. There's still a question mark on all this. We don't know who did this. People who should make the most of their efforts to conduct investigations transparently and openly, i.e. the Minister of the Environment and Prime Minister, have chosen a strategy of silence. Since 54 days is a really long time, I would like to briefly repeat what has happened since that fateful day of September 20, 2020. I want to stress that my timeline is logically based on publicly available sources, so unlike the Minister, I cannot rely on the Ministry's information. September 20, 2020. In the early hours of the morning, chemist Deza takes samples of water from Bečva. That's two more times that day. It's unusual, because they take samples regularly on Mondays. In the first morning measurements, they're still tracking cyanides, which they have to report. But in the next two measurements, cyanides are already missing. We're lucky to have one excellent expert who once led a chemical plant as a director. It's Minister Richard Brabec. I believe that Lovochemie and Deza are much alike, and not only are they part of the Agrofert Group. Moreover, in Lovochem, they also have a wealth of experience with the escape of poisons. Minister, will you enlighten us with this mystery of cyanide measurement? On Sunday morning, fishermen will notice something strange is happening. Soon it's clear. ryba are dying. Fishers are trying to get them out of the water, save them. Later, they describe that the river smelled of chlorine, their hands burned them, and their skin was dry. According to one of the experts dealing with the case, this indicates that someone was well aware of the leak and tried to alleviate it with a proven chlorine oxidation method. Here, let me have a little slip and look back until 2008. On 28 October 2008, Deza's chemist leaked 20 tons of naphthalene, which clogged the sewer system. Deza workers warmed up naphthalene with hot steam to vaporize, but naphthalene began to smell and smell people reported to the Valmez police. Still, Deza spent more than a week banging on the leak, and she didn't admit it until 11 days later. But back to 2020. A day later, September 21, 2020, Czech environmental inspection already suspects it was cyanide. They have the results of the fish autopsy and made their own research. It led them to 2006, when Draslovka's cyanide escaped from the Elbe race. The course of the accident was practically identical at the time, but information about cyanide in Bečva is not yet available to the public. The same day comes the flame expression from Deza. It wasn't us. They were allegedly excluded from the case by the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, which did not find any errors with them after the investigation. I remind you, at this time, it is officially unknown what poisoned the river. The cyanide report is published three days later, Thursday, 24 September 2020. Moreover, it has been raining heavily for the last three days, so it is clear that if the samples have not been taken during these three days, they will hardly be collected now. Richard Brabec claims cyanide was only able to detect this very day. However, given the recent autopsy on fish and environmental inspection, this is clearly not true. Minister, have you tried to buy time so that samples cannot be taken according to the correct methodology? On Friday, September 25, 2020 Czech environmental inspection will hand over the file to the police of Vsetín. From that day on, arguments such as: We can't say anything, it's being dealt with by the police. On Saturday, September 26, 2020, police will report that they found a channel through which cyanide leaked to Bečva. That it was a channel in Juřinka but will not reveal until three days later, September 29, 2020. The long silence breaks "a truly shocking message " on Saturday, October 10, 2020. The case is subject to an information embargo. But it's not clear by whom. Prosecutor Petr Bareš refuses to release it. Other sources say Jan Hamáček gave it up, but he says it's not in his jurisdiction. Minister, this information is certainly not subject to secrecy, and no one more qualified than you can answer this question. So who put an information embargo on the case? [[14.40 hours]] On Tuesday, October 27, an unknown substance leaked to Bečva again. Supposedly it was nickel and saponates. This time without much hype, there is almost no talk of it as if water poisoning was a normal, normal thing in the Czech Republic. My list of events ends at this point. Next, only the "pearls" continue: the hysterical call of Ms ANO Eva Fialová, former employee of Lovochem, let the negotiations of the Committee on the Environment take place under a secret regime, lying statements by Dezo that she does not work with cyanide. I wonder why they invested millions in an ionization unit in 2007 which, according to their own words, was the best available technology that would significantly contribute to reducing cyanide content in waste water. And why, if they have nothing to do with cyanide, do they regularly report to the integrated pollution register the levels of cyanide that escape them into Bečva? Yesterday, Prime Minister Babiš claimed that the channel had yet to be identified and repeated that it was not Deza. How is it possible that he has such information? I mean, it's only the police who see the file. Or is it different? I'll leave the rest of the nonsense that the Prime Minister leaked yesterday in response to my interpelation without comment, because I guess we could all make a picture. I'm not a former chemist or cyanide expert. I'm a man who's shocked to the core by the fact that something or someone here poisoned water killed 40 tons of fish, and the government pretends nothing happened, and refuses to talk about it. Each of us feels that something stinks, that there's something suspicious. The state authorities have proven to be hiding information, waiting with their publications. And now he's trying to sweep the case under the rug. I want to be clear at least on these matters, and I ask Richard Brabec to answer them: Why did you wait three days to release Bečva's poisoned cyanide? Radek Pallós said it was clear the day after the disaster. Why was Deza voted out? It is information that has been heard from you, Minister, from Deza, from the Czech Environmental Inspection and, finally, yesterday from Andrej Babiš. I don't think he's undercover. There's an information embargo on the case, so why does it keep ringing that it wasn't Deza? If I approach your rhetoric, it's influencing the investigation. And how do you feel about that? How many samples have been taken? Mr Geuss, head of the Czech Environmental Inspection Committee, mentioned number 60 on the Environment Committee, Prime Minister Babiš mentioned number 100 yesterday. Then what is it? Mr. Geuss also said that the samples were sent to the lab for analysis. That contradicts the information from the Prime Minister who claims to be one man with a covid. Where are the samples, Minister? According to what methodology were samples collected from poisoned Bečva? Release this document. It's also nothing secret, but it's standard documentation that officials in your department at the Ministry of the Environment have to hand. I ask because the confused information that comes to us only confirms the belief that the synergies between the teams were not sufficient, and that is why, among other things, such delays occur now. Please publish the document according to which such accidents occur. Who is responsible for what, what needs to be done, what samples are collected for later evaluation of the emergency situation. I am convinced that this is again a methodology that must be held in the hands of the officials at your department. Already in 2006 he escaped cyanide to the Elbe. We were criticized by Germany that the early warning system on the Czech side had failed. They didn't get the information until after an incredible nine days. It's been 14 years and nothing's changed. What is the strategy of the resort in this area? And please take concrete steps to improve the current tragic state. Who put an information embargo on the case? Was it Jan Hamáček, Petr Bareš, or was it someone else? Are you going to deal with cyanide, which escapes regularly to Bečva according to the integrated pollution register? And if you're not planning on it, I want to know why. Thank you. I saw that during my speech, you've been putting yourself behind us several times, but the same could be done by all of us who are interested in the situation on the Bečva River, and the situation that exists here after this crash. I'm also a fisherman, which is why I'm very interested in living in the river. At this point, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution to which I will later sign up in a detailed debate: Firstly, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to come before the Chamber of Deputies within 30 days of today and inform about the course of the investigation, changes and procedure in the case of poisoned Bečva. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Environment Minister Richard Brabec to publish a methodology according to which samples and evidence are taken in the event of such accidents. I still have a third paragraph of the resolution prepared, which I have launched in consultation with the appellant at this time, because we have overlapped in part of the resolution. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say one thing in particular, and that is actually the procedure for the investigation of this case. I have tabled one point on the Committee on the Environment in the motion for a resolution where I have requested that the Ministry of the Environment process a methodology which will be perfectly understandable and will be clear about how the bodies active in this resolution should cooperate; who have what responsibilities; how the procedure is recorded so that it can then be re-evaluated; what are simply the responsibilities of the individual organs. In the discussion, the Minister responded by adapting everything in the water law, where it is clearly defined and described, and therefore there is no need to draw up any methodology. Here in plenary a moment ago, he told us that the Ministry of the Environment, on the contrary, will process some guidelines on how to proceed. And apparently it has come to my attention that it also means some legislative regulation, in the law of water, as well as in the law of crisis, that it actually affects about three legislative amendments, which need to be better tuned together somehow. So here I see a contradiction in the responses to the environmental committee and now. But I'm glad the Minister brought it up here in plenary. On this basis, I would propose one point in the resolution, which I suppose we will approve at the end of this meeting, and that is: The Chamber of Deputies asks Minister Brabec to submit within one month a binding regulation to ensure a uniform approach to the resolution of accidents in the environment, from which the competences of the various government authorities and other stakeholders would result, and clear binding procedures governing the procedure for the investigation and transmission of information between all stakeholders, including keeping records of all operations, so that the entire procedure can be evaluated retroactively. I think that when we evaluate this case at some point in time, there will always be a question mark, if it has been done correctly, because there is simply no mandatory regulation, a methodology that would modify it. And I have to say that even environmental pirates from the regional representation in Olomouc and Zlín have a problem that they don't know how to proceed properly. [[14.50 hours]] That's probably the most important thing I wanted to say. And then I wanted to inform that the Committee on the Environment has adopted a resolution for which I am very happy, and that is a resolution that seeks to prevent such accidents in the future, by improving the record of dangerous substances with a reduction in the thresholds for this registration, because it is full of substances that are not sufficiently captured, and their leakage may mean poisoning of sources of drinking water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u19	Thank you, Madame. And Mrs Fialová is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u20	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Thank you to those who stayed here to discuss this point. [[There are about 30 Members in the hall.]] Since my name has been mentioned here, I feel it is an obligation to shed light on some of the things that have taken place on the Committee on the Environment. First of all, I perceive the tragedy that happened on the Bečva River as very unfortunate. I am not indifferent and I want the culprit to be punished according to the rules of our valid legislation of the Czech Republic as soon as possible. It was mentioned here that I asked the Committee on the Environment for a special arrangement to discuss this point. And the reasons were simple. Given that this is a live case, information that could be heard on the environmental committee, either from the mouth of the Minister of the Environment or from the environmental inspection, could endanger the course of the investigation or possibly thwart it. I proposed this point because the environmental committee had already acted in a similar regime when it was confidential information, and it did not seem to me to be in conflict. What followed was a shock to me. My resolution was adopted by almost all members of the environment. I'll be objective, only Mrs. Adamová Pekarová was against it. However, my request did not raise any heated discussion. At the beginning of the point, we were informed that the Minister and environmental inspection were connected. The fact that the committee continued to be followed by online journalists, the public, invited guests, who were not informed of physically on the environmental committee by a word, I learned from the mouth of the Minister of the Environment, who informed about it in his speech. I have made a request to the President whether this is normal and whether it is in line with the resolution that we adopted just now. I was told that it was only a record and that it was not possible to get audio recordings, which seemed a little smiling to me when he was an IT specialist. I only had to express my disagreement with this by signing up for a general debate and my emotions were caused only by the President's committee procedure. The fact that this is a living case and speculation that took place on the Committee on the Environment about who might be the culprit, what was the timeline, is currently happening, is a plenary, and is strictly misleading. And I stand by my statement, and I will do so in any other living case, so that it is not publicly denied and can be held and investigated by the police and the authorities in criminal proceedings. There are further questions here about my conflict of interest, or that I'm connected to Agrofert. Yes, I worked at Lovochem. But I didn't go straight from Lovochemie to the Chamber of Deputies. I've had other jobs. And I'm happy about that, because I've gained at least the right practice, and I know the procedures for dealing with chemicals in chemists themselves, and therefore I'm not affected by how many times by what somebody is speculating somewhere, someone is going to write, and I could feel it for myself. It is often based on amendments from individual Members who are motivated by lobbying, and people in practice find it difficult to cope with them. I've witnessed it x-times. An example may be, for example, an amendment to waste, which fortunately failed, from KDU-ČSL workshop, which proposed the selection of an individual carrier for all shipments of waste to the city. How would others deal with this in practice? Laws are made for everyone, and not just for one particular group, which is always good for you now. And if we are talking about my conflict of interest, I have a specific question here through Mr President on the Chair of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Balcarová, who recorded to me in the previous speech that there are procedures. She herself worked as an IT specialist at the Czech Environmental Inspection, so she must know in detail when she was an IT specialist, how internal regulations are written about how samples are passed on, how what is controlled. Or doesn't he trust his former colleagues? That's so sad. I want to reiterate here that I believe the Czech police and that the case will be investigated as quickly as possible and the culprit will be apprehended, whoever it is, really whoever it is, because the merger of Agrofert here and their interests already seems to me from your opposition parties as a desperation. I don't think it's funny anymore. But if it were any other case, and none of the members of the Agrofert Group would have been involved, we wouldn't be discussing this kind of media massage. In conclusion, I just want to point out that let's remember what we're always talking about here. Let's let the police investigate. And to the very conclusions of the police, when they are known, I will be very happy to comment. And I'm not here to do the work of them, speculate, but express myself to the final conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u21	Thank you. I have here one factual remark by President Pekarová Adamová. Then President Bartošek came forward with priority rights. Really? From where? Oh, I'm sorry. I know you were pointing at me. I don't have you on my monitor. I'm sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u22	Thank you so much for giving me the floor now, because I would like to respond factually to the speech of the previous speaker, Mrs Fialová. And I would just like to say that the committees are, by their very nature, open. It is actually the way it is supposed to be in a democratic establishment. In order to allow the public to participate in committee meetings so that it can apply public control in this way and at the same time participate in committee meetings. We even approved on this committee so that guests could submit questions to the debate. I think Mrs. Fialová voted for that, too, if I'm not mistaken. So the committees are basically open. If my colleague Fialová had wanted the committee to be in a non-public regime, she would have had to say so explicitly, and she did not say so. It is not my fault that the Member does not know the Rules of Procedure. And I would like to say that I am very pleased that we have managed to organise this committee in this crisis, to prepare technical conditions so that interested parties can take part in the committee, who are interested in watching the environmental committee act. And for me, this transparency, and for the Pirates, is absolutely essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u23	Thank you. Really, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, then Mrs Fialová, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u24	As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I would like to confirm that from your mouth, through the President, the request for non-publicity of that point has not been made, but for the non-publicisation of the minutes, and that is the difference. I know you can see it at the moment that you were just misinterpreting your idea, but in that case, it's good to be able to prepare it and formulate it the way you intend it to be the result of what you imagine. That's the truth. It's a lesson for maybe next time. I understand we all make mistakes. On the other hand, that is why I voted against, and I would also vote against that point being a non-public one, because I believe that we cannot keep hiding behind the fact that there is an investigation going on here, and by discussing the situation, we are thwarting his investigation. I think he's speculative in Highness. And if you're actually accusing the rest of us here, or journalists, and, in general, the information that appears in public space, that it's just speculation so far, let's wait for the investigation, so you're actually only giving it another cause. That's the thing. That's one thing. And the second thing that I - and I think might be of interest to other colleagues who are not members of the Committee on the Environment - which touched me enormously at the meeting was that we were accused that if the culprit wasn't found, if he wasn't found, that's why we decided to negotiate at all. That's what I want to look back on, because you're giving great distrust of the impartiality of the whole process, and that those who are supposed to act maybe under pressure, any pressure, whether the debate that's being conducted here or in the media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u25	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mrs Fialová, then with priority rights, Minister. Or was it supposed to be factual? [[To Minister Brabco, who deals with gestures outside the microphone with the President.]] Okay, so we're gonna make it real, and maybe it'll fluently go into priority law. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u26	I'll be very quick with a point of fact. To President Balcarová through Mr President. Yes - perhaps by doing so also to a colleague named Adamová Pekarová, by your means - I may have been wrong to specify. But at this point, I have no choice but to defend myself. And maybe it's a lesson, I'm not saying it's not. But the way I wanted to deal with it off the microphones, I came to ask, I didn't like it very much. And maybe the other reactions were really driven by emotions that were actually caused by maybe misunderstood, misunderstanding. And to President Balcarová through Mr President. The fact that we vote on every committee that guests are present is our standard formula. And if you're going to introduce as new that there's gonna be an exception, I really don't like it. It is not your first error on the Committee of the Environment and violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm really going to turn to where I can with this question, let it all be investigated and see how it turns out. And in the case - and I'm saying it here publicly on the microphone - if I made a mistake, I didn't specify correctly, so here I'm making a public promise to publicly apologize to the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u27	Thank you. A real point, Mr. Environment Minister. Then the Minister withdraws. In that case, Mr. Bartošek's priority right is here, if I'm not mistaken. Mr. Chairman, priority rights? Mr. Chairman Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u28	I, Madame, only through the President, do not confuse matters. The committees are public in principle. Anyone who wants can come and take part in any committee can listen. Well, tell me that's not true. The vote is that he will appear as a guest and may ask questions. In the event that some material is actually under some kind of secrecy regime is discussed, the committee closes at that point, you are right, it is without the public presence, and then the guests are voted on to participate in the negotiations. I just wanted to make it clear that we're all talking about the same thing. This means that if there were people present on the committee who were not Members and only wanted to participate without asking questions, then from my point of view, just as the committee streamed out and could look at who was attached, it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Well, it's just for me to explain that we're both talking about the same thing. Many of the questions I wanted to ask have already been raised here, so I will shorten my speech. For me, it is essential that the culprit be punished for the fall, regardless of who he belongs to. Since there has been water poisoning and killing of life in the Bečva River, it is an unprecedented destruction of nature. If it was one thing, it would appear that it was a one-time mistake. But since even witnesses describe that subsequently chlorine smelled from the river, that means that whoever caused it must have been aware that it was a disaster that they were trying to cover up. There are many questions, Minister. And I'm telling you the truth, you can't talk about a lot of things because of an investigation, I can't argue with that. On the other hand, and now you're more of a matter of fact. You know, I understand that you're the Minister of the Environment, and when you go into nature to plant gophers or pearls, you take pictures of yourself and do your PR. I'm more concerned that in such a massive natural disaster that happened, when life was poisoned or killed in the river, you didn't come to see the place to find out what was going on. I found your reaction very delicate. That means, while when there's something to brag about, you don't forget the PR, and when you're dealing with unpleasant things, you can't see you there. What is important to me is that we have information, whether and to what extent the time interval at which the samples were taken, in particular I am interested in the samples of bentos in individual discharges, in what time frame and with which result. Whether camera tests have been carried out on all channel discharges including sampling and mapping, so-called Passportization of these channels. Whether those who have sewage treatment plants in their premises, whether their logs, cleaning technologies have been documented, and whether it has been verified that these data have not been tampered with. I am also interested in how it is possible that a number of fishermen who have been present and have witnessed this mortality, as well as at least from publicly available sources, as well as for example. writes the Referendum Diary that a number of Witnesses were only heard on the basis of an alert, and they wrote that some fishermen were present, and even though they were talking about it, they were not alerted. [[15.10 hours]] And I'm sorry that before the MP got off, I didn't see anyone attacking Agrofert here. It was first heard from you. Of course, there may be a lot of doubt and speculation, because that company belongs to the Prime Minister's trust fund. On the other hand, don't be surprised that, instead of asking, Minister, for this item to be included in the Chamber of Deputies to inform you actively about the disaster of this magnitude, so that, given that the speculations can be here, you yourself have informed the Members and, by means of the media, you have informed people how it is progressing and assured that you are protecting nature rather than your boss, I have to repeatedly seek and ask that this item be included in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. We have to keep stalling if it's right, wrong, when, and eventually it's Friday afternoon. I'm sorry. I expected you to be more proactive and inform the House yourself of your will. I'm sorry to be human.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u29	Thank you. Now priority law, Mr. Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u30	Thank you. I would, colleagues, have gathered a few things here, maybe there will be others, but I would like to show you some other things that have, in the meantime, jumped up a little bit when you ask me that. Well, first of all, I want to say that where we completely agree, I said it at the beginning, and it's not a cliché, and I say again, I'd be crazy, I'd be crazy, and believe me, I'm not, I'm not a fraud, I'm not covering for anyone, and I would never do that, whoever it is, because in the finals, it's always a matter of personal conscience and the consciousness of those people, whether we're in politics or not, believe me. You've known me for a few years. That insults me again. Especially from the folks, when you believe that there is something above you, that is, above all of us, so that you, my colleague, through you, can write on your twitters some pretty ugly suspicions and accusations, and again I am sorry, humanly, because you have no proof of that. None. And if you think anything, give me a criminal report. Have the police investigate. But don't make me a cheater, thief, don't make me a cover-up! Just like Mr Blaha. I said it well with a short one. At least I didn't screw up. So which one simply says - what did I cover, my colleague, by your means, Mr President? I didn't cover for anything, and I didn't cover for anyone, and I never did! I've never done it in that office to cover for someone from my own people to make things work out. I'm not just building my career on it, I'm building my whole life on it, let's just say my life's attitude, so that I don't get sick of sleeping or getting up. There. You don't have to believe me, some of you might not even believe it, but I just had to say it here. Humanly, I'm sorry. Politics is politics, we all agree on that. Sometimes we say things that maybe we're a little embarrassed about, and then we explain them to each other. But then it's always a little bit out of line. And I don't blame you at all for asking us, or for asking me some questions. And again, and that's the main thing, we're all in the same boat, so if I use this water metaphor in relation to Bečva, we're all in the same boat. And believe me, most of all, for the very reasons you've been talking about, in an effort not to trip somewhere to investigate. I have no idea - I answer a specific question from my colleague Pekarová Adamová. I simply cannot imagine, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, nor do I imagine that this will not be investigated. That just needs to be investigated. This must be where the culprit must be found, because otherwise there would be an aftertaste in society that someone could really cover it up. It just needs to be examined! On the other hand, I am neither the investigator, nor the prosecutor, nor the police president, nor the Home Secretary. We're not investigating it now either. That means that it's really passed on, and I firmly believe, I hope, and for us to do our best, for our resort, to really bring these things to an end, and the culprit has been punished. I just want to say, and I'm coming back now, if you don't mind, I'm going to respond to specific questions, because here, a whole bunch of you, you're asking me questions that I don't know. I mean, forgive me, but I'm gonna take it easy when we're talking about this and we're definitely still gonna deal with covid, so suddenly there's been a lot of epidemiologists. Now I feel like there's a lot of biochemists out there who would just break up theories about whether or not Professor Petřivalský is right. I really don't know. I'm just saying one thing. Mr. Petřivalský, if I'm not mistaken, began to comment on these hypotheses sometime around October 10. I think it worked out for Ekolista, the first article, sometimes I think October 10th. Everyone, but I have last spoken about this on 1 October, 1 October or 30 October. 9. And you know why I say that? Because at the time, it was based on some information that was available. Which the police had based on the investigation hypothesis. I really can't today, and it's neither my place, nor of course I'm gonna do it for the investigation, and I don't even have the expertise to talk about whether or not Professor Petřivalský is right about anything, or whether it seems weird or weird to me. But that's exactly what the Police of the Czech Republic must have entered in those reports. In those expert reports. In the samples. The Home Secretary himself said that the police have had hundreds of samples evaluated. This is also the confusion that Mr Blaha asked about the number of samples. Yeah, but you have to distinguish that, Mr Member, by your means, Mr President, that some samples were taken by inspection, those, if I am not mistaken, were about 60, I really don't know either. But there were a lot more samples because there were a number of subjects being taken there. The flood, the E.Z.S., the water management, the water supply and the sewerage of Vsetín, the police, and they all gave it to the connoisseur. So the expert should have at his disposal, of course, and the police have all the samples available from all these organizations, macrobentos, phytobentos, just what they had at their disposal, given to the police. Environmental inspection is just a splinter, she's not an investigator right now. It was just really run by the Water Authority, the Czech Inspection was one of the entities involved. And that's not alibi, that's a statement under the water law. That's how it is. And they gave it all to the police because once you know that, you know the criminal code or you've looked at it. And this is at the same time, my fellow Members, and the answer to your calls or questions, who put an embargo on this. Well, the police, because the police at the moment, and you can ask the police, the investigators, or the prosecutor, they've repeatedly spoken about it now, and I think that even the state's attorney is already very hard, that by the time the police take over, it's really a living file, so the police don't want anyone there to communicate anything else. And that was probably the only thing that bothered us. But because I don't want to put my people in a situation where they might say something out of some kind of ignorance about all these procedures, and then somebody starts blaming them for thwarting an investigation somewhere, I think we're gonna kidnap as MPs, we should know that, but not all these people, of course, just know it. That means they've gotten into media pressure that they're not used to at all. Because they're investigating hundreds of these water accidents or other accidents. Hundreds a year. Yes, this one's big. No doubt, big one. Serious, and it's a disaster. There's no need to discuss that at all, and no one's making it easy. But nobody's pressuring them, and all of a sudden, in this case, all the media, the cameras, just the inspection, they're all saying, "Tell me who it was! Who wasn't it? And so on. That's actually how it all came about. It wasn't a mess that they couldn't do it. They just got into a situation where it was actually being investigated on a live feed, basically. And I think there's something that I've been taking before the regional elections, that it was used, abused, just someone that there were billboards that poisoned Bečva. That's what I was defending myself against. You can't blame me for not taking it. But it's after the election, there might not be any more elections for a while, hopefully, and so please, if there's anything I can ask everyone for, let's leave it to the police and stop politicizing. Believe me, it would be the best thing we could do. [[15.20 hours]] Now, to the specific questions I can answer. But please understand that I certainly can't answer, I don't even know, I don't know the answer to whether Deza was supposed to or shouldn't have taken any samples. That's according to some of her standards she's got. Each business has it completely different. That's what deza has to explain. I'm certainly not Deza's defense attorney, just like none of those companies. She just has to answer this either in the media or -- and that's the big question. Mrs Pekarová Adamová says, Minister deza is no longer under investigation? My colleague, by your means, Mr President, I do not know. The police don't share it with me. The police today, I think, last announced - I think this is a fresh statement from the police - that they are investigating several scenarios, several hypotheses, several investigative theories. I don't know if they're investigating how many canals or discharges. I really don't have more information from the police than you do. I don't. And hopefully you won't be surprised. I don't think it would be normal if I had the information. That would mean I can see somewhere in the files. And I don't see any files, and they don't confide in me. That means a clear answer to your question, I don't know, colleague. I don't know. Really. It's not impossible, but I don't know. Expert opinion, yes, that was, I think, Mr Elfmark's question, if I'm right, Mr Elfmark's question. We have expert opinions... or I wouldn't call it expert opinions. We ordered studies from the Academy of Sciences, the Institute, I guess, vertebrates, and they've already started working on them. We ordered them just for the fishermen to facilitate their re-emergence, that is, the re-emergence procedure, because of course they say, we need to know what condition the bentos is in and what condition the total biotope of the river is in. That's what we ordered, that's what we're gonna pay for, the Department of the Environment, and that's probably where I think there's no problem with us publishing something like that. Except if the police didn't want it before. If the police don't ask for it and say no, give it to us as some kind of evidence. [[no]] If it's not blocked, I don't know at all, or I don't see any problem putting something like that out because it's ordered by the Ministry of the Environment or the Nature Agency, and it's going to pay the resort to fishermen. What's taking so long as a red thread? Well, again, I said it at the beginning. I'd love to know who did it 52 days ago. The Draoslovka lasted about eight days, but do you know why? Because there just wasn't any other way, and that Draslovka finally confessed to it 14 years ago. It just flowed into the river, and it was kind of green-blue coloring back then, so it was pretty well detected from where it was coming from, and that's why it was just shorter. He's here, and I think a few of you said that again, folks, and it's not true. It's not true and please don't say it. You're saying that the Czech environmental inspection already knew the cyanide on the 21st. Now I've checked again. The Fire Rescue Department reported that it was cyanide from their analysis, because the analyses were done, both by fish and others, by a number of subjects on Wednesday the 23rd night. It's traceable in monitoring. On the 21st, Monday you speak of, it was merely said that it was a fish poisoning, but no one knew what it was. And it wasn't known until Wednesday that it was cyanide. That's just proven. So it's not true that the inspection of the 21st, and now I was still communicating with my colleagues, because of course I didn't have the detail, but something didn't feel right there, and he and he say no, we had confirmation of cyanide to the 23rd based on those analyses, which means Wednesday of the 20th was suspected of some kind of poisoning, but of unknown origin. Just please, because you're not all lab pros, and neither am I, but even though I know a little bit about it, here's the idea, he and Mr. Benešík talked about it, but, of course, when it's some kind of assault, there's an army, her chemists, and they know it immediately. But here's the idea that there's gonna be a crash, someone's gonna come in, they're gonna hit something in the river, they're gonna have a vial, they're gonna have, of course, a mobile device that's gonna go through Mendělejevův's entire table right now, and they're gonna figure out what it is. That's not how it works. This is given to certified authorized labs that evaluate it, and it takes them two days. And you know why? Because then the evidence has to stand up in court. Because it ends up in court, I think it's obvious, either way, the case will probably end up in court, whether it's assessed under the Penal Code or under the Water Act or... He'll just end up in court, or I'll bet on it, and there's a need for the evidence to stand before that court, because one thing is accusations, charges, and the other is whether someone is really gonna condemn it on the basis of any evidence. That means this is something that's very important. And, of course, the accused, the defendant, will use every possibility of questioning the evidence. That's why it's so important. And it's not really that we'd just suspect today, let's say, six o'clock for cyanides, and seven o'clock would be done. It's just not like that. And you can, of course it's not a problem, then you can inform yourself about the specific laboratories. That means, once again, cyanides were available, about it being cyanide poisoning, on the 23rd Wednesday, because they were samples of the Fire Rescue Corps. I'm sure the twenty-first wasn't suspicious yet. If anyone had it. Just as much as there was talk of chlorine. But the chlorine, folks, began to speak again, according to our information, much later. I asked the inspectors, and they didn't say that anyone would tell them that there was chlorine smell or that someone would be burning their hands at that time, those days in the hit, and they didn't say that we didn't even have the information from the Fire Rescue Corps, which intervened really there, and they're pros about her, and they would be aware of chlorine. But the chlorine wasn't mentioned until much later, and believe me, if the information had been inspected or the Fire Rescue Corps, it would have dealt with chlorine in the first few days, but it wasn't the information. Please judge the information we gave them, in the horizon of when we were giving them, when those people just met there on Sunday by the river, where the fish died gradually, and they didn't know what the first days were and where it could have escaped, what substance it was, because there was a suspicion of flushing some pesticides from the fields at the beginning, then there were 21 subjects, all those discharges. Again, I'm saying that there's been some other speculation about some other variant, so please, let's not investigate here on live television in the House, we're not biochemists - I don't think Mr. Kalousek is a biochemist either, I think he's a chemist, he's not here right now, so he can't even interfere. But please don't ask me to comment on any hypothesis of any scientist. That's what the forensic experts are going to address, and they're going to deal with the principles, if this could happen, what the samples look like, what the hydrodynamics of the river flow, what the spread of the cyanide cloud is. These are all common police procedures in such cases. But I believe you'll probably understand that I'm not going to investigate this place, and I don't even know the vast majority of these things. And I don't even know why Deza acted the way she did, if it's standard, non-standard. That's what Deza has to say, whether he's gonna talk to the police or somewhere else. I don't really know who's investigating who. Okay, I'm coming to a conclusion. So for Mr. Blaha. No, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, I certainly did not cover anything, I was not trying to buy some time. I'm offended that you might even think that. But okay, we're politicians, I'll deal with it. It's not nice that you think that about me, but believe me, I didn't do anything like that. And I can swear that by all that is holy and dear to me. And I don't want to be too pathetic, but it's just that. The Embargo is definitely police. Just they - I say, already under the penal code - clearly said no, we do not want anyone to talk about it. And we ourselves were brought to the attention of the 30th time when we spoke about it, or 1. 10th, we were alerted by the police ourselves, they didn't like it, and then when they took over, they clearly said, "We're the only ones who are going to express ourselves." Then the police and the state's attorney confirmed it. From the point of view of the number of samples, I may have answered that, really all those things, I don't even have them, I don't have the information, all the police have them, certainly just like the things that concern the bentos. Legislative amendments. I've already talked about them here. Yes, in my opinion, it is clearly apparent, or it has also shown that an accident of this type, such a major accident, which then actually falls under the competence of the water law of a specific water authority, and the water authority at which it was created does not necessarily have to have the powers of capacity or expertise to do so. This is certainly important and we are really intensive about this, whether in cooperation with the regions, and I am certainly glad that the Olomouc Region joins or joins, that is, what is the relationship between the ORP, between the region from the point of view of the water authorities that so-called the disaster, which means they have to deal with the role played by the Fire Rescue Corps and so on as the crisis law can enter into it, because this has clearly shown that there is a need to learn lessons from this. [[15.30 hours]] Let us hope that such a disaster will not happen again for a long time, but in any case this is a lesson for me, as well as a matter of possible application of laws on environmental damage, I have already talked about it at the beginning, as well as a number of other things that we are currently discussing with the water catchment areas and with other colleagues. So I'm sorry if I haven't completely explained or answered everything, but I'm gonna be happy to do it in the context of the possibilities that are now kind of giving me the space, the investigation, I'm gonna do it over time, and believe it, and that I would end it, that I'm most sorry that there are some doubts about it, and it's in my best interest, I repeat, that as far as possible they should be scattered and that they should be scattered as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u31	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Blaha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u32	Minister, I would just like to set the record straight for what has been said here that if there were no doubts about the company at Agrofert, we wouldn't have let it go. I don't think that's true. None of us even claim that Deza is the source of the pollution. But just what would you do in our place in the event of such a major environmental disaster if only one of them was excluded from all those companies that could potentially poison the river at the outset? Moreover, her press secretary would argue that she does not work with cyanides, even though all publicly available information shows that she is working. And whether I think you're covering for you or not, I can and I don't have to. I just had to ask that question because I guess it had to come to my mind logically, because someone here is telling us that Agrofert doesn't belong to him and that he doesn't control him, someone is telling us that Deza doesn't work with cyanides, and of course you can also trace where you were employed before you became a minister, so your interest in this can also be imported. And I am very pleased that you have assured me that you have it differently, that you, of course, are proceeding in the interests of the Czech Republic and of all its citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u33	Thank you. The Minister also signed up with the facts. But you can also have a priority right, no one else logged in. Whatever.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u34	Thank you. Now, Mr Blaha, thank you for making one more point, but that will be a very short response. Mr President, this is exactly where the further confusion arose, because there was a Czech inspection, but not only that, it was the Czech Inspection Group, the Water Authority and the Moravia Flood, and they excluded the overwhelming majority from the local investigations from the 21 subjects at the beginning, but the journalists only asked about Deza, so he then came up with the wrong impression that it was called. Only Deza is voted out, but that's not true at all. In the end, there were actually only a few bodies left, and it was based on the local investigation that they just went through the exits, looked at the water, looked at the state of the pipeline, etc. But that doesn't mean anything, and to the next one, let's say the future, that the police aren't all concerned, because, of course, the police have the opportunity to re-examine all the scenarios. So there was a false impression that actually called. There's been some exclusion of one subject. Not at all. On the contrary, there was basically a large majority of the 21 at the beginning and it was limited before it was passed on to the police, somewhere. But that, I say again, has absolutely no effect on how the police are progressing, because she's moving on with all the investigative scenarios. Then I'll just explain it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u35	Thank you. I ask if anyone else in the general debate has the right to speak. Or does he? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate and we will proceed to the debate in detail. I have Mr Blaha's written application and Mr Benešík is reporting from the position. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u36	Thank you, Mr President, I am already very brief. As I said in the general debate, I am applying to these two motions for resolutions, so I am doing it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u37	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u38	I, Mr President, would like to read the resolutions as they came in and as we agreed with their plaintiffs on their order, because I believe that these resolutions are not negating themselves in any way, we were just setting out their order as we think they might be read. Wouldn't you agree?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u39	Yes, it's a great idea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u40	I'm going to repeat myself in part. I hope you can hang in there. So. Chamber of Deputies I. Notes that the ecological disaster on the Bečva River of 20 September 2020 caused by the leakage of the unidentified amount of cyanide caused by the poisoning and death of all living organisms at 38 kilometres of the river in the river has not yet been satisfactorily explained. In addition, on 27 October 2020, there was another leak of unknown chemicals. This event is not yet explained either; II. Calls on the Government to ensure a thorough examination of chemicals leaks from 20 September 2020 and 27 October 2020; Furthermore, overseeing the granting of exemplary fines to the culprits, including the obligation to pay the financial compensation for the damage caused; for another, the Chamber of Deputies submitted a concrete proposal for measures to prevent similar leakages of chemicals not only on the Bečva river, but on all streams in the Czech Republic; III. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to appear before the Chamber of Deputies within 30 days of today and to inform about the course of the investigation, changes and procedure in the case of poisoned Bečva. Two. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Environment Minister Richard Brabec to publish a methodology according to which samples and evidence are taken in the event of such accidents. And three. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec - or calls, I apologize, I am changing the verb of opinion as the Pirate Party has presented to me - calls on the Minister of the Environment to draw up and discuss a binding regulation to ensure a uniform approach to the investigation of accidents in the environment, from which the competences of the various authorities of the state administration and other stakeholders would result, and clear binding procedures governing the procedure for the investigation and transmission of information between all parties, including the keeping of records of all actions, so that the entire procedure can be evaluated, and this binding regulation can be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies within two months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u41	Thank you. I ask if anyone else wants to speak in detail. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there any interest in the final words for the plaintiff or the ministry? It's not like that. So I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. I heard a request for a check-out. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. [[There is not a sufficient number of Members in the Chamber.]] I'm declaring a break until 15.40 hours. We'll give our colleagues another chance if we can. I can hear the gong working properly. Okay, so we're gonna have a break in 15.40 hours and see what's next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u42	At this point, I must say that the Chamber of Deputies is not a quorum. There's another one coming, but I don't think that's gonna save us. Another logical procedure would be that I seem to interrupt this point indefinitely. We shall continue in accordance with the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs of Deputies. I think we could agree on a grémia where we're going to put the vote. If I have interrupted this point and the others have been eliminated, all conditions are met to end this meeting. I thank you all for your participation and shall we meet - yet Mr. Mr. Černohorský? One moment, if there's any objection to the procedure?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u43	No objection, Mr President. It's just that this is exactly what the KDU-ČSL said here that it would end this way by not being able to put up with this in the afternoon. Therefore, here several times - given that we are acting in half, even if the opposition is complete here, we will not give the over-half. So at this point, the pirát are all here in number 11, as we agreed to go to half the number. Have a nice trip home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u44	Maybe I wouldn't be in this for nothing -- well, even Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u45	Of course, I'm sorry we didn't do this today. I believe that we will negotiate this, and we will vote on the loaded resolutions. On behalf of the KDU-ČSL club, I can say that all five members of the KDU-ČSL were here to the end from the permitted number of half of the membership club. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u46	And now, definitely, Mrs... Really, I was about to close the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u47	I think it should also be said for us that the number of Members here - I do not know exactly for the ANO movement, but very thin lines are with the ČSSD and the Communist Party, so they are the ones who were not here today in that number until the end in order to make this point known. I wanted to say it mainly for the microphone and for the record for the future when someone was driving us for being guilty of failing to take this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u48	And Vice-President Filip has something to say, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not established a practice that ends on Friday at 14:00. And don't be mad at me, there was an agreement on Tuesday, and the agreement does not apply not because of the KSČM, so I do not understand Mrs Pekarová Adamová's statement. That's everyone's business. We can, of course, act until 19 o'clock if you want. We can, because it is a question of the Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the O.R.: There's nothing to talk about.]] But there's something about, of course, because these things are a matter of agreement, and the KSČM is not an entity that violates agreements that have been concluded on a grémium. It really wasn't us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u50	The day of the hearing even ends at 21.00 if there is interest. But I've assessed that the treaty will no longer be fulfilled, and it's my procedure of action to which you may object. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not here to object to your progress because we're in line. I can say that those who are interested and interested in who Members have been present in discussing such a crucial point as the poisoning of life in the Bečva river, so let them look at the last vote and there will be a glimpse of who has had their Members present in the hall. This isn't about whether or not we're supposed to act in 19 hours. This is about 50 per cent of the Members being here under the Rules of Procedure and the Agreement, and who is interested, let them look at members of the Communist Party, social democracy, movement YES, SPD, Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. On behalf of KDU-ČSL, I can say that we have had 50 per cent of our Members present during the entire meeting. Let the other voters see how their MPs are here and how many they have represented today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u52	Madam, only priority rights. Minister. I've already interrupted that point, and now I'm waiting for the meeting to end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u53	So the bags don't get heavy in your hands, so really just, co-workers, co-workers, conclusion. [[Members ready to leave]] I would hate to see it end - thank you very much, except for some personal things, for doing very good things. The discussion took place. I wouldn't want to leave the aftertaste at the end. I say for myself, whether we make a resolution today, tomorrow, or virtually. Probably not tomorrow, next week, so of course I'll keep you informed of the progress, in a month's time, every month, I can promise that here, whether on interpelations or otherwise. I'm sure we'll get to the resolution as well. So please don't leave us with the aftertaste that we haven't discussed anything. I think the debate was long, it was good, and we ended it. It's just a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u54	Vice-President Pikal with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u55	Thank you for the floor. I do not know if the Minister's speech has reopened the debate. I hope not. However, I believe that this is a properly convened proper meeting, which means that it should ideally continue the next week of the House meeting according to the timetable. I understand that there is another meeting prepared there, so I assume that we will then work out where we will place this meeting before the House's next week of meeting, or where this meeting will continue, so that we can vote this thing out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-007-503.u56	Thank you. The item has been interrupted, the debate has not been opened. I thank you all and finish the 62nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Goodbye.
