ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u1	70. Government bill on replacement maintenance for the careless child and on amendment of certain related laws (Constitutional maintenance law) /German press 898/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, who will take the floor after it is quiet in the Chamber. I'd like to ask everyone who wants to discuss anything with their colleagues to do in the lobby. Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the main parameters of the replacement maintenance. For replacement maintenance, it's a concept that's been discussed in public space for more or less 15 years, so replacement maintenance will be eligible if there's a execution, which means...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u3	So I'm going to ask here and at the bench of the government not to take turns as the Apostles and the other Members to calm down. If there's no peace, we won't discuss... I do not want to appoint any Members who stand in front of the bench. [[Repeatedly calling the Minister to Mr Blazek: Pavel.]] Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u4	Thank you, Mr President. There will be a claim for a replacement maintenance if the execution is carried out. This means that the maintenance will not be paid on the part of the mandatory parent for a longer period of time, and the other parent will try to enforce his right to maintenance properly. If, then, even the bailiff can't do his job, there will be replacement maintenance. The state is helping where law enforcement fails. [[She speaks loudly and strongly to draw attention to the noise in the hall.]] The application for replacement maintenance shall be submitted to the Labour Office. There, parents who are not paid child support, officials can help... fill in...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u5	Madam Secretary, I understand. I also don't understand why we are unable to keep calm as adults in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u6	[[He's laughing.]] No, they are, they're KSČM and YES. Out. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u7	There. Thank you. Well, maybe we'll do it by the third time and act. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u8	Thank you. But if the executor can't do his job, he'll be looking for a replacement nutritious. So the state helps where law enforcement fails. The application for replacement maintenance shall be submitted to the Labour Office. There the disabled parent will be helped by officials who will help him to fill out both the application for supplementary maintenance and the application for execution if the parent does not know what to do with it. [[17.30 hours]] The creation of model forms is part of a government resolution. The application shall be evaluated within a month at the latest and the replacement maintenance payment shall begin. This will be paid each month in a court-appointed amount, or if the maintenance is paid only partially, we will settle the fixed amount - this is a very important parameter. In any case, however, the maximum amount will be 3 000. Crowns a month. This border, 3,000. On a monthly basis, we have determined that 75 percent of maintenance obligations are up to this amount, but at the same time the most frequent amount of maintenance is at the level of CZK 2,000. This results from a recent analysis of the Ministry of Justice. According to the submitted proposal, the maintenance payout ends after two years, namely after 24 payouts, with the fact that every four months the non-payment of maintenance is demonstrated and any irregularity will actually be settled. Upon completion of the payment of the replacement maintenance, the State shall enforce the amount paid by the debtor through the Labour Office. This is a very important parameter of the whole design. I submit a replacement maintenance proposal with effect from July next year, i.e. in less than a year. We're assuming from our estimates that we're going to support about 24,000. children spending some 891 million on the state budget. Crowns. IT for this tool will cost 38 miles one time. CZK for development and then approximately maintenance 12 million. crowns a year. The administrative costs, i.e. additional jobs at the employment office, will cost about 100 million a year. Crowns. Replacement maintenance is a complex proposal, and I think that the 15-year debate demonstrates this very much, which is intended to address, to a certain extent, the unenforceability of the law. And once again, the complexity of this discussion is demonstrated by the individual length of the discussion, we have been dealing with this for 15 years. But what we are discussing today is, in my view, a great move forward and a good tool for helping singles and singles. It is also a good tool to control the entire situation surrounding the payment of maintenance. Today, it is the case that the court provides for maintenance, and if a mother or father does not give an execution or a criminal notice, which is very rare, no one knows whether and to what extent the maintenance is paid. This hope for singles or singles in the form of substitute maintenance is essentially emerging, and it will finally be an instrument for all mothers or dads to have, once again, actually a good tool to deal with the situation, as our legal order allows. At the same time, however, I point out that this is not a new dose, because what we put on as a state of replacement maintenance will be recovered from the debtor. And I'm a great advocate of a truly radical attitude towards alimony payers. I think it should be normal today to take responsibility for your child, that is, to pay for it so called. maintenance or alimony. I myself would go a very radical way, from community service to the seizure of fishing tickets, weapons licenses, but also a ban on hockey or football stadiums. Let's see if we can get some support for this. In any case, I think it must be normal to pay and bear responsibility for their children and maintenance must not be a means of revenge. This means, therefore, from this law we should be promising not only acute financial assistance for singles and singles, but also clarification of the whole system and payment of maintenance. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the whole proposal is linked to the basic idea: paying maintenance is normal, it is normal to bear responsibility for your children. Unfortunately, today this basic idea is disappearing from the whole society, which is why we are coming up with this proposal. If someone doesn't pay on their children, as the court has determined, the solution is execution. Where the execution does not help - and I remind you that non-payment of maintenance is the most common crime in the Czech Republic - so where the execution does not help, replacement maintenance will take place. It's ordinary human decency. It's a sign of maturity to pay child support. The state should be radical to the bad guys. And I'd like the singles and singles to have a stand-up from the state. We can have a debate here about how to choose a partner... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] We can have debates here about how to choose a partner, but alternative maintenance solves to some extent the inevitability of the law and is intended to help children. Those kids aren't responsible for anything. We're guessing it'll help 24,000. children a year. And once again, I think helping children to have a fair chance in life is a matter of state. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to ask you to support the Act on supplementary maintenance, to which our government has committed, among other things, in the Government's programming declaration and for which we have been waiting for a long 15 years. And I am very happy that this bill has passed unanimously to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u9	Thank you, too. And I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has introduced you to the House's press on the amendment to the Act on supplementary maintenance. I would just like to remind all Members who certainly know that this amendment is here in the third edition, because we have 118 in the Chamber of Deputies and 126 in the ČSSD pen, where there is also a proposal for a replacement maintenance amendment, so this is the third version that has been approved by the Government. Like the secretary said, it's... Or I think it's an uninsured social benefit. Madam Secretary says it's not going to come back to us. But as we know from the statistics, the return is between 5 and 10 percent. This is meant to be for persons who do not comply with maintenance obligations or persons who are not subject to maintenance obligations. It should be a maximum of 3,000. And there is a limited period of 24 months or, if necessary, an end to this child's carelessness benefit. I don't think I'm gonna say any more because the secretary told me everything. And that's it for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u11	Thank you. Just pointing out that I have two factual points here, but since the debate is not open, I am erasing them. And at this point, I am opening up a general debate in which I have Mr Jan Bauer signed up, and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u12	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to introduce you to the opinion of the Citizen's Democratic Party MEP on the proposed Act on supplementary maintenance. As in the past with the parliamentary proposals that have already been mentioned here today, the citizens' democrats will not support the concept of a substitute maintenance. I'd like to explain why. In our opinion, the state cannot and should not substitute the responsibility of parents. Even those who are currently paying for it will stop paying for alimony at the moment when the state will pay for maintenance. The proposal introduces a new, basically mandatory title into the social system with significant implications for the state budget. Moreover, their amount is determined only by a rough estimate, which can in fact vary considerably according to upside experience. I'm warning you, up. [[17.40 hours]] If the current Minister of Finance for the ANO Alena Schillerová movement is listening to me now, he may remember that these exact terms - I did not quote myself - but it was precisely these arguments that the Ministry of Finance rejected last autumn's initial version of the proposal for backup maintenance. That's what the Treasury Secretary said. And I deliberately borrowed those words and quoted them without change. Firstly, I fully agree with them, and secondly, I would like to ask the Minister by this means - I assume he is listening to me somewhere behind the scenes - what has changed since then on the proposal that you, as Minister responsible for state finances, have given this proposal the green light. Perhaps, Madam Secretary of Finance, you will argue that today's version differs significantly from the original version. Yes, if I count correctly, the material has been redesigned a total of five times. Some points have fallen, others have been added, but the principle of replacement maintenance remains the same. The government by law tells citizens and taxpayers that from now on, alongside other state spending, they will also be composed of the debts of child abusers and irresponsible parents. Indeed, this is not a temporary aid, as has been said here, but a new, genuine social benefit. In the end, the law says that in the current version hard and without freaking out. And here I have to thank you for the honesty, and I'm very, very sorry. The petitioners don't even hide with it, they admit it's a new social benefit. If we accept this principle today, there is a question of what and who the taxpayers will be putting themselves on next. I believe that the government should move its energy elsewhere. Instead of inventing new social benefits, the government should finally keep the promise and should immediately make the system of benefits that already exists more effective and simpler, the existing one. It is currently robust, complex and inconspicuous. You all know him. But it is in it that we should look for answers on how to help mothers or parents in individual cases who are in financial distress and need to hold temporarily. But so far, the government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have not - I warn you, brought any - a comprehensive revision of the batch system. Instead, they propose to introduce a completely new, very controversial and expensive levy in terms of costs. The benefit is disputed in my opinion and legally, because the state will substitute maintenance into private relations and force others to sponsor it. I confess to myself that, in spite of my quite strong opinion from the beginning, which many of you know, I have had a number of discussions in recent months and have tried to perceive the views of the other party. And it is interesting that even from my constituents, for example, in the South Bohemia Region, I have often heard the opinion that replacement maintenance is not ideal and that they do not like the idea of paying the debts of irresponsible parents, but that, in the end, it is the state that has more resources than singles to step on debtors. So why don't we just put it in place? And I would even agree with that argument, and maybe I could at least turn my mind around a little bit or break it. However, this should not be included in the related documents and in the explanatory memorandum in the expected return on debt recovery. And just listen here - it's expected to be a maximum of 10 percent. At least 10 percent will be recovered. It turns out that the state is not a strong player in this area either, and in principle from the beginning it is certain that the cost of a new social benefit will go far beyond the benefits and the sense of the whole adjustment. Some information on economic arguments. It is economic arguments that play another important role in our negative opinion on the law. We are all here to see how we are heading towards the huge state budget deficit and how important it is to consider new spending by the state. The costs of payment of advance maintenance are estimated at more than CZK 860 million only in the first year, taking into account the advance maintenance provided up to the maximum statutory amount. The costs of administration and the new administrative machinery will exceed 115 million crowns. The total cost of the expected performance will thus be close to around one billion in the first year. Not to mention tens of millions of crowns for the development and operation of a new application program and the costs of employment offices, which, among other things, the government wants to make debt collectors. These aren't my estimates, they're numbers and information from the explanatory statement. Here I have to ask myself a heretic question: Wouldn't it be more efficient and cheaper for the budget to distribute the money to the mothers concerned? Really, hand it out straight. Moreover, as I have read in the explanatory memorandum, the government is proposing a substitute maintenance without drawing on the exact figures and ideas of the number of children against whom the maintenance obligation is not fulfilled. Currently, even data on partial performance or non-compliance with maintenance obligations are not monitored. These costs may therefore be lower, but are likely to be significantly higher. I want to say the important thing at the very end. No one doubts that a number of parents who have remained on their own and cannot rely on their former partners may be in fatal existential problems and that such families need to be helped. However, the first fundamental step that was to prevent the presentation of this bill was to make the process in which the outstanding alimony is enforced more effective. Again, I am based on the promises of this government, which have promised such measures many times in the past. And she even promised that the Ministry of Justice would introduce him before the Act on Replacement, Originally Advanced, Maintenance was introduced. I don't know about any such measures, but maybe you know them, let alone their evaluation. We only know from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, only some measures are being prepared. I would therefore like to conclude by recalling my question to Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and by adding one more question to Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and one question to Minister of Justice Benešová. What are the specific measures in preparation? That's what I'd really like to know. And when and in what form will they be presented? Dear ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to make a motion to reject this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u13	Thank you. There are four factual points. First is Mr. Jiří Bláha, Mr. Milan Brázdil, Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček and Mr. Ondřej Veselý. Then Mrs Pekarová Adamová will speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to judge whether we need this dose from the state or not. I would just like to pause over the costs associated with the operation and acquisition of the system in question. I don't know if I overheard, but running $100 million for $24,000 seems a little bit beyond what it should be... If we divide it, it's 4,600 per mom just running the system. It's unbelievable for me. It's like a clerk sitting somewhere, one for every mommy, and he gets $4,600 out of it. I just think that this is going to go a lot cheaper, and I'd like to ask all the software companies if they would call the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and not offer their help to make it all cheaper. Because nowadays after coronavirus, believe me, we're all gonna need to save money. What we're saying here is we're gonna invest, we're gonna make money, we're gonna make it through everything, don't believe it, we just can't make it through it. We are really going to have to think about every crown, and that is why we should start with what we are planning for the future. And the acquisition of this software seems to me to be incomparable to the cars we said - half a billion is too much, but how many cars. And for 24,000 moms, do your own math, if it's not a little off the hook. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u15	Thank you. Mr. Milan Brázdil and his two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u16	Yes, my two minutes. Thank you in two minutes. I overheard, Madam Secretary, and I don't have to use the state to help where law enforcement fails. So that means we're canceling the state. In fact, the state can't enforce itself through the courts and so on. But anyway, we're gonna give these people money, if the mother doesn't pay her father's money, then the state will pay for it, and then you said she was gonna enforce it. But he can't do it, you said it. The state can't enforce, and so we'll substitute that we don't have a state that can enforce law. It's a perpetuum mobile. This can't be, this isn't how it works. There's just something wrong here. Either we have a bad state, or we have bad judgments, or we have something wrong, but we just can't. It's not gonna work out. This is not a solution to the problem that a mother doesn't pay her father to take care of a child. I've always taken good care of my kids, it's my responsibility, but this is where the state and enforcement of the law fail. That's a good find, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u17	Member Zdeněk Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also allow myself to respond to the Minister's opening remarks. If I listened well to you, you said the crime of neglecting compulsory nutrition was the most common crime. I don't know who's preparing these files for you, but it's absolute nonsense. Just look at the police statistics on the website of the Police of the Czech Republic, news for the public and statistics, now I have opened it. Section 196 - Neglect of compulsory nutrition. In 2019 10 176 criminal offences registered, explained 78,4 %. For example, such a crime was committed by a 37-year-old - obstruction of the execution of an official decision, 12 158 acts were committed. But the most common crime in the Czech Republic is theft. Two hundred and five - theft, and if I take theft by burglary, theft by burglary 22 161 acts, theft by so-called simple 59 850 acts. So, uh, correct the evidence they've prepared for you. Neglecting compulsory nutrition is not the most common crime in our country, and the clarification of 78,4% also speaks of something. Mr Brázdil through Mr President. Milan, it's all about the enforcement of the law. Madam Secretary mentioned the other options. And we are also in the past, in that past period we have made it possible to suspend the driver's licenses even for those who are under 18 - those children over 18 years old who prepare for their future jobs by day study, that is, up to 26 years of age. But the secretary mentioned - so let's take away their fishing ticket, take away their weapons license, take away any of the toys they have, let them do their duty to their children first. Kids can do it, but they don't pay for it. But, of course, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u19	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Ondřej Veselý, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to my colleague Bauer through you, even if I pick up where my previous speaker ended up. It's actually the easiest thing to do today to enforce maintenance. He already mentioned my previous speaker that there's, for example, the issue of a driving licence, which you don't have anywhere else. There is also a possibility to enforce for the future, which is also unusual, which means the benefits that are yet to be incurred. But if someone doesn't want to pay, and because we don't have a debtor's prison, we just can't get him to pay. And not paying maintenance is even a criminal offence, which means that it is also a criminal offence, which means that the enforcement of maintenance is a much simpler thing from the point of view of law, and it still doesn't work. Of course, executions are not self-preservable, we all know that there are claims that cannot be recovered for various reasons. What is important to me, however, and that is why I support this proposal, is that it is simply those people who are in such a situation, and let's face it, that mothers are more often than fathers, so they simply have a lot of worries in order to somehow secure the family, and of course, very often they don't even have a minimum legal education and awareness. They just can't handle it. It's common practice from the employment authorities, maybe we all know it to get at least a dose, so they'll send them to the police - file a criminal complaint against the father of your child. Maybe she's going there desperately, but she doesn't have time to deal with it. The criminal record isn't gonna help her, she's not gonna get the money. So just so we know, it's really for the kids. I agree with the arguments that were made here, maybe she chose the wrong partner and all that, but it's all about the kids. And they're not really responsible for their parents. So let's not say there's any way to simplify it. We can add other things that we can tighten the screws with - fishing tickets, entry to matches, anything, but I don't think it's gonna get much better, because those people who don't even pay alimony through the current system aren't gonna make it do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u21	Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u22	Colleagues, colleagues, I would just like to propose - perhaps it would be cheaper if we got legal offices that would help these mothers, so that they would have that awareness. This means that if there's a case that mom doesn't know what to do, and she doesn't know where to turn so that we can have offices within the state where that mom can turn, and maybe we can stop her from being 24,000 moms, but it'll only take 10,000 or 5,000 of them, maybe only 500 of them. I believe it's extremely hard to get someone to pay. But all the more responsible we should be, and that is why we should prepare those new mother-in-laws well in schools to choose their partners well and to approach the parenthood and all the things that they are - yes, we can laugh about that, Madam Secretary, but we know very well that school often fails in these matters. And just as it was normal in my day that when a woman got pregnant, a man automatically entered into marriage. Today it's something extra, something that's wrong. Today we're looking for those fathers, some of them taking advantage of that they won't actually turn them in so they can get more support, etc., etc. We already have social benefits that nobody knows about it anymore, only those who want to abuse it know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u23	Thank you. So let's do a recap. There are four more factual points. The first point is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mrs Hana Aulická, Mr Roman Onderka, Mrs Helena Válková, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u24	Thank you again. I would totally let women and men choose their partners, and I wouldn't completely interfere with that, because there are probably different roles than education and education. So I guess not. But to my speaker, Mr Veselý, through Mr President. You know, the driver's licenses that can be suspended today, so the effect is about three-quarters of the bad guys. I think Professor Válková may know the number more, because we did some seminars here on this subject, but three quarters of people will decide whether to have a suspended driver's license or whether to fulfill their maintenance obligations. But unfortunately, with the driver's licenses, they can't be stopped by people who take that license for a living, or show that they're going to work with it, and there's no other way to do it. So let's find something else. Let's find something else that'll hurt them if they lose it. For some, it may be, as we mentioned, a gun license, for some it may be a fishing license. For some, it could be the prohibition on entering a culturally social or other event, which means the stadium won't go. But I guess there's something you could find, of course it would have to be individual, but the probationary mediation service would probably be able to handle it so that it can be done. Then, of course, it's about the willingness of the courts to do the same to us. But the solution would be here in some way. But as I was saying, I'm glad you gave a new name that it's a replacement maintenance proposal because you originally proposed backup maintenance, so that's our original proposal, which we submitted as a KSČM. We're ready to discuss it, and we'll definitely figure it out in the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u25	Thank you. Ms Hana Aulická will speak with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I, Mr President, will also respond to my colleague Bláha. Because I may understand that you are dealing with the costs set out in this law presented by Minister Maláčová. Anyway, I need to talk about how you're a complete ignorance of practice, situation and state, whether you like it or not, because what you're talking about here is simply that you can't respond to the current situation at all. [[18.00 hours]] I think that even those law firms that are now - and are unpaid - that exist today could, and run most of them by nonprofit companies, tell the stories and history that are going on between partners and how to enforce maintenance and how partners who don't want to pay simply invent a lot of reasons, and often their employers do. So I'd like to hear things going on here, according to practice, and not just some fantasy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u27	Thank you. Mr Roman Onderka, with a point of fact. Mrs Helena Válková and Mr Jiří Bláha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in discussing this press, we should be aware of one crucial thing. We've been talking about our father and mother all along. The ones who don't pay alimony. But the maintenance doesn't belong to my father, and it doesn't belong to my mother. The nourishment belongs to the child. Ninety percent of a teenage child! And this is where we need to realize the essentials. Stop, help, secure, or pay! I'm sorry, but this is my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u29	Mrs Helena Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will continue fluently, because here we forget a little bit about the child's best interest. And I can have a lot of comments on this proposal for a current substitute maintenance, but I must support it in the child's best interest. Because it's about getting the baby as quickly as possible, without any complications, whether legal, technical, or even such that the partner relationship ends up in court, if it still lasts, and sometimes it can end in a criminal trial, but the child has to get what he's entitled to in time. And here, in my opinion and conviction, the court is doing its duty by this draft law, although we will certainly be able to further refine it or specify it so that it is better formulated in some provisions and does not raise unnecessary interpretation problems. I definitely think that we should not forget about the child, even when we vote on whether we let him go or not for second reading. This should be the main criterion of our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u31	Thank you. Member Jiří Bláha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u32	Dear colleagues, I'm glad someone's throwing me the fact that I don't know where it's coming from. I work with these people every day, every day I'm with people who make up people who don't want to come to work who don't want to pay their debts. And I keep thinking to myself, what - and what did it say here - do we have that state? Why do we have a full court agenda, what do we have Prison Service for? I mean, that's a felony. If someone doesn't pay for x's maintenance, that's a felony! Why isn't this guy in jail and clearly coming out of that prison isn't that nutritious mommy? Or your father, it doesn't matter. Is it about the fact that we've introduced laws here that are benevolent to anyone who cheats, who doesn't do anything, and then we're dealing here, sticking to the consequences? And first of all, I was talking about the costs of administration. And that seems totally inappropriate and completely out of place to pay a hundred million a year for operating or for 24,000 moms managing the system. For me, if you have spoken, through the President, my colleague, about this, you really do not know the figures to be bought for a hundred million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u33	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus and his factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u34	Hello. I'd respond to honored colleagues. I think the arguments are at the heart of two. One is that I pay for my kids, I like to do it, and I won't even say how much because I'm a populist. And I don't understand why I should still pay for the gentleman who doesn't. That's one logic I'm missing. And the other one. Unfortunately, there are plenty of dads in the world who get drunk in a pub every night and don't even read a fairy tale to their kids. So, again, the solution is that the Minister will come and introduce some 200 million-dollar state-reading service in a registry, and that's what he's gonna do? There are a lot of people who don't want to work at all. So we're headed back to some universal social benefit? I think so, I've read it in your materials. That's not the way that leads to better company either. So you're kicking your lap in here and chasing down some pre-election populist points, but it's just all shy and wrong. This is not the solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u35	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová will speak with priority, and Minister Maláčová will prepare herself. Madam Secretary's canceling. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u36	Thank you for the floor. Sometimes I wonder if it's easier to sign up with a factual remark. But I have endured, and I can finally comment on this bumpy subject. But much has already been said here. Even the TOP 09 disagrees with the introduction of a new social benefit, because let's say a few specific numbers. We already have here today within the current budgets, and I am really looking at those that were before the coronation, in the state's spending of roughly plus minus 43 percent on the social area. If I'm not mistaken, we're between 43 and 44 percent, which on the expenditure page is spending on the social area. Of course, it includes pension expenditure, which is the largest item. But our social welfare system, which is tens together, is already quite robust. And as part of the material in the explanatory memorandum, we all see that today, if a single family finds itself, i.e. parent who has an obligation alone to support children, respectively. He also has the other one's duty, but he remains on his own, to be exact, so if he has any difficult situation, then he can apply for existing social benefits and unpaid maintenance is not included in his admission, in his claim. That's what I think needs to be mentioned here. And like colleagues who point out that the state of enforcement is failing here, I will add to that the area of social benefits. What do I think is a completely logical approach that we should certainly choose first? To look at the social system as it is set up today, and to see why the massive platform of benefits we already have is not enough. Why isn't he helping families who don't get maintenance from the debtor, why isn't he helping enough today? In that case, we would evaluate how the system works, virtually. it does not work for these particular families, and we should seek redress within the social welfare system. This is how I think we should approach logically. The government has decided to extend the network that exists here to another social benefit, and it has decided to create a brand-new instrument. But the government itself condemns the state, namely itself, in the materials we have at our disposal, from failing to deal adequately with enforcement. Let us remember that, in the last term of the election, the debate here over - at that time it was called backed-up maintenance, but the principle is the same - the material has already been here, it has been lying, and in this the government has estimated 5% of the enforcement from its side back. This means that if they pay on doses, it backs up maintenance, so that it will be able to get only 5% of it back. In this material that we have on the table today, the number has already been raised to ten. So 10 percent recovery could be based on the current estimate. So if we're going to do this for another couple of years, I believe that this number is going to be 30 percent, because obviously we're shooting a lot from the side in this one, and it's not supported by a specific reason why a few years ago, when the Social Democratic Minister, Mrs Marksová in particular, was also here, we're assuming a recovery of 5%, and today we're assuming 10 percent. [[18.10 hours]] So what changed in the state's approach to enforcement? So I don't remember dealing with anything here that already sounded like ideas, whether it's confiscating not only driver's licenses, which already works and works quite well as a scare today, but that we might have proposals here that will address this area. The Minister of Justice isn't even here, so she rarely comes here, it's more like an exception when she's here with us, but I think she should listen to the debate with that law. And the Minister of Justice is responsible today for how the state in this area is and is not successful. And it just isn't successful, which is actually illustrated by this bill proposal. And making excuses for the fact that it's been here for 15 years and that we've been dealing with this area for too long, and then not saying that for seven years, two parties have been ruling the government together, one of which has the Ministry of Justice all along, so it's just a cover-up to the fact that you just can't agree on specific, clear things in the coalition that could help in that area and that would move the practice. So I think the whole issue is on this plane. That means look at the recovery. I completely agree that parents are primarily responsible for their children. Parents are the ones who are supposed to put their children above all else, even in a situation where they are simply doing less. I cannot imagine, therefore, that I would first prefer something for my needs, my actually need, and then sometimes another priority in a row had her own child. I think that's how most parents do it. Thus, the vast majority of parents are responsible for their children, and those who are not, so we want to throw the burden from their backs to the large part of the parents who are responsible. And I know that we're just gonna hear here that we're insensitive, unsocial, because we don't want to help those kids, that the rhetoric is already being set up here. But I want to say no in advance, because our goal is precisely to get to those children what belongs to them so that they have all their needs covered, but to simply fulfill that obligation, whoever has it primarily, and that is the parent. And there's got to be a state that's got to pull all its power, and there's just nothing going on here for years. So if the government is really serious about wanting to enforce better, it is supposed to come up with proposals with backup or replacement maintenance, how specifically, but indeed specifically, it will address this area. But it doesn't come up with that, there's no such thing as a priority here, and I don't expect anything to happen to us at all until the end of this parliamentary term. That's the thing. And here you can see how the government is thinking at all. The government is only wondering where to find another way to redistribute money, how to pin duty on someone else, and not enough officials to take care of it yet. The expenses to be paid by the state for this administration are actually quite high. So if we do this by the material presented by the Ministry in the explanatory report, it's almost 13, or even more than 13 percent planned to spend the benefit itself, then it's just the administration of this benefit itself, the new system, the new people, we're just gonna swell up again, the swelling state. Let us bear in mind that now, after the weeks we've been here and what we still haven't done, the coronar crisis, and we're about to see the effects, so I think that 43 percent of the state's budget for social spending is far from being so easy to keep up that the cost of the state will rise to the unemployed, which it will simply increase once the state's support with the help of the standard instruments that we use, as a cursarbeit, will simply be witnessed in a few months. It's only a matter of time if we push it a quarter further, or if we're even more generous and another six months away, but one day the boomerang will come back, and here it will manifest itself in the economy. And now we're dealing with a half-billion-dollar budget deficit, and tomorrow we should be dealing with it specifically, and now you're actually figuring out where to save more spending in that state budget, too. So please let us look at the savings options too, because otherwise the army of civil servants and our welfare state are always swelling here, but we are not going anywhere where the children we support with this will take on the repayment of these debts. So I would like us to look primarily at the debt recovery page, so that the government here in this area will strain all its forces, present a specific account of what it has done, what concrete steps are and what their success is, and then we have to figure out that we have some gaps here in the social welfare system, and improve those gaps, but not by inventing a new social welfare. And it's not that we refuse to help those families who are burdened, and the children who get into it uninhibited, but we see the help and the solution right here in these two things. This means improving the social system existing and, at the same time, hand in hand with the solution at the Ministry of Justice in enforcement. At the same time, I cannot forget the last area, which I think is extremely important and is mentioned very marginally in the materials of the explanatory report, and that is prevention. Many certainly also in their surroundings, perhaps even more distant surroundings, we just heard about such cases of family divorces and where the child is the subject of a dispute between parents and where the maintenance works as leverage on the other, whether it is the case that other accounts are being settled there, or it is that - I will give an example of what I have actually seen more than once in my social practice. For example, one parent has custody of the child and the other spends only once every two weeks of weekends with him, and so if the hour of handing the child over is not properly observed, the one who spends only weekends, which is usually the father, but it can be the opposite, of course, so he deals with his former partner or partner through the fact that he no longer sends regularly maintenance or sends in full, and he tries various such tricks on his former partner or partner. This is often the reason that this maintenance is not paid, and then there is a need for payment, only when there is really some major sanctions in the form of execution, etc. I don't think these cases are gonna help, either, but there would be a lot more prevention in divorce proceedings as such. And there is a Cochemian practice that is already being used in some courts today, but unfortunately its introduction into practice is very delicate and slow and is not common in many courts, but only in a minority of courts. And I think this should be a priority, too. We should look at the system, or the problem, in a broader context, and we should look for ways to handle our accounts through children and not pay maintenance. So looking ahead at the whole system, that's how the approach is supposed to be in my opinion, and I'm afraid that's the easiest thing to do -- think of a new social benefit, because it takes time, unfortunately, it takes a lot of work to do, but it hasn't been done here, and when it's done, then let's talk about a few dozen or hundreds of cases that don't work on it, and then there's a sense to think about something new in the form of a new social benefit. [[18.20 hours]] Now we haven't come this way and jumped right over and we're trying to solve this problem differently, which is why we can't agree with it, and we want it to help by insulting the long journey, or the path that would bring the desired effect, but it wouldn't throw the burden on someone else, on all taxpayers. So that's the approach we've chosen and we're holding. Please, let's not go into this debate about choosing partners, I think it's bad for the debate. [[With a smile.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u37	Thank you, too. Next in line is Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková, Mrs Golasowská will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Members, I did first, and I was very patient with factual comments, I will allow some to be answered and then I will be a little more general, because we are at first reading. Of course, I want to support this bill and I want to say heureka, we finally have a government proposal on our table. First, then, through Mr President, it is only a reply to what has been said here, above all, from the representatives of the right, the ODS and the TOP 09. You know, I guess I was pretty naive when I thought that society, the state should support children in all the ways that it can, because if society wants to survive, it just can't be without children. And now I'm listening to everything else, a million six reservations, why don't we take care of the kids? There were lines that we were supposed to deal with more law enforcement. Well, of course, but until we figure this out, and I don't know why it hasn't been solved yet, those kids will grow up. And these kids are eating now, those kids need to support their activities. Mothers who remain alone say that they do not have the ability to buy vegetables and fruit for their children. Those are really stories that are very and very sad. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] Both of them, both Mr Bauer and Mrs Adamová, were talking about a social benefit that they were rejecting. We reject that too - now I speak for social democracy. That is why it is a substitute maintenance, which is why it was backed up by maintenance in our parliamentary proposal, because it is also built in this government proposal, as it was in the MP, so that the state takes care of the child, the state will give the child money for the debtor, so that the children will not miss it, but then he will recover it. And if there was an appeal that the state should take some forceful steps to pay for maintenance, then I think that's a hell of a step if it becomes owed maintenance not by debt to its own child, which probably doesn't give a damn about the mandatory parent, but becomes a debt to the state. And that's the joke, that's the point. By the way, the executors reported 20 percent of enforcement, and the Ministry was very careful in the previous proposals, and the enforcement was lower. But the fact is, once it becomes a debt to the state, it will be different. And then there's one more important thing to remember. After all, and the singles say that, there can be no one who wouldn't be able to pay the maintenance fee, because the amount is set by the court, and the court can't impose an obligation on someone who can't do it. And if he can't do it, he's supposed to go back to court, and the court will fix it. So the representatives of the singles club say that if there's a maintenance deposit, then the mandatory parent just has what it takes. And the state should try to get the kids the money, too, and they need to get it now. I therefore very and very much welcome this government proposal, because perhaps, if it is presented as a government proposal, it has a chance of success. Very, very please, let's let this proposal through first reading, let's let it go to second reading, certainly we are able, we are willing to talk about making it as effective as possible to make it the best possible. But once again, I point out and appeal to you, it's about the children, let's take care of the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u39	Thank you. I will read two apologies: Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologizes for today's meeting from 18 to 19 o'clock for work reasons and Mr Jaroslav Dvořák from 7. 7. to 10. 7. from the beginning of the hearing to the end of all the days of the proceedings due to the illness. The next will be Mrs Golasowská, and Mrs Aulická will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot has been said here, so I'll try briefly. A serious colleague, colleagues, the issue of backed-up maintenance is complex and has many aspects. In addition to specific families of mothers of children who are at risk without nutritious distress, poverty and poverty, a broader context should also be taken into account. These include the fact that any measure of the kind of backed-up maintenance can, in fact, generally reduce the motivation to work to preserve relationships, to overcome parent relationships. Naturally, it is necessary to distinguish between specific cases, but the general decision to provide back-up maintenance can strengthen people's already little responsibility to take coexistence, marriage and family seriously and with consequences such as the responsibility for the children's exit, when the economic component is one of the basic functions of the family. A serious colleague, colleagues, KDU-ČSL supports the interests of the child, is on the side of those who cannot help themselves. However, this proposal requires certainly a broader debate, which I expect for both the Committee on Social Policy and the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, if the proposal is sent to second reading. I would still like to comment here on what has already been said by my colleagues, and that is enforcement, responsibility and prevention. I am sorry that the Minister of Justice is not here at the moment, because I would like very much to comment on what the Ministry of Justice is actually preparing on the issue of enforcement, or on what measures it is preparing to make the enforcement really greater than the 10, 15 or 20 percent, because I think we are all interested in this. And then a few more words to prevent it. My colleague mentioned Cochem's practice here, and I would also mention the preventive service for families with children, which are saxons, social activation services, and I would appeal to the Minister here if, when the budget is discussed in autumn, these social prevention services were supported, and perhaps even more so than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u41	Thank you, too. And the next will be Mrs Hana Aulická, who I hereby give the floor to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to be brief, too, because I think you're all pushing the time, especially with your eyes. Anyway, I would like to comment on this proposal. I have to say, we have almost three years here as well as our proposal for replacement maintenance. And we have waited a long time, or we have waited for a government proposal, which was constantly promised by Minister Maláčová, and that is why our proposal, which we admit, is not technically perfect. On the other hand, we are more or less convinced that we could have had this topic long ago and we could have already helped families or virtually. especially children who need it. But since there was no agreement between the coalition, it was expected for almost three years. So I would just point out that I am very sorry about this very activity. I must say that the final result of this coalition agreement, I would say, is not a good one. And I have to say it from many directions, because we may be short of a ceiling behind the KSČM. This means that anybody can ask for this replacement maintenance, even if their income is high, even if his income is low. And we believe that there is a need for help. But you need to help where you really need help. Why am I saying this and pointing it out? The Minister often argues to me what is the limit for us, what is the limit of need for us. But I'm dealing with a situation that I'm almost practically dealing with every day, and that's that it doesn't really matter what parents divorced or don't communicate with each other, or one doesn't pay whether it's parents who are socially weak or parents who have enough income or above average income. Because we know from practice that children who should always be first and foremost in the interest of, they're behind. And I'm happy, maybe I'll turn a little bit now that the Cochem system has started to work, which returns that the child is in the first place, and the parents who went through the cochem during the divorce, so very often, or 99 percent, and we and the judges have confirmed that it is not being replaced, or this is how the maintenance, which is fixed, is usually paid, and there are no problems. Unfortunately, our judicial system doesn't feed on the Cochem system in bulk. And it's really up to every judge or court whether they're entering this system or not. I believe that this is necessary, and that is why we will also be making an amendment, which should actually contain a coefficient, which is also in our proposal. We have 2,9 times the minimum of life. But, as I was saying, Minister Maláčová, we are willing to discuss the coefficient. It's not a dogma for us. And for us, it is one of the conditions for us to continue to support this bill. What I have to say, and it has already been said, the state is failing for a long time. And that's just reality. He can't use the tools he has. Enforcement is zero. In Slovakia they tried and have 2% enforcement. They found that the costs they put into it were so high that it just wouldn't pay off, so they retreated. And let's face it, it's just a dose for people or for kids who need help. I believe that we cannot say across the board that it is quite normal not to pay alimony to our children. With this proposal, we're helping it out a little bit, and we're saying it. And don't be mad at me, that's why we're saying this, because there's no ceiling on income right now. If a parent who has 50,000 can really ask for it, I'm convinced that's not quite right. And I might also say that because one of the conditions to recover maintenance claims was that a petition was filed for execution. And if I remember correctly, I have spoken to a company that has been involved in this area for a long time. And you know what the problem is? That the petition for execution is also filed for grandparents. And so I'm afraid we're going to have one big tool here, how parents are going to settle accounts between themselves. And that's a bare fact that just bothers me right now, and I'm very worried about it. And, frankly, who's gonna settle things between themselves? Those who have that income or have it abnormally large. So these are some of the fundamental things that bothers me about this proposal and which we would also like to discuss during the next discussion, because of course we will be in favour of first reading release, which we should discuss in such a way that we do not, on the contrary, discuss or have a worse situation in what this law will bring us. For us, I think that the law, which has really been revised several times, ended up in what is called a bit of a pasquila. And I understand that the Minister may have tried to make a proposal at all, because there is an election coming to hand, and the Minister will, of course, bear it as a bearing issue for his party. But I believe that this area really deserves a much bigger discussion, including with the participation of the Ministry of Justice and perhaps other ministries, because the Ministry of Justice, not under the present Madam Secretary, promises in the long term that it will bring substantial measures that should improve the situation. We haven't gotten anything to this day. On the contrary, it was also declared that in the proposal for backed-up maintenance, the new instruments or the new modifications from the Ministry of Justice would be the same. Indeed, nothing has been submitted until now. And although it may be stretching towards parents or especially children now, I am convinced that this is not really easy and we cannot bring even more confusion into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u43	Have a good evening. Mrs Olga Richterová will be the last to speak in the general debate. Madam, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u44	Hello, esteemed colleagues. The position for the Pirate Club will be very short, because almost everything has been said here. Yes, we all know that the Czech social welfare system is relatively complicated. You can look at the website socialnissystem.cz where these life situations are clearly shown by us when something is solved. But right in the moment of not paying maintenance, there's just a hole. That's the objective fact that parents are getting into trouble. We said for the pirát here and before the elections that, like in Germany, we consider the state to be reasonable, because there is just some combination of where parents have nothing to pay for and maintenance to measure, or those situations where income is withheld, they should pay from what, but they do not. And the kids are just beating it up. And what I would like to stress most is that the consequences of childhood poverty are borne by society. So let's say that, of course, it's normal to pay alimony. The main thing is to promote prevention. Cochemian practice and saxons have been mentioned here. I'd like to mention the family centers. Family centers like already developed enough and working in communities to support healthy families and normal functioning, managing problems. However, I have one question. If we're going to introduce a rather expensive system to the administration, why limit the cost of maintenance for 24 months? I just want to raise this question that it doesn't make sense at the moment when in other countries where a similar system works, it's payment all the time until the child is provided for itself by graduating, by starting to work, or at least under 18 years of age, so instead of the age limit here, there's just a 24-month limit that doesn't make any logical sense. I can imagine some government arguing and a so-called coalition compromise. But in terms of logic and rationality, I would assume that we will therefore submit an amendment in this particular area. [[18.40 hours]] As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say one more time about the administrative difficulty, so I see the major pitfalls there that it's going to be quite difficult to enforce. A total of 29 workers are designed there. They're gonna have to be pretty big experts, so I'm gonna wonder how the authorities are gonna deal with it, because I don't think it's gonna be easy to get people like that for the job. That's my concern, which I'd like to make sure she doesn't. Finally, it is of course normal to pay for maintenance, but the whole society simply does not pay off when children grow up in poverty, their parents are stressed and insecure. And in terms of prevention, we can support, as has already been mentioned...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u45	I am going to ask you to remain calm so that the Member can express herself. [[Still noisy.]] I ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm. Let's hold it for another 20 minutes. [[Still noisy.]] Just one more time, please, just calm down. [[It's easy to keep it down.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u46	That's what it feels like in school before the holidays, but after all, it's quite important things with impact...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u47	So your comment, Madame, has aroused further unrest in the hall. So, please, let's calm down a little bit. The MP isn't willing to go on if there's such a noise. Well, let's talk this through. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u48	I guess I forgot to add, through the President, that this place feels like it was in school before the holidays. Please, fellow Members, I would like to point out - let us support the family centers that can help...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u49	Then I would ask you to remain calm, honourable Members. The next phase is that I'm going to name those who are in restlessness, and I would really hate to have to do this way, you know that I've never done it before, although I can do it, then it's unnecessary public discomfort. So please, take it easy. And please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u50	So it's the third and last time. In summary, with regard to the functioning of the entire society and the support of families in general, both communication and partner skills and overcoming and managing crises, we think that the Pirates would be worth more support for the family centres and even those activation services, so-called. Saxons. We believe, because it is precautionary, that there will be a little more money in the next budget. And as far as the practice is concerned, it is good that there will also be a bill, it is simply a related issue and it is something that will move us as a state in the right direction. Thank you for the distracted attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u51	Well, thank you. Now, let me see if we have anyone else enrolled in the general debate. I see no one else, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary is not interested, nor is the rapporteur. So we're gonna vote, I'm gonna sing. We'll give the Members the room to come to the ballroom. The vote we will be the first to take, so here we have Mr Bauer's motion to reject the proposal at first reading. [[Members are still coming into the hall.]] I've got some real notes coming up here, but now is not the time, so I'm gonna smash you. So once again, I'm just gonna repeat to keep track. We will vote on Mr Bauer's proposal to reject the proposal at first reading. I'm opening the vote. Who's in favor of rejecting... Checkout request, okay. I'm closing the vote, I'm signing you off, sign in. I'm begging you, but those applications for check-out earlier. Someone must have arrived late for the vote when I started the vote... All right. I'll check you out, sign up again with your voting cards. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of rejecting the proposal, raise your hand. [[It is reported that the voting device does not work.]] It doesn't work? [[It's working now.]] Now. So who's against rejection? Voting number 19, 154 Members registered, for 16, against 63. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see another suggestion. So we will proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 155 Members registered, for 150, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Therefore, I will ask if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. Yes, Mr. Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u52	I would like to propose a constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u53	Is there another suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. So we will vote on whether you agree that the proposal should also be directed to the constitutionally-legal committee for discussion. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 155 Members signed in for 113, versus 3. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee. Is there another suggestion? It's not. So I'm ending the first reading of this proposal. Mr. Jakub Michálek is reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u54	Thank you for the floor. After consulting the chairman of the club ANO and ČSSD, I would like to propose that we act today after 19 o'clock until the discussion of the press - paragraphs 32 and 68, i.e. records of beneficial owners and related printing. I think we should be able to make it by about 19.15, 19.30 max. I suggest we negotiate these two prints after 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-005-070.u55	So we have a proposal from three MPs, if I understood correctly, so that's in line. So we will vote on the proposal to discuss prints 32 and 68, sorry, until we discuss paragraphs 32 and 68. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 155 Members registered, for 107, against 10. The motion was accepted. Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today from 1844 to 19.00 to the end of the day for family reasons, and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologises today from 18.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. So I'm opening up another point. This is about
