ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-074-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 74th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. To record our participation, I've just checked you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign in or tell me who votes with the replacement card. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as at the 73rd meeting. There's no need to report back to me, the ones you've reported to me earlier today. I called a meeting following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which states that I have declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday 24 November. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Dolínek and Mr František Kopřiva. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for verifiers. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We can. Initiating vote. Who is for the proposed verifier meeting? Who's against it? Voting number one, 76 Members registered, for 75, against no one. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Petr Dolínek and Mr František Kopřiva, as verifiers of the 74th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 October this year, by my decision number 70, on the basis of the Government's proposal, I have declared a state of legislative emergency. Furthermore, I am under § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies decided to discuss the Government's draft law amending Act No.353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, the House's press 1095, in a short hearing, and I ordered it to the Committee on Budgets to discuss and set it an unbreakable deadline for submitting a resolution to this day by 9 o'clock. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this issue. I'm asking if anyone is interested in speaking on this matter. I don't see anyone. The debate is over and we will proceed to the vote. I shall make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of a legislative emergency." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 83, for 81, against no one. The motion has been approved. And now we will proceed to the proposal for the 74th meeting, as stated on the invitation. I have no application for the agenda at this time, no one is applying with an amendment or supplemental proposal. We will therefore vote on the entire 74th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 86, for 81, against no one. The agenda has been approved. Thank you. And I'm opening one point in this meeting, item number
