ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended /German press 889/ - second reading [[9.10 hours]] Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor. I'll read one more apology while you guys get ready. Mr Radek Holomčík apologizes and apologises from 9 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Very briefly before the second reading of the amendment to the State Budget Act for 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u3	So I will ask you to calm down, honourable Members, because I do not know why, but as the Minister has spoken, the level of noise has suddenly increased. Calm down, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u4	On Friday 26 June, the Committee on Budgets recommended to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government Bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, and supported the amendment reducing the amount of 136,6 billion. CZK, which was originally to increase the government's budget reserve to CZK 36,1 billion. Kč. An appropriation of 100.5 billion. CZK are designed directly for specific purposes for budget chapters, thereby ensuring the continuation of measures taken by the government and Parliament in the fight against the pandemic of coronavirus and supporting investment in particular. As regards the basic indicators, total revenue is proposed at 1364.8 billion. Kč. Total expenditure increases to 1864.8 billion. The state budget deficit is therefore CZK 500 billion. Kč. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u5	We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House press 889/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jan Volný, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal, justifying any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u6	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I think the secretary said the essentials. I merely confirm that the Committee adopted Mr Babiš's amendment, which is in the system under number 5710, and it is an amendment specifying the expenditure part of the increased deficit to the various chapters of the budget. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u7	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Let's keep going. Before I take the floor with priority rights to the Vice-President of the House, Tomio Okamur, I am of the opinion that my colleague Valachová has a replacement card number 18. Now, then, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the government coalition of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement has half a trillion crowns to approve the record debt they are proposing here, secured by their majority. So, unfortunately, our debate has been completely formal since the beginning, and unfortunately without any practical impact on the problem of government-sponsored astronomical debt of the Czech Republic, which we are discussing here. Nevertheless, the SPD Members tabled 10 amendments that would bring savings in tens of billions. The proposals are part of the package of cuts of unnecessary expenditure presented by the SDP. We propose to cut unnecessary spending in the budget, which brings nothing to decent and working citizens in the current crisis. For example, purchases of expensive foreign military technology, payments to solar barons, contributions to the European Union, inclusion in education, payments to political nonprofits, end abuse of benefits inadaptable, etc. If the government had accepted our comprehensive package of cuts, it would not now have to indebt the Republic. The government doesn't want to. I do not want to accept a package of cuts and wants to owe the Czech Republic. Let me briefly introduce some of our amendments to the budget. For example, our MP Jan Hrnčíř proposes to withdraw money from inclusion in education, and our bill for the abolition of inclusion in education is here too, and instead we propose to pay back, to pay off state debt. Furthermore, we propose to reduce by almost 30 billion. the contributions to the EU budget and instead of the contributions to the EU budget, we propose to give money to people with disabilities so that they have more. Furthermore, we propose to increase the contribution to care for people who are disabled, we also propose to increase salaries for people in social services, and we also propose to increase money for social services for the citizens needed. These are the amendments prepared by Mrs Lucie Šafránková, our Member of the SPD. I'm talking about the SPD. Lucie Šafránková and our MP Pavel Jelínek. Furthermore, the duo of our Members Šafránková-Jelínek also prepared an amendment, where we are reducing by 27 billion. money to the solar barons and we're moving this money to raise pensions. That seems a lot better than subsidizing some billionaires. Mr Jiří Kobza has also prepared amendments to abolish money for various political non-profits for various such projects and move money to people with disabilities. That must be a priority, not a payment to some political nonprofit. God knows where else. And then we also have a proposal from our Member, Monika Jarošová, which further reduces the money to the solar barons and instead proposes that we die of state debt. Of course, part of this package of cuts of unnecessary SPD expenses is the other proposals that I have already discussed here. The SPD will not support this budget unless the government does at least make some of our proposed cuts to completely unnecessary spending. As we know from the negotiations of the Economic Committee, our proposals do not stand a great chance. But we didn't want to completely resign from our legislative and control activities. Why the record deficit budget is really bad and economically destructive, it has not only been heard from our mouths many times. For us, it remains crucial that we really have no idea where the money will go, which will be paid by all citizens of the country and their children for decades. The government hasn't specified it at all. To talk about supporting the economy can only be believed in part, because the aid is and will obviously be selective, not systemic and horizontal, so as to help everyone fairly. Again, we note that aid to entrepreneurs is negligible compared to expenditure. And, of course, we're not alone. Again, first and foremost, economists criticize it. I would like to quote for everyone the chief economist of the financial company Roklen Dominik Stroukal. Quote: The interesting is 500 billion, i.e. Half a trillion crowns, in the context of the earlier statement by Minister Schillerová, who claimed that she had already released 1,200 billion billion into the economy a month ago, which, of course, was just populist manipulation of the figures from which she is now self-confessing. As the planned deficit has been increased several times, it is unlikely that it will be the last. End of quote by economists. - And, of course, economists can clearly see that - I quote: increasing the deficit by hundreds of billions is an easy prey for interest groups. End of quote. No doubt the state should invest and move the economy, but first of all, qualified debate should prevent this, how and where. The biggest problem of the Czech economy is dependence on the existing automotive industry, more precisely on the production of cars with internal combustion engines. Whatever we think about it, specific European countries are already planning to ban the sale and operation of vehicles with internal combustion engines in the future, while pushing for a ban throughout the European Union. As we know Brussels and its bans on light bulbs or more powerful vacuum cleaners, such a ban will happen and will affect us and our manufacturers. Although regulations from Brussels are dangerous and harmful as a natural disaster, all we can do with them is step out of the European Union and prepare for the Brussels disaster. In our case, it means investing in a different type of industry than making cars with internal combustion engines, which can be an extraordinary opportunity for our scientists, engineers and manufacturers. [[9.20 hours]] I have read, for example, that a team of Czech chemists has discovered a new cheap industrial process for graphene production, which can increase concrete strength in reducing its weight, improve battery capacity, or better filter waste water, for example. All of this requires further verification and investment of several million crowns. Unfortunately, there is no form of support that would provide these sums to examine the results of basic research - Czech basic research -. I mean, this is an investment for the state. Whether the state pays for research and then gets a percentage of the use of patents, or whether graphens are directly produced by state companies and sold around the planet, or we can build factories around the world. That's what I call an investment, and here's a way where the state could and should spend money usefully. Such projects, however, are just our dream so far, because the government intends to spend money as a standard regardless of any direct return. Sometimes it is even the opposite, because if the government supports loans to foreign banks, profits from these loans co-financed by the state will flow abroad. That would have been better if the government had forgiven each of its citizens taxes at some reasonable level, thus helping everyone fairly without having to redistribute them selectively. But, of course, the unjust redistribution is the government's goal, as well as the electoral bribery. Unfortunately, for example, seniors and pensioners do not realize that if the government symbolically adds a few hundred to them, it does not give them one of its own, and it adds a few hundred because it refuses to introduce a fair system in which, on the one hand, the minimum decent pension would be in place and the valuation would be a fixed amount depending on the economy without the state having to deal with the situation of the poorest pensioners. These two proposals were submitted by the SPD, and the government has consistently rejected them. The SPD wants to impose a minimum decent pension in the amount of poverty, which is about 14,000 pure, and only from this amount merited. And we want everyone to be valorized, not by a percentage, but by the same amount. This is what the SPD has long sought, because, based on the current government model of valorisation, poorer pensioners are even poorer, and let's face it, there is simply no way to live for up to 14,000 pensions, and I am talking not only about old-age pensions but also about disability pensions, that is also the priority of the SPD to raise them. And that's something you forget. The fact that we have disabled and old-age pensioners who are barely living is primarily the blame of a government that refuses to solve their problems, because it is much more comfortable for her to keep people poor and then buy them in charity before the elections. It's cheaper, and even government parties look like the good guys. A serious colleague and colleagues, the proposed deficit budget of an incredible half a trillion crowns, actually gives the Bianko cheque to the government to spend the money of its citizens as it pleases, and it is unprecedented in that regard, regardless of the Prime Minister's formal amendment, which sorted part of the money into thematic chapters. It is clear that at this point in time, the government does not really know where much of the money will go. I have a feeling that the lobbyists' fight for a pie that the government is making here is happening behind the scenes, and that the citizens are left with only crumbs and a fucking greasy bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u9	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Before we continue to perform Miroslav Kalousek, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. My colleague Mihola from 9:00 to 11:00 for business reasons. Tomáš Kohoutek apologizes for the whole day due to illness. She also apologizes to Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková from today's meeting day and Lubomír Volný. With replacement card No. 19 will be voted by colleague Skopeček. Now, President Miroslav Kalousek, Vice-President Petr Fiala will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to begin by making a small remark. We are discussing a second reading of an unprecedented amendment, when in the middle of the year the government is asking for an increase in spending of CZK 137 billion, an extraordinary, unprecedented situation - and two of the members of the government are present here. The government takes it so seriously, it's a document that's so crucial to her. This is just for starters, and it totally fits into the approach when the government put forward a proposal to increase spending by 137 billion without bothering to specify it, and it's all stuffed up with government budget reserves. Is this contempt for the House? Is it incompetence? Let's answer our own questions. But in any case, the presence of two members of the government in such a crucial document is scandalous. Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 at first reading presented a proposal for a recast with a recommendation on how this proposal is to be recast by the government and on how to reduce spending and deficit by CZK 80 billion, this proposal has not been adopted, and has advanced to second reading. We cannot accept this, however much we respect the position of the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies, so we cannot accept that, with such a fundamental amendment, the principle that I consider holy in the debate of the budget is not complied with and has a profound logic that income, expenditure, balance are approved at first reading, therefore those income and expenditure constraints are fixed, deficit is fixed, and at second reading it is essential for the voteability of the amendment to its fiscal neutrality so that it cannot change revenue or expenditure. I consider this principle to be the only right one, because the second reading of the amendment, when the House can then deepen the deficit by voting on any godly amendments and make it something completely different from the government draft, I consider it extremely risky. That is why, although we have put forward a proposal to revise the bill at first reading, we will not present any amendment to the second reading. Of course, we will support the proposals that will lead to a reduction in expenditure, which in any case, we will not support any proposal that would lead to an increase in expenditure, but I point out more for the future - hopefully this will turn out well today - but I point out to the future that the possibility here that there is a second reading to change mandatory revenue and expenditure is extremely risky, and I take it as a subject for a change in the Rules of Procedure, so that, even in the case of an amendment to the State Budget Act, at any time in the future, we will proceed according to the principle that I consider to be the only possible and only safe. Please, let's never take that risk again. So much for our activity in second reading amendments. I have one more question. I asked the Secretary of State about the budget committee what strategy the government has in the event that the revenue would fall even more than the current forecast. I'm not criticizing it, I understand that I can come out of the most up-to-date possible now, which is April, which says, would be a fall - which predicts a fall in revenue of roughly 215 or 220 billion against the budget approved in 2019. However, we all know that the prediction is burdened with very strong downside risks and that it is a risk we must be able to count on. So matka země and the otec of the slunce told me yesterday at the solstice that it would be more than 215, but so we shall see. In any case, it's a risk we have to count on. [[9.30 hours]] The Minister answered the Committee on Budgets with a question that pleased me that, in such a case, she would not allow for a free fall, but would suggest that expenditure be tied so that the decline in income greater than expected would not mean a significant increase in the approved deficit. I would like to add one more question to that. If you're ready for this, Madam Secretary, why didn't you do it now? Does the $500 billion deficit seem a little astronomical to you? I'm quite sorry that something like this should have happened in the operating expenses of the chapters already. This is one of the many reasons why this proposal is inconvenient for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u11	There. Reading an apology. Mr Martin Jiránek apologizes for the meeting for the reasons of the meeting in the electoral region. And Mr Radek Koten apologizes from 9 am to the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. And now, with priority right, the President of the ODS, Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, gets the floor. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have argued quite extensively here in discussing this proposal at first reading, and I have justified why the Civil Democratic Party will not support this astronomical deficit, why we consider this solution to be a solution, an expression of the government's helplessness, and why we believe that in no way what the government is preparing here will help to start the economy. I also recall that I supported my speech and quotes from the report by the Supreme Audit Office, the National Budget Board and other independent institutions, which, like us, are convinced that the government's economic policy is not in order and will not lead to any sensible solution that would help citizens, companies and really start the economy after the crisis. I'm not going to repeat the arguments. Let me just remind you that in my speech, I also announced that the Civil Democratic Party wanted to commit the government to at least some steps in accompanying resolutions on this proposal, or to remind it of some promises made by the government coalition itself and which it has not yet fulfilled, which would certainly help us to cope with the effects of the Corona crisis. These resolutions go in the direction that we want the government to save on itself, not on people, and therefore should audit the expenditure of the state. We will also want the government to fulfil its commitment to reduce the bureaucratic burden. We want to commit the government to fulfill another of its promises and also our programme objectives, and that is the abolition of a super-gross wage. And we also consider it necessary for the government to finally come up with some concept of pension reform and some credible concept of tax reform and levy reform, so as to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in particular, but to reduce overall tax burdens and simplify taxes. We have prepared concrete motions for resolutions for this second reading. I will now introduce you to what accompanying resolutions are supposed to be, and then, at the third reading, we should deal with their approval. So the motions for resolutions tabled by the Civil Democratic Party. There's five of them. One. The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to do 31. 7. 2020 has submitted an audit of the State's expenditure. - Existing expenditure linked to the operation of the State does not correspond to the possibilities of the budget on the revenue side and it is necessary to identify expenditure which can be reduced. Two. The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to 31. 7. 2020 to present a plan to reduce bureaucratic burdens by at least 10 per cent by the end of 2020 and another 10 per cent in 2021. - This is the fulfilment of a government commitment from last year, which has not yet been fulfilled. The third resolution will read as follows: The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to support the rapid approval of the abolition of the super-gross wage. - The bill is waiting in the House for discussion as House press 254 from 8. 8. 2018. Fourth resolution: The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the Government to submit by 31. 12. 2020 concept of pension reform. - This government's programme objective has not yet been met and, in view of the approaching end of the parliamentary term, it is high time to process the proposal and take into account the current economic development and outlook and debt of public finances proposed by the government this year and in subsequent years. And the fifth, the last resolution will be as follows: The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to submit by 31. 12. 2020 proposal for a reform of taxes and levies, which will simplify and support particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, leaving more money for people. Madam, honourable Members, you can see that these proposals, in a large majority, go in a direction which the government has committed itself to going. They remind the government of things she wanted to do, but she couldn't prepare them, she couldn't, she didn't want to. And we believe that at this time, when people and companies are faced with as much trouble as they have, it is precisely these steps that need to be taken. And we think that if you help us and we put it to the government together, we will help the Czech economy and the Czech Republic. I will then sign up for these draft accompanying resolutions in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u13	There. So we will now continue with the general debate by Members who do not have priority rights. So Mr. František Navrkal will be the first to speak and Mr. Václav Votava will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, dear colleagues. I would like to present to you my amendment to today's amendment to the state budget. The aim of the proposal is to give the courts the means to ensure sufficient personnel capacity to stop illegal executions. Already in 2013 The Supreme Court has determined that all executions initiated on the basis of erroneously written arbitration clauses should be stopped. According to experts, unauthorized execution involves tens of thousands of cases, according to the Ministry of Justice it is up to 133 thousand. The government is aware of this problem. With the help of the victims of this trample on the rule of law, Prime Minister Babiš was also on the mountain last year. Nevertheless, the detection and stopping of unlawful executions continues to be serious. Last year, the Ministry of Justice assigned the district courts the task of investigating suspicious cases, but came across insufficient judicial officials to deal with this agenda. According to the courts, it would take several years to investigate all relevant cases in the current state. The proposed amount of CZK 100 million transferred from the government's budget reserve will allow me to hire around three officials in each district court, thereby speeding up this process considerably. Every citizen who has been illegally trapped in debt is burdened by the social system and is strongly motivated to work within the grey economy. The proposed transfer of funds is therefore a good investment that will return to the state budget in the form of lower social benefits and higher tax revenues. In particular, in view of the emerging economic crisis, it is not possible to delay this unhappy situation further. I therefore ask you to consider the amendment tabled. In your third reading, you can help tens of thousands of victims of unfair practices of credit firms and the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u15	There. Mr Jan Farský will now speak with priority rights. I'll read one more apology. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová apologizes from the beginning to the next 13 hours for health reasons. Mr Václav Votava will be prepared for Mr Farský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the support of Mr Navrkal's proposal. On Friday we held a conference in the House, which was attended at the invitation of the Minister of Justice, President of the Judging Union, by the President of the Executor Chamber, as well as by the attorney Petr Němec, who drew attention to the issue of illegal executions years ago, and he is the one who initiated most of the judicacies according to which they are set as illegal. It is a problem, and I would even say the embarrassment of the Czech Republic that such execution lies here. The seminar was important and interesting in that it managed to get to one table at one point all the actors involved in this somehow. And the conclusion was basically clear, and that black Petr lies on trial. Since the courts are legally obliged to stop them, they have an obligation to stop illegal executions that are still taking place in the Czech Republic in the order of hundreds of thousands. However, the courts argue that they have another agenda, that they do not want to delay further decisions, and therefore they have no time to stop illegal executions. They therefore identified the lack of funds as an obstacle, and this amendment is addressed by Mr Navrkal. It is an agenda which the Minister herself has declared to be a priority agenda of the government, one that she wants to address and needs to be addressed. And last March, Prime Minister Babiš volunteered to solve this problem in the Czech Republic. They will not solve it without helping the courts to make decisions in this regard. Why is this agenda so important and so crucial? The judgment that some executions ordered on the basis of a non-discriminatory arbitration clause are already of May 2011 is already this unifying decree of the Supreme Court from this date that some executions are conducted on a feeble basis and that they should not take place at all, and if they are taking place, the courts are to stop them on their own. It's not like that. The Ministry mentioned that 133,000 of them were identified, but those are only those that are after 2013, since the Ministry itself had data about it, and at the same time it's all executions based on arbitration clauses, not only illegal ones. So there's a big question mark on what this number is really saying. What comes from a qualified estimate is about 200,000 cases. I gave the first interview to the Minister of Justice in this, to the Minister of Justice at the time, in December 2018, at that time the solution was not quite so fast, but then, thanks to the involvement of Mr Patrik Nacher, perhaps things began to move. As much as they started to move, but we don't know about it, I don't have news that these illegal executions are coming to a close from the courts. Whoever approached them more is Home Credit, who at the beginning of this year stopped all the illegal executions that he led. When I'm talking about 200,000 cases, it may seem like something very abstract to someone, and it's not always quite easy to imagine specific human cases. I'll tell you a few cases of specific people for whom I stopped the execution and stopped. I've filed these submissions in 368 over the last year. In more than 60 cases, the courts stopped. But if you figure out the numbers for yourself, it would be working for decades, maybe centuries. The first example is Mrs. ., after whom they enforced the illegal execution of 120,000 crowns. It was one of five executions, and because of this first illegal execution, she was unable to repay four other legitimate ones. Last year, we filed a motion to abolish this execution, the court came forward, canceled it. Since the original claim is not cancelled by this, it has been sued again, but it was no longer CZK 120,000, but CZK 37,000, and this amount is paid in instalments by the lady and will be paid in July. The fact that she had been granted repayment, and the fact that her debt had already been reduced, allowed her to pay four other legitimate executions, and the lady would be out of a situation that she could never otherwise have gotten out of after a year. I will give you a second example, even louder, illegal execution, when Mrs. K. owed CZK 270,000. We made a motion to abolish this illegal execution, the court granted it, and it turned out that the right to claim was only CZK 31,000. Thanks to this, they managed to reach out to other executions, which are thus refundable. This proposal will also help simply to get funding to legitimate creditors; not to end up with those who have turned people into their modern slaves who have fooled them with such rates from different arbitration procedures and fines that go beyond multiple original debt and who are not able to pay even the accessories. Therefore, I would ask you, in view of the 200,000 cases in which execution is enforced in the Czech Republic, to enforce debts in an illegal and illegal way, to think about them and to think about the rule of law and trust in the rule of law, which, from my point of view, is greatly threatened by this. Because if the state is unable to stop illegal execution, if it is unable to regulate itself, then it is already about the collapse of the entire legal system. I ask you to bear in mind the at least 200,000 cases and the amendment prepared by my colleague Navrkal to support, because it is a matter that will help significantly the whole Czech economy, which will help the whole Czech society, and it is our big debt that we have to repay. And the sooner the better. And in times of crisis, it is even more true that one who gives quickly twice gives. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u17	Mr Václav Votava will now appear and Mrs Lucie Šafránková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, let me, too, make a few comments on the proposal to amend the state budget for 2020, with a huge deficit of CZK 500 billion. And then I will make two amendments, which I have tabled either myself or together with two colleagues. A government Member is certainly expected to vote in favour of the budget put forward by the coalition government. Of course, for a budget with a huge deficit of CZK 500 billion, I will raise my hand, but only for one that will be adjusted so that there will be no more 137 billion in the government's budget reserve, but there will be about 100 billion less. The original proposal with such a large government budget reserve, without a clear specification of what the 137 billion will be used for, I should really support this. Raising my hand for a huge deficit of CZK 500 billion will not really be easy, it will not be with a light heart. This is mainly because I have some reservations about the budget, but I also have concerns about the future, I am concerned about the country's enormous debt. Of course, we are in a difficult economic situation because of the pandemic, and an exceptional situation also requires exceptional solutions. However, this cannot take the responsibility of us for the approval of such a huge deficit and at the same time the debt of the Czech Republic. Even though letting all this go on is certainly not responsible either. [[9.50 hours]] But in the approved budget, albeit with a huge deficit, funds will also be filled in the government budget reserve, which is currently at the bottom. According to information from the Ministry of Finance, there are now only 100 million crowns. It will be possible, among other things, to pay compensation to municipalities and cities, i.e. the means that municipalities and cities have lost from shared taxes, including on the basis of the payment of the bonus to self-employed and small entrepreneurs. Although less than CZK 13 billion is marginal in the entire budget, I consider this to be a pretty fundamental and fundamental thing. Also because I was co-author of the motion for a resolution on compensation of the state to municipalities and regions, which was presented in the House by colleague Ondřej Veselý and which unfortunately was not adopted by the House at the time. The Member and Prime Minister Babiš tabled an amendment to the Government's draft budget, which reduced the proposed amount of funds from the government's budget reserve from 137 billion to 36 billion, i.e. more than CZK 100 billion to some chapters of the ministries. However, it must be said that we have only six months left by the end of 2020. So I wonder if it is really possible to use the funds meaningfully and efficiently, whether it is possible to invest them. Whether it's possible in such a short time. This is, for example, 20 billion for transport infrastructure, but also other funds for investment programmes and therefore investment projects. I noted in an interview by the Deputy Minister of Transport Lenka Hlubučková, that they are still looking for which projects can move forward and start building them before planned, and those projects prepared to realize that there is no surplus. They have the first list, but they say it's not definitive. It is therefore a question of whether most of the investment can be realized and therefore financed in such a short time, especially with regard to public procurement. It is not just a building permit, of course the contracts must also be competitive. But not just that. Construction investments are also the capacity of construction companies, and this was already a problem before the pandemic. Construction firms do not deal with a lack of contracts, but they deal with a lack of workers, both qualified and unqualified. Especially now foreign workers are missing and unfortunately many companies are also dependent on them. Not just construction companies, of course. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but I'm kind of skeptical to really invest the funds. Then I would expect that the government of unrealised expenditure, the unused demands of the chapters will have to be dealt with by undertaking these funds, as the Minister of Finance has also said in this respect to the Committee on Budgets. Massive resources are to be pumped into the economy. We want to invest in the pandemic crisis, I'm not questioning that. I do not question the will of the government to pump unprecedented resources into the economy. At alespoň that's what the government promises. If these funds are spent effectively and they put our economy on its feet, why not? But by massive means, we also create huge debt in the economy, and you can't put your head in the sand and not think about the future. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for the Government to develop the concept of consolidation of public finances for the period 2021 to 2027 as adopted by the Budget Committee in the resolution, although I recognise that the deadline for submission 30. 9. is a bit gallowsy. I would also expect the government to revise the budget approved last December with a deficit of 40 billion and to look for savings in individual chapters. I'm not talking about blunt cuts right now, I'm talking about assessing whether some of the operating expenses of the chapters are really necessary at this time. In conclusion, I would like to make one comment. I think that the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the government should also listen more to the views of the National Budget Board, take their reports seriously. The Council is an independent expert body, they are generally recognised, renowned economists, and the main mission of the Board is to assess whether the State and other public institutions comply with the rules of budgetary responsibility. Let us not doubt that the Council contributes to the sustainability of public finances, otherwise I do not know why we set up the Council, the National Budget Council, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. I remember these meetings well in the last parliamentary term. And now, briefly tabled amendments. I have tabled, respectively, two amendments. The first amendment concerns an increase in expenditure of Chapter 374 Administration of state material reserves, by CZK 460 million at the expense of the government's budgetary reserve. This appropriation will be intended to cover the purchase of food commodities, the improvement of food security, the modernisation of logistics equipment of the Administration of State Material Reserves as well as the remediation of damage caused by the flooding of the warehouse in Heřman's Town. The second amendment, which I submit together with my colleagues Kateřina Valachová and Alena Gajdůškovášková, concerns an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, in the indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations, amounting to CZK 1.5 billion, at the expense of the government's budgetary reserve. This appropriation will be used to promote long-distance education and is based on the experience gained as a result of pandemics at times when schools were closed and teaching took place in a substitute online way through the Internet or also a television educational programme and so on. So I am going to apply to both amendments with some commentary in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u19	Now I'll read the apology. For working reasons, she apologises for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Lenka Kozlová. And now I'm going to ask for a performance with Mrs Lucie Šafránková. I thought someone was raising their hand. Please... but before that, I've got some real notes here, and I'm sorry, and I got a few of them here early. So first, Mr Patrik Nacher, then Mr Martin Kupka and Mr Jan Skopeček. Please, your two minutes. And Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to respond to this amendment by my colleague Navrkal. I wasn't at the seminar because I was quarantined, unfortunately, otherwise I'd like to take part. In principle, I like it personally, I was just telling my colleague if and how he arranged it with the Minister of Justice. At the same time, I would like to say at this point whether it's just about the money or whether it's about the will. I'll describe it in a minute and a half for those colleagues who don't know the subject, and he described it a little Farský, so I'll describe it in a minute and a half that I'm a little short of the will on the part of the courts, because they're supposed to decide automatically. The first letter that went to the courts was for Minister Pelikán. Then the Prime Minister Babiš wrote a letter. Then there was another letter from Minister Benešová, where the 133,000 executions that meet the parameters of, say, a pre-selection that could be unlawful were just identified, as there was an arbitration clause. [[10.00 hours]] The stopping is so slow, I think we can all agree on that. However, sometimes the situation even goes in the opposite direction. There have also been cases on my e-mail where the courts are calling again on the legitimate ones, if they agree to stop this unlawful execution. They should stop it automatically, and instead send a question to the authorized one. So I'd quite like to take advantage of that, since there's already a changeling like this, so we're talking about money and capacity in court, and we're talking about whether and at what courts the will to stop these cases that have been here since 2011, or 2013 is. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u21	Mr Martin Kupka will now speak with a factual remark and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues, I wanted to highlight the words of Mr Votava as a government Member. I listened carefully. That was a devastating criticism of the government proposal. There is no other way to interpret this than as a crushing criticism of a government proposal. While the Minister is questioning the assessment of the National Budget Board, Mr Votava clearly defends it, as do we, and we say that in the normal state respect for experts and respect for the National Budget Board is one of the fundamental pillars of the functioning of the government and the functioning of the elementary debate on economic issues on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. It was clearly said from those words that, in six months' time, investing the large funds was, in the opinion of Mr Votava, just as unrealistic in our view. Nevertheless, the government is proposing such action. I assume that social democracy, if these words were meant seriously, cannot support the government proposal and that the Minister will also stand up to the overwhelming criticism that is undoubtedly appropriate. It's just one hot and the other clean. It is clear here that the Minister is speaking clearly on the part of the Minister for the rejection of the position of the National Budget Board, which says that the proposal is wrong and irresponsible, and from the mouth of the Government Member it sounds adequately that the proposal is really wrong and that the National Budget Board should be respected and respected by the Government when it has already given it its mandate. So I ask for the Minister's response, how is it with the government proposal and its support in its own government ranks?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u23	Mr Jan Skopeček will now speak with a factual remark and Mrs Lucie Šafránková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u24	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also not only like to highlight the words of Mr Votava, I would like to thank him. I respect him for his words. I appreciate that he is able, as a government coalition member, to speak up to the budget and to say the only thing that can be said about this, namely to criticise it. And I appreciate that, because it is never easy for a government coalition MP to oppose a government whose party is part of it. But my colleague Votava understands it well. Because this is no longer a right-wing dispute, Mr Votava and I are no longer arguing about whether the deficit is to be minus 10 or minus 20 billion and whether the deficit is to be balanced at a time of economic growth, or if tax rates are to be progressive, or if we are to have equal tax rates. These are classic right-wing clashes that are relevant, legitimate in normal times, and we will be happy to return to them Votava here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and in the Committee on Budgets. This isn't a right-wing confrontation. Today we are discussing the beginning of the collapse of public finances in the Czech Republic. Just a huge increase in the deficit to 500 billion without the Minister proposing at least elementary savings in the state budget this year is equal to the beginning of the collapse of public finances. And I am pleased that the representative of the traditional, albeit left-wing party has a problem with this disruption. And maybe it's because it's from the traditional side that it's not from the new YES movement, who only cares about getting some subsidies to his boss, and they don't care about the future of the Czech Republic. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And they're willing to let our kids get in debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u25	Mrs Lucie Šafránková will now appear, Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present the amendments to the Government amendment to the State Budget Act, which I prepared under the SPD with my colleague Mr Pavel Jelínek. First, I suggest we move 23.5 billion. CZK from the budget chapter General Treasury Administration to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In particular, it is a reduction in the volume of the expenditure indicator of the contributions to the budget of the European Union in half of the budget amount. During the beginning of the economic crisis as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, fundamental budgetary steps must be taken and, in particular, the interests of Czech citizens and Czech companies affected by the impact of emergency measures should be given priority. In this situation, it is not appropriate to point such enormously high amounts abroad, especially not to the operation of European Union institutions which do not plan any, let alone significant own savings. Moreover, the Czech Republic is to be a so-called net payer within the framework of the upcoming so-called European Union Recovery Fund, which means that it will take more into the European Union's budget in the overall balance of revenue, expenditure and guarantees than it will receive. In this respect, therefore, we are more than solidarity enough and now the existential interests of the Czech state and its citizens must come first for us. A fraction of 23.5 billion. We therefore propose to transfer CZK to the following specific items within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: 1.5 billion. CZK for the benefits of disabled people - it is a strengthening of the amount of funds intended for disabled citizens, namely the contribution to mobility and the contribution to a special aid. The main motivation is to prevent unwanted savings and restrictions in this area. 8 billion. then to the care allowance under the Social Services Act. The current setting of this contribution, especially in the area of so-called home care, is low and completely inadequate. Once again, the decline in public revenue must not be a reason not to increase it. 4 billion. CZK for other expenditure of the organisational units of the State. This is mainly about strengthening the volume of funds intended for salaries of workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, especially within the Czech Social Security Administration and the Labour Office. These people have been neglected in the long term in the process of increasing the salary of state employees. In particular, as a result of the effects of the emergency condition of the coronavirus, they faced a huge increase in the amount of work and duties, including new agendas and legislative adjustments. For this, we deserve our thanks and significant financial appreciation. 10 billion. CZK for non-investment non-payment transfers. This is a necessary financial strengthening of the area of social services provided by the regions and municipalities, which is constantly struggling with a lack of funds. First of all, it is a personnel area, a necessary increase in the salaries of social workers in social services establishments, as well as in outpatient, field and care services. Secondly, we propose to move 27 billion. CZK from the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is a transfer of all funds from the expenditure indicator of the subsidy to renewable energy sources to the pension benefit expenditure indicator. The oversized subsidy support for so-called solar barons, private energy suppliers from so-called renewable sources, is inexcusable in itself and even more so at the time of the emerging economic crisis as a result of the pandemic. There is no economic or moral reason for it, especially if we realize that it accounts for more than half of all planned expenditures of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The amount, these 27 billion, is therefore proposed to be transferred to the pension benefit area, because, due to the dampening of the economy at the time of emergency and the decline in selected pension insurance, the so-called pension account and the amount of funds planned for the payment of all types of pensions this year are significantly weakened. That can't be allowed. Old and disabled pensioners and beneficiaries of other pensions must not be reduced in their income to the detriment of the support of private commercial entities and shall not be restricted in any way by the planned valuation of their pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u27	I will now request a speech from Mrs Hana Aulická and prepare for Mrs Monika Jarošová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present our amendment for the KSČM club, which may not be that significant, in any case it contains a total of 2 billion. With these funds, we are mainly heading to the health sector, where we are trying to help 500 million nurses in social services, which would not receive the legitimate assistance, or rather the compensation under the COVID-19 situation, and therefore we will try to ensure that this amount is approved. The remaining amount of 1.25 billion within the Ministry of Health would go to the transfer of bed care, to further cover the remuneration for health personnel, which would not be covered in the newly valid compensation decree from 1. 7. 2020. This agreement or these amounts have also been agreed on by the Health Committee. I think the regions were very happy to agree that this amount of 1.75 billion would go with the grant title. And, more or less, the Ministry of Health will transfer these amounts to the county by agreement, and the regions will be able to manage everything so that these funds go to the employees themselves as quickly as possible. I would also like to imagine, unfortunately, what I think is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has slept a little and forgotten about social workers in municipalities, the second and third types, which represent the performance of social work. And here we give from that reserve CZK 2 billion 50 million for their rewards just again during the period COVID-19, because it was these workers who were very helpful to the people needed, and they helped even in a situation where people needed to fill out some forms, dealt with the situation with the employment office, and they were really the ones who were very heavy to keep people from remaining without the means or other needs that occurred in this situation. I also think that the amount of 200 million we also give to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports goes for a good purpose. And I think that even here it was a little forgotten about the workers or the entire staff of institutional care at the Ministry of Education. I really think, and I will not be alone, who has dealt with the lack of staff and other things in his regions for this particular area. I think that the workers of institutional care, children's homes, and others deserve the rewards, because they have managed to cope with the situation with the strain of strength, and they need more or less to be helped. That means we have $2 billion coming from the state reserve. And I'd be very happy if you'd support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u29	Mrs Monika Jarošová will now speak and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you my amendment to the budget for this year. I propose to move CZK 13.5 billion from supported sources of energy from the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and use this money for faster repayment of state debt. This is the support of solar barons to which funds of 27 billion are earmarked in the budget. For the record, it's more than half of the Ministry of Industry and Trade's budget. This is an overly high amount, since these renewable energy sources also involuntaryly co-finance end-users. This is the invoice fee marked as aid for the purchase of electricity, or the price to cover the costs associated with the promotionable resources, which can, on average, make up to CZK 1,500 a year per household. Therefore, I propose an immediate and significant reduction in the payment of funds to solar power stations, and I want to transfer these funds to a reduction in state debt. A growing government debt needs to be dealt with without delay. Above all, we must think about the future of the Czech Republic and its citizens. We will not allow, under pressure from the European Union, unnecessary debt for solar power plants to sacrifice the financial future not only for our children but also for ourselves, and then for the future we do not have the money for pensions. Our SPD movement is for budgetary responsibility and we do not agree with such an outrageous increase in state debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u31	I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, I must begin by saying that I am really not happy with the high deficit for this year's budget, which we have ahead of us and will most likely be approved. You know, the Social Democrats have always tried to make healthy public finances. I remember the government falling when it was an increase of one billion over a hundred. We've been trying all along, and it can be traced, virtually. It was a social democracy that pushed the medium-term outlooks that processed convergence programmes to meet the Maastricht criteria so that debt would meet the criteria that meant joining the euro area and a good position for the Czech economy. We have tried and can be traced again to ensure that public finances are healthy in the Czech Republic. Why? Because without sound public finances, we are unable to maintain a functioning state. Because sound public finances mean that the state has enough funding for education, health care, safety, to promote a healthy environment. And these are things that mean equality of chances for everyone. You know that social democracy has three fundamental values - freedom, solidarity and justice. And otherwise, by setting up the conditions for every person, every child, to have really equal chances, you just don't fulfill these values, you don't. I repeat again, we want public services to work. And the state just has to have what it takes. Al. Al. I remember the so-called Topolánkův's backpack, which meant that at that time the Topolánkův government, and it was also a comprehensive amendment by the Prime Minister, cut the revenue of the state budget at a time when the world was already talking about the upcoming crisis. Then came the economic crisis. And what did that mean? The introduction of health fees, the effort to charge health care, once again opened up a debate on the introduction of tuition fees and charging slowly of everything, including the fact that one breathes at all. It was simply the dismantling of public services on the one hand, and it was the cutting-off, I remember things about people with disabilities and so on, i.e. the cutting-out of spending, the exit from the crisis. This exit from the crisis at the time meant that the crisis in the Czech Republic was three times longer than in the surrounding countries, and that was really an art, because if the Czech economy is heavily linked, strongly export, strongly linked to the surrounding countries, the economy of Germany and other our neighbours, so when we managed to extend it to three times longer periods with these internal incompetent interventions of the right, it was indeed a result. [[10.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, good management says the crisis is both a challenge and an opportunity. The coronavirus crisis is certainly not an exception. At the very least, it meant that almost day to day our schools managed to get online teaching, that they were able to take advantage of the possibilities given to them by contemporary technologies. I'm gonna take a little turn. I remember the 1990s when I taught in the first and then in the dyslexic classes. In the 1990s, in that great euphoria, there was an effort to introduce computers into schools, instantly and quickly, and we, as cantors, went to training where they tried to teach us programming. It was just the idea of teaching kids how to use computers from first grade. Of course, that didn't come true. We're 30 years old, and we haven't moved much. But the current crisis was able to move it very quickly. And I think that's an opportunity that we have to take advantage of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u33	I would like to ask the Members to turn off their mobile phones. It's really ringing all over the place today. There are at least two Members who have them on, and it is really particularly disturbing to the speaker. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Schools struggled with this situation, where they had to switch to online teaching, distance education, some better, some worse. I spent an hour teaching with my grandson in music, where the teacher had about seven pupils and was able to work with them during the whole class, including the fact that the children played musical instruments and worked at the same time. It's okay, some of the cantors have dealt with it, some less, but it just worked. But the problem is elsewhere. The problem is the other side, children and families. Of course, this distance education logically meant that scissors would be very open between those children whose families could work with them, they could learn with them, and they could master the online teaching, and those children where parents, for lack of time, simply did not have the ability to do so. And that, from my point of view, from a social democracy point of view, is very wrong. We really have - and it is a constitutionally guaranteed right - to take care of each child's right to education, to provide him with equal chances. The Czech School Inspectorate, but also the Department of Social Inclusion at the Ministry of Local Development, did an analysis, did a study during the exceptional state, during the pandemic, and found out how families are able, how schools are able to cope with the situation. And they're based on very interesting data. The Czech School Inspectorate lists a specific number - 9.5 thousand children who were not in contact with the school at all, and the reason is that they simply did not have ICT equipment simply did not work. The Department of Social Inclusion at the Ministry of Local Development reports in their study, where they worked with a sample of 70 schools - 51 percent of pupils, children, were unable to work online because they did not have the ICT equipment, at the second stage it was even 57 percent of children. This analysis specifically indicates the need - in 51 percent of the school indicated the need for better technical support, that is, it is necessary for children to reach ICT equipment in order to reach a specific package of data to work with it. Colleagues and colleagues, we approve of the money to run the economy. Then let us note that investment in education returns 17 times and that is very good efficiency, the most efficient investment in the long term. We therefore propose with Mr Votava and Mr Kateřina Valachová an amendment, which Mr Votava has already mentioned here, which is a rerouting or determination of CZK 1.5 billion into the chapter of regional education of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, in the chapter called "Votava." ONIV, other non-investment expenses. This is the quickest way to provide ICT equipment for those children who really need it, so that online education can be made possible for all children to have equal chances. As a former teacher, I can imagine that online education and the use of ICT technology will not only be if we close schools - and it can happen, we do not know what awaits us in the future in some time. But I can imagine that it will be used to what is called an individual approach to children, whether it is equalizing the chances of those children who have problems or, on the contrary, supporting very gifted children, which is something that we should also be dealing with. Thus, ICT equipment is not just a matter of having to close schools again for some time and start full online education or distance education. If the equipment really is in school and the children have it, I think we can take a mile forward to modern education, so that it is as effective as possible and that it really gives every child the opportunity to apply their talents to the maximum of their abilities. That's definitely the best investment in the future. I believe that to a certain extent this view can be shared by the majority of the House, I believe so, and I would very much like to see the Minister's support for this. It really won't be a bad investment. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u35	So now I call on Mr Jan Skopeček to make a point of fact. In the meantime, I'll read one apology. Mrs Dana Balcarová apologizes for working reasons from today's meeting until the end of the day. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u36	Thank you very much. I want to respond to my colleague. I don't want to talk so much about the matter of her performance, but I was still interested in her one thesis or the sentence, and that's when she said that the Social Democrats always wanted the stability of public finances, they always took care of healthy public finances. That really surprised me. I think we can hear a lot here, but even a thousand times a repeated lie just won't become true. I would like to ask my colleague, through Mr President, about 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, when social democracy was with the government, it had a finance minister, it was Bohuslav Sobotka, and it was during the reign of Vladimír Špidla, later under Prime Minister Paroubek. In 2003, you realized a deficit of 109 billion. CZK 93.5 billion in 2004 CZK 56 billion in 2005, 97.31 billion in 2006. And now, my colleague, what economic situation we were in, at what stage of the economic cycle. In 2003, when you realized a deficit of 109 billion, the economy grew by 3.6 percent above average. In 2004, when you made a deficit of 95.3 billion, the economy grew almost 5%. In 2006, almost a 100-billion-dollar deficit with an increase of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product. My colleague, I would like to ask you what, then, you consider unhealthy public finances to be unhealthy management when you can seriously call this sound, stable public finances. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u37	Good morning again. Thank you for your time and otherwise, please always address your colleagues through the President. Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, if you were looking for a little more honest on Googl, you would find that in 2003 floods of 2002, which washed down two thirds of the Czech Republic, were being eliminated. One. Other years have added to the issues where money, debts from your privatisation, which were hidden in the Consolidation Agency, have been transferred to the state budget and have been greased, confessed, and greased gradually in the state budget. It can be traced, they are, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, just facts!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Václav Votava's factual comment, then Mr Skopeček's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Skopečka, through the President, I think it is pointless to be dragged around like this. I can remember the beginning of the 1990s, of course, banking socialism - and that was in the government of who? Three hundred billion crowns, which then had to be bailed out, you know? Well, that wasn't exactly the right approach to public finances either. So please, it's completely unnecessary, what's happening here right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u41	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Skopeček's point of fact is still prepared by colleague Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u42	It is not in vain at all, my colleague, through Mr President. Unfortunately, banks were not privatised in the 1990s, but the first vegetables, the first trade in state hands, had to start in the 1990s. It is true that the political power of the then right-wing governments has fallen to promote reforms, but that, dear colleagues from social democracy, has not helped that right-wing government to give it political strength to complete the transformation, including the privatisation of banks. The banks were privatized by you, in my opinion, for unnecessarily low money, after you debt them. The proceeds from the sale of banks could have been much higher, especially if we look at the profits that those banks made in private hands after your debt relief in the years to come. So as far as banks are concerned, I wouldn't bother you too much, Mr. Colleague, or we could have a really serious debate here. It's always with the Social Democrats. We are going to catch them on the lies that my colleague here, through Mr President, has been addressing her, saying that public finances have mastered social democracy perfectly. And when we do a time series of five years here in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, social democracy will be blamed for privatisation. It's always like this. When the arguments run out, privatization's on the table. Of course, the deficits were implemented by your spending policy. Even then the problems of public finances, even today's problems of public finances, are on the side of expenditure. You gave them the brake, you realized it. You bought populist voters, chopped up debt at the time of growth. No one's gonna take that away from you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. I guess we're stalling the others from going on, but I'm getting off on it for the last time. Well, turn off the lights, rob them, turn on the lights. That's how it worked in the '90s in the beginning. And if we hadn't privatized those banks and bailed them out, those banks would have fallen. And I think it would be even worse than some pandemic. That would be a disaster.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. We can continue with Mr Ferjenčík's proper speech, Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the pirát did not sit here in the previous periods, so I would like to summarize that the butter on the head has both ODS and CSSD, and I think that YES has butter on its head in that it did not create any reserves for the crisis when there was an opportunity. But let's focus on the future. So as far as the budget that the Minister has presented to us is concerned, we believe that, at a time when a country is threatened with a huge economic crisis, companies are being released, people are saving, so that it is appropriate for the state to also look for savings in its operation. Even as a signal that there's a huge drop in revenue, so in such a situation to say that the state won't save a penny on its operation, it doesn't seem reasonable. That is why we are proposing several options of savings so that government Members can choose from them, which they may wish to support. It's 11 billion, 16 billion. and 25 billion. We are simply proposing to reduce the overall balance of the budget. We believe that there is room for this in the budget. We've got about 57 billion that aren't exactly determined by purpose yet. We see a great deal of savings in the state's operating expenditure. To give one particular example, the state spends huge money on marketing, on PR services. We think that in this particular sector it would be appropriate to save and put it in areas that are more useful to citizens. For this reason, we will not support the budget as a whole unless the government has taken some reduction in expenditure. We are also submitting several accompanying resolutions. This accompanying resolution, which calls for a faster unification of the collection of personal income tax, social insurance and health insurance - I know that some progress in this matter is to be made under a flat-rate tax for businessmen, but we are already hearing from representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that they will not make it and that the information systems are not ready for this. Unification of tax collection, social contributions and health contributions can save several billion a year, each year at national level in the long term, as two practically identical agendas will cease to be made in two places. It goes into one place, logically to Financial Administration. It is enough to link the information system so that it is clear what pension rights arise, and one will only communicate with one official, the company will only communicate with one institution. It will save administration for both the state and citizens and entrepreneurs, and it really is a matter to be focused on. If we want to invest now, let us invest in measures that will reduce expenditure in the long term. So this is one resolution that we are proposing to speed up the work on this matter, to include it in my tax system. [[10.40 hours]] We also propose a clicking budget again. Mariánské Lázně did it, Prague did it, the Supreme Audit Office did it. Even the Chamber of Deputies did it. So I believe the state could introduce a clicking budget. And the last resolution I am putting forward is aimed at greater transparency in the management of the government's budgetary reserve. That reserve is record-high, it's about 36, 37 billion. At this point, we will see how much more of this will be reduced by the amendments. In any event, we propose that the planned budgetary measures from this reserve be published at least three days in advance and sent to the members of the Committee on Budgets so that better public oversight of how these funds are used is ensured. Other accompanying resolutions will be presented by colleagues who deal with them in substance. Finally, in order to finish positively, I thank the Ministry of Finance very much for the fact that it was possible to process the proposal for a compensatory bonus for the negotiators. And I believe that we will be able to discuss this on July 10 at an extraordinary meeting, which the members of the coalition and the opposition are calling for. So thank you for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u47	That was Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Skopeček. Věra Kovářová is still ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. I haven't had time to press a point of fact on my colleague Votava, so I'm going back to him, or to his performance. First of all, I would like to say that Mr Votava may not have heard it, Madam Secretary, but after his speech, I came to the speaker's desk and thanked him. I told him I appreciated his words, and I made a number of arguments why. And I'm about to see a devastating attack from my colleague Votava. Well, that's for the sake of begging the Social Democrats. That's for starters. But seriously. Mr President, you said that in the 1990s, the lights went out, it ripped off, and then it turned on. Mr. colleague, you have offended a number of citizens of the Czech Republic who, after decades of non-freedom, took their destiny into their hands, started doing business, some better, some worse, some more successful, but after decades when they did not know the word business, when they did not know the word profit, when they did not know the word risk in business. I think that you have unjustly offended just thousands of responsible, hundreds of thousands of responsible people who at that time took their destiny into their hands, and what they did in the 1990s, where the Czech Republic, not only economically after 30 years of communist totalitarianism, moved forward. I think it was a huge disrespect. I consider it a mistake that you did it, and I think it was unnecessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would sum up two words on how we work in opposition to the state budget. It's just a detective job. There's almost no information, if we want to know some information at the video conference, we'll have a dictation. I do not mean the dictation of one party, but the dictation of the Minister, who dictates individual items as the government's budget reserve of 78 billion was exhausted. When we asked her not to waste time on whether she could send us such a tablet, and two other documents, we did not receive anything like that to this day. And I must say that I am sorry, because, of course, it is our job that the opposition should have information from the media, from the press conferences of the government or from the press conferences of the various ministers, but I assume that this information should still be received when it was promised. It was at that videoconferencing with opposition parties that we asked how the government's budget reserve of nearly 137 billion will be drawn. The Minister was able to specify about 40 billion crowns. and to our reservations that this is a really high amount, the remaining, almost 100 billion, which would have remained to the government for absolute decision-making without scrutiny of the Chamber of Deputies, so unfortunately it was not able to specify at the time. And overnight, as I say, there has been a miracle - thanks to Mr Andrej Babiš, who has tabled amendments overnight to the second day. And in those amendments, items were partly specified from the government's budget reserve. Some of these items I have to say we welcome, like 12 billion. to Antivirus A and B. Of course, investment in property of municipalities and regions. Or funds for water management projects. And, of course, we also welcome the fact that basically all applications from the grant degree to de facto kindergarten and elementary schools for municipalities up to three thousand inhabitants in the grant title at the Ministry of Finance, where the item amounts to 3.1 billion. CZK increase, and of course we also welcome the fact that the same thing happened with the grant title for housing construction, I very much appreciate that. I also appreciate the Minister's comments on my question to the Committee on Budgets whether, given that, after all, the decision on granting the subsidy will in essence only now in July and the municipalities will be able to start building in August, in September, the Minister said that if the municipalities and cities are unable to comply with the deadline for implementation by the end of the year, this deadline will be postponed, just as the Ministry of Regional Development has done. So these are the items that we can say we welcome. I also feel that this is a response to our warning that it is necessary, in addition to helping those affected by the Coronavirus crisis, to quickly put money into the local economy and, of course, into major state projects. But the local economy is really important and there are a number of grant titles that have already been evaluated. A number of municipalities and cities that met the conditions of the subsidy remained under the footnote but unfortunately did not get to them. We therefore welcome this step and, at the same time, complement the amendments with the very subsidy titles where there is a large overhang. As far as our amendments are concerned, we would like to commend the fact that finally, in the budget and in that amendment by Mr Babiš, the contribution to the municipalities amounted to 12.8 billion. CZK, which responds essentially to an approved Senate proposal, and it is compensation for failures in connection with the compensation bonus. What we're sorry about is the government bailed on the edge. They are talking about this - and also in this amendment by Mr Babiš, the amount is 4 billion. on Road II. and III. classes. However, it is money that the government basically promises every year to the regions and gives it to the regions. We also have here our proposal for an amendment on the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions, which says that the money should come to the regions on a regular basis so that they can plan their investments for a few years in advance. So 4 billion. is the money that has been promised and which the government has given every year. However, the government actually bailed on the edge in connection with the outages from the compensation bonus. We want to correct this with our amendment, when we give 500 crowns per capita to the regions, i.e. a total of 5.4 billion. Another amendment... But first, before I talk about him...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. I'll get back to those parts. The Committee on Budgets on our amendment came up with the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which was: We do not support this proposal because money cannot be distributed to all. I criticized the Ministry of Finance for not considering it an expert opinion. Madam Secretary apologized to me, and I welcome that. Apology accepted, I can say I forgive, but I won't forget. When you hand out everything to everyone before the election, we'll see what opinions you'll have on your own proposals. I would now continue with other amendments. The second amendment, again, is the system of subsidy titles in the local economy, settled by a footnote, a whole series of projects that have complied with. In this case they are monuments, a grant title for the restoration of cultural monuments in municipalities, cities, but it is also for private persons, in the amount of 300 million. Crowns. Every year we try to put these funds there, and once again it's an opportunity for small and medium-sized companies, there's a great deal of work there, and I think now we have the opportunity to move the local economy. And, of course, last but not least, the third amendment gives money for local communications of 500 million. CZK again into grant titles that have already been evaluated, namely 400 million. for municipalities up to 3 thousand. population and 100 mil. over 3,000. up to 10 thousand. population. The fourth amendment is a contribution of 1 billion. CZK to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, where there is a large overhang in the grant title on safe pavements and bike paths, and there we think that the money will also be realized immediately because municipalities and cities have a building permit. The fifth amendment is such an evergreen that concerned primary schools in locations where large - or not large - needs to be built, which will be subsidized from the Ministry of Education but larger primary schools. Why are we giving this amendment? Unfortunately, in 2020 The Ministry of Finance has interrupted this grant title and hasn't issued any challenge to analyse this grant title, and it's going to be looking for evidence. I consider this to be a big mistake, because the lack of primary school capacity with the coronavirus crisis has not disappeared. And if, as the Minister has claimed, the grant title will be open in 2021, and before schools start to be realized, it will be almost a year late again. Therefore we propose that into this grant title for the construction of primary schools for municipalities up to 10 thousand. population, i.e. even for smaller municipalities, which need to build schools larger than 80 million, we propose to move the amount of 600 million. CZK, which would be divided into 2020 and continued in 2021. I firmly hope that one of the amendments could find an understanding of coalition MEPs and could be supported because it is money that can go into the local economy immediately and thus provide work for small and medium-sized companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mrs Richterová will take the floor, and Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Before Mrs Richterová gets to the counter, Mr Pavel Žáček's apologies for the whole day for his work and Mr Václav Klaus for working reasons from the beginning of the sitting day until the end. Wait until it's quiet, madam. You may be at the counter by now, but I'll wait for the House to calm down before I give you my word. Come on, let's hope it's quiet enough. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, why we are all here at this extraordinary meeting. 'Cause it feels like we've forgotten a little bit. We're here simply because of the coronavirus pandemic. And that's why we can't just talk about the budget, about not having the economy collapse, but about how the money in the budget structure will contribute to a possible second wave. As far as such a test rubbish stone is concerned, Karvinsko. Because unfortunately there is currently a breakdown of health care, there are already sick health professionals, but at the same time we are being heard as pirát by citizens from Karvinsko who have no idea how to arrange, hygiene does not give them information when their family member is quarantined, but they have not been directly in contact with the infected, and now they have a dilemma in the common home whether they who are not quarantined have a chance at 60 percent of the salary etc., should continue to work or not. I give an example of a practical example of what people are dealing with, but it has a major impact on the possible further spread of the disease. And because, as I mentioned, it's about who's officially quarantined and who's not, it's about the state budget, and it's about who we're going to be paying for as much as the state, so he can be at least a little calm, even if the revenue drop is still significant. At the moment, however, I have only noted the statements made by some politicians, who I did not like at all, who blamed the situation on irresponsible citizens. But it's not like that at all. Who is irresponsible here is, I believe, unfortunately, the state administration. And I'm going to make it more precise to the budget we're discussing today. The point is that we do not have a state or a solution to whether when people return from risky areas, whether they are somehow taken care of for the transport of houses in order not to spread the disease on the way home. Some countries have this figured out. This is about the risk of traveling in a taxi or in public transport. I have already mentioned the status of the persons sharing the household with the person with the ordered quarantine. Once again, it is about how to resolve compensation for those who, on their own responsibility, want to stay at home and take up voluntary quarantine. It also has to do with the psychological moment, if people are not sure that they will at least be taken care of in a basic way within the quarantine, so they will not be willing to communicate their contacts, they will not be willing to allow for consistent tracing. The last thing I'm going to mention is that, as far as we know, there's no readiness for a possible blackout of entire medical teams in Karvinsk. I've already said that a number of paramedics have fallen ill, some hospitals are on the edge of their capacities. Unfortunately, some of them have recently ended up in the region. And now, I wonder whether we have, as a state, whether you as a government - there is Minister Schillerová, Minister Dostálová, unfortunately there is neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Health - whether you have, for example, mobile flying teams, teams with paramedics from other regions, for example, who could represent those who are sick or quarantined. In the same way, what systemic measures regarding shift rotations and the like were taken to limit the spread among health professionals, how other sanitary stations help the locally overloaded regional health station. [[11.00 hours]] I say all this in relation to Karvinsko, but it can happen very easily that local outbreaks will occur elsewhere, and that is why we should also have a national testing plan as a Republic, including a comprehensive strategy, not only how quickly to multiply testing capacities at country level if needed, but also including financing the testing. And that brings us back to the budget. Many things are much cheaper when they are done in time than when the leadership is delayed. And it was with more extensive testing that Karvinsko was very late, despite the appeals and our regional leader Zuzana Klusová, and therefore there was a massive spread of the disease. In this context, I would like to propose an accompanying resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. The core of this resolution is that we would just like your government to prepare and present to us the national test plan, especially with regard to local outbreaks, sudden surges in capacity and the financing of testing. We also want to appeal in this resolution to increase the potential testing capacity to 30,000 tests per day, which is, for example, the capacity of a country such as Denmark, per capita. Let me recap. We're talking about the budget today, but it's about how we're going to use the budget. And if we ignore the financial costs of these health measures, unfortunately, we may not be able to avoid the possible second wave. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Leo Luzar. [[To the reporting Member of the Ožan:]] The electronic application has priority, my colleague, I can do no other. [[To Mr Luzar:]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, your Honored Fellow. What has just been said here in the budget debate is the spread of panic, my colleague. You've repeated three times here that Moravian-Silesian County's health system is collapsing. That's not true! Yes, there's been an increase in the detection of covid disease. You forgot to say it's symptomsless. That means these people have no physical symptom of this disease. They're not supposed to be hospitalized, because they're really fine. And we shouldn't be spreading panic among the citizens here that he's failing health care. That's not true. The Moravian-Silesian region is ready to deal with this situation and solve it. But we need to realize that this disease will be permanent with us, that we will not be able to get rid of it. You've been talking about people who are afraid that they might get sick or that they might spread it, they just don't want to go to work, they want to shut themselves down voluntarily. Do we want to keep this whole country isolated? I can't do this! We must approach this rationally, wisely, with the knowledge of all the risks this disease poses. But please, let's not panic. Czech health care is handling it, the signals you have, I don't know, document them, tell really which hospitals have a capacity problem. I don't think you'll find a hospital like this in the region. Therefore, let us not panic among the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Ožanová, then Mrs Richterová, with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief as always. I will not repeat what my colleague Luzar has already said, I would probably speak the same way, because I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region. However, this seemed to me that this plenary was not a platform for a regional election campaign. Please, all the time, even in the previous meetings, you mentioned the name of the leader, you claim he's collapsing with health care. Please, it's not true, it doesn't do anything, the county provides enough for everything. Maybe it'll be good if you take a look.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Now, Mrs Richterová, also with a point of fact. My colleague Martínek is ready. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad it woke you up to debate, but please don't put things in my mouth. I have pointed out that diseases are growing and that we need to have a plan and that how we can handle the situation in Karvinsko as a country will show if we are able to handle other local outbreaks. It is rational to be prepared and rational to point out that if the situation deteriorates, it is necessary to have a quick solution to the type of mobile flying teams. And why, unfortunately, do I have to remind you of this here? Because even Mrs. Chief Hygiene won't answer written questions, even though I tried to do it politely in person and then in writing. Likewise, unfortunately, the spread within the mines simply did not have to be so massive if measures occurred earlier. So the risks in OKD have been ignored and Karvinsko is actually facing a major problem. And it's rational to talk about it, to ask how it's prepared for the state, how it's prepared to support either the paramedics and the other systems, whether they're sanitary stations or others. And it's also perfectly rational to point out that the response from people who have a man's home quarantined is that the state doesn't explain it enough. When I have a husband at home who's in quarantine with reasonable suspicion that he might be infected because he came into close contact, it's rational to ask if the rest of the household should be quarantined. And those are the questions people are asking us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, Madame, it is time to make a point of fact. Mr Tomáš Martínek continues to prepare Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the motion for an accompanying resolution which I would like to put forward: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to provide sufficient supplies of protective equipment and other material within the State's material reserves to cope with the possible second wave of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus, ideally using Czech producers." As a justification, I would say: The Chamber of Deputies, with this accompanying resolution, calls on the Government to ensure, in part, the readiness of the Czech Republic for possible further waves of coronavirus. As far as possible, Czech manufacturers of protective equipment should be encouraged, or European, in order to ensure at least the basic supply of Czech health professionals, social services, vulnerable groups of residents and other people on the first line in the event of a growing global epidemic. Since March, Prusa Research has been printing facial shields as well as many volunteers throughout the Republic including pirát. She invested hundreds of thousands of crowns in the injection mold at her own expense, giving away the shields for free. Other companies include Workswell, the thermocam manufacturer, who can measure protective masks for paramedics, to which many of us contributed. On Tomáš Martínek prepared and 30 March 2020 published list of Czech manufacturers of protective equipment is over 200 Czech producers. This overview helped some authorities to find a company with which they could purchase protective equipment for their employees, health workers or citizens. The quality of Czech products is often significantly higher than the protective efficiency and quality of products imported from abroad thanks to the use of nanoairs. The Czech Republic is a superpower in nanotechnologies, which often demonstrate a high level of protection. The technical university in Liberec is the top in this area. Many Czech producers invested in their production lines to be able to cover possible state orders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u63	I thank Mr Tomáš Martínek. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka. Kateřina Valachová will be ready. So my colleague Jurečka, as I warned him, lost his order. And so we have Mrs Valachová. My colleague Valachová is next. And Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. Madam, my colleague Marian Jurečka has lost the order, so you are now in the order. [[to Ms Valachi]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, allow me, too, to make a few words about the draft budget. As I have already announced in the first reading, I want to support this budget, and I consider the proposed budget deficit to be right for this situation. I must say that, as I supported this very first-reading deficit, I have therefore received some fundamentally disagreeable responses from citizens and citizens, so I would like to go back to them and talk more accurately. Of course, none of us are happy to see an increase in the state budget deficit. No one doubts that the amount is large either. But again, I want to stress that the government rightly responds to the quite extraordinary situation of the effects of the coronavirus pandemic crisis throughout the planet. No one was ready for this. And I am actually convinced, and these are specific figures that tell us about the ability of our Antivirus government program, when really hundreds of thousands of jobs are preserved and hundreds of thousands of people continue to go to work, they can cover their life needs, support their family. And in terms of this debt, it is an investment for the government to maintain the standard of living of citizens and citizens in our Republic and, at the same time, how to target these funds to invest from this situation and to offset as quickly as possible the losses that we have at the moment as a state objectively from the point of view of a huge loss of tax revenue, because they have been to protect the health and safety of our citizens and citizens to shut down the economy. So once again, I will support the budget, including the deficit. I think it's right that it's designed for the goals that I've described. More specifically, at this stage of the budget, I would like to comment, of course, on the funds that should help us in the coming months and years to respond to the economic crisis by getting out of this as quickly as possible. Perhaps you, colleagues and colleagues, and certainly also the Minister of Finance, would be surprised if I did not intercede for the Department of Education and Investment in Education. Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance's position in the past in terms of reform of regional education funding and investment in education, because, frankly, without this action, without the completion of this action, the response to the situation in schools and how we can or cannot help is very difficult, very difficult. And only because of these actions that we have taken together can we now target direct funding for regional education and can we be sure that these amounts will go where we want, and that they will actually benefit, of course, children and their right to education, but also, of course, the working conditions of teachers and teachers at all levels of the education system. As far as the situation in the education system is concerned, I think it is really worth recalling at this point what our schools have been through in the framework of coronavirus. Frankly, such a major intervention in this service, I think, has not received any other part of the public service, because we really had to turn off real live education from one day to the next, to go into long-distance education. The conditions have changed very often and everyone has to adapt, not only children, pupils and students, but, of course, parents, teachers, teachers, so that we can ensure, as a state, the right to education of a certain quality. We've handled this situation. Thanks again to everyone involved for this. However, all the experts in education agree that, of course, there is a raised warning finger, because if this situation were to be repeated, we would already have great problems and great concerns about the quality of education for our children. That is why I think that state budget funds, including the increased deficit, should also be directed towards our schools, precisely teachers and teachers in terms of ensuring working conditions for long-distance education, and especially for our children, pupils, students, to ensure equality of access to education, and that, in the event of the return of COVID-19 from any wave, even local, our children's education is not impaired. As far as the deficit structure is concerned, we will not find, say, any special money for education or long-distance education, but we, as the Chamber of Deputies, are offering several solutions. The first solution, let's say the softest, is that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we give a note to the government, add our previous resolutions of the House to the government for long-distance education, how to proceed, how to have a plan, how to have funds for possible repetition of this crisis situation in education, but also how to have the means to cope, of course, with any inequalities in education that have arisen or have deepened in those past months during the autumn. So, let's say that's one way. The second path is the path of specific funds on the basis of specific amendments. These have been administered. As my previous speakers mentioned, one of them was supported by me. I don't think you'd expect anything else from the point of view of consistency. These amendments address, above all, the speed of funding to our schools. Of course, this is about the speed of the financial operation, because the virus is not waiting, and here experts agree that a specific increase in the so-called other non-investment expenditure would really allow us to get the money as quickly as possible, to respond as possible, while at the same time releasing the funds of the parties to municipal budgets or regional budgets, the founders of our schools, which are municipalities and regions, so that they can react quickly again to possible purchase of computers and other techniques into schools. So that's the other way. And the third way, no less effective, of course. And I have information from our government representation, both social democracy and the ANO movement, that this is definitely true. The third path is to decide operationally on the government's use of funds from the reserve, from the general treasury administration, in the coming months depending on how the situation is going to develop. However, no one doubts that hundreds of millions of crowns, say a billion, really must come to our schools, no matter what these three ways. As a Member who has long been involved in the education of children, the right of children to education and the equality of their chances, I will fully support any of these trips, any of these trips, so that schools and, above all, our children will actually receive this support in the course of their education. And I am also addressing our Minister Schillerová, the Minister of Finance, in order, of course, to react at the end of the second reading, to, say, this objective, as I say, the means may be different, but to this end she kindly expressed, so that not only children, students and pupils, teachers, teachers, but also parents had a clear path ahead of them and had no concern that the government would not respond in time and would not provide for the repetition of other waves, even local, quality education for all children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, Mrs Valachová. Now, with priority rights, Mr Marian Jurečka. A colleague of Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary. Let me also say a few of my views on this proposal at second reading. When we look at the surrounding states, such as Austria or Germany, we see, above all, in Germany, that the German government is able to do very quickly really massive support for its businesses, support that, in a significant way, gives the chance that the German economy may come out of this crisis even more strengthened. They can hold their jobs, they can protect their companies from going into bankruptcy, insolvency, so that it takes space for some of these companies to buy foreign investors from China, Russia, and so on. It is, of course, at the cost of the German government, although having record surpluses in recent years, but still has relatively high debt, which before this crisis was at the level of its debt of 60% of their GDP, so this debt will rise to 75 percent of GDP after these massive measures in Germany. [[11.20 hours]] So even these states, which we often look up to, are going through massive investment in this situation, of course, at the cost of massive debt. All of this is possible provided that we know that investments are really perfectly targeted, well thought out and have a large multiplier effect for rescuing companies, supporting their restructuring, supporting new industries, creating new jobs. And I think that the German Government has repeatedly demonstrated in its history that it is very good at taking these specific steps. That's what I think I kind of miss about our government's strategy and the material that the government is presenting to us. So I would like us not to repeat the mistakes made here from 2008 to 2012, when the government then chose a strategy of unfortunate, even blunt cuts on the border, or beyond the limits of antisocial steps that have plunged a large number of people into even greater poverty, into debt traps, etc. Yes, it is necessary to invest wisely here in this extraordinary situation - but really reasonable, and I underline this several times. So it wouldn't be throwing money out of a helicopter. Throwing money away in a situation where we do not know 100% if, even during this year, the money that we are going to allocate to some budget chapters will be able to make a meaningful investment by the ministry or by the organisation so that the money is a multiplier of our economy, which will also support the preservation or creation of jobs. I would like to mention here one important thing which may be forgotten in the light of the discussion of this proposal, but which has been a very warning signal in recent days. We're dealing with an amount around half a trillion crowns around here, with the impact that we had to shut down the economy and society for about two months. But I'm asking, how are we ready? How is the government ready to handle a possible second wave? We have significant signals over the last four days in some areas that there is an increase in the number of infections. Do we have good, well thought out measures to address this if this trend were to occur in the coming days or weeks? Smart quarantine. Is she really smart? Is it quarantine? Let's see how many weeks we've been talking about her, and let's take a look at the Karvinska area. If a smart quarantine is going to work, it really needs to be able to stop the spread that we've been dealing with for more than two weeks. I'm afraid the word and the term "smart quarantine" isn't working very well yet. And this may be illustrated by yesterday's statement by Mr. Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, which says, well, we're having beer anyway, or they're avoiding testing and so on. If we say this, it is a real threat that we may be repeating the second wave in the coming weeks or months. And we know we can't shut down the economy and society anymore. That public budgets couldn't handle it. In this context, I really appeal very much to the government to present how it can ensure a much better, more efficient functioning of measures, not only as a smart quarantine, but also measures for the possible functioning of our economy in various areas, the gastro-sector, food industry, energy, the possible onset of a second wave. Even the question of education. Now we're done with today's school year officially. And thank you, I will take this opportunity, to all the teachers who have managed the last ten months, especially the last three months. They were extremely demanding. But I ask: How are we prepared for a possible situation that would be repeated in September, October of this year? Are we going to stop the education again for a few months? With huge impacts on excluded locations, where it is found that there has been no contact between pupils and teachers for the last three months at all. That children have lost really valuable three months of education in their lives. And I would like us not to repeat this, so that the government really presents how it has learned from the Coronavirus crisis of the last three and a half months, not only in the area of securing and purchasing health protection aids, as it has learned. So that's a really big appeal. And at this time, we have strong signals to think about it, and that the government can introduce lessons and concrete steps to what it will do differently. It's not a cheap criticism, please. It's more of a powerful appeal and an incentive to get things moving. Now, on to the individual amendments. I have read an amendment concerning the adaptation of the Chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the area of extraordinary support for a specific group of seniors who receive an old-age pension. They are mainly mothers or fathers who raised their children in exclusive care, invested a huge portion of their lives in them, and these people are now valued by having statistically proven about a fifth lower pension than the average pension in the Czech Republic. First of all, these mothers are really affected for raising this generation, which is here today, thanks to which the company works here, thanks to which today's contributions to the entire state budget are. We've been talking about this for years. Even the pension commission on fair pensions and Minister Maláčová began to talk about what we have been promoting here as KDU-ČSL for the last three or four years, and this is an extraordinary contribution of CZK 500 a month to the mother's pension for every raised child. So I would like to make a reserve for this measure in the budget this year so that we can legally grant this extraordinary compensation to these parents, to these mothers. And if I pull it up to the second half of the year, that would be an amount of CZK 8 billion. We are talking about the need to support some areas of industry in the tens of billions of crowns. We are talking about it, and the government is talking about it, that it is ready to support, for example. also stays in the spa, which is, of course, appropriate, the spa sector needs it. But there's a huge group of people who have a problem these months that they're falling below the poverty line, they're having trouble paying their bills. Dramatically, the impact of extremely fast-growing inflation is manifesting itself in the elderly group, and it is necessary to systematically offer these people a helping hand. This is one of the tools that leads to this. So please, I would very much like this amendment, which increases this allocation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by CZK 8 billion, to be supported by the House. Furthermore, I would also like to propose accompanying resolutions. There are four that I have also read into the amendment. It is the first resolution by which the House asks the Government to submit detailed implementation of the State budget for the first half of 2020, by the end of June 2020. I think it is appropriate for Members who vote to increase the deficit by 200 and 300 billion. Subsequently, they received a detailed account of how the first half of the money was spent and used in this deficit. Then there is the second resolution that I ask the Government to present and present a clear budget implementation in the second half of this year, so that after each closed month, within five days of the following month, we and the public will receive a detailed implementation of the state budget. Then I also ask that we, as Members, have a medium-term perspective on how the government is thinking in the light of this crisis. I understand it's very difficult. It's very hard to predict the data, but other governments around us are trying to. And I think it is important that we know the government's thinking precisely with regard to possible deficits over the next three years. So I ask that the government present the medium-term outlook updated for 2021 to 2023, by the end of September 2020. And the last, fourth resolution, which I think is absolutely appropriate when, in a situation when we are going through some kind of crisis, whether at family level or at company level, or a small businessman, so in addition to finding how we can boost our incomes, how we can get some contracts, how we can work better, and how we can logically look for how we can save somewhere, how we can be more efficient. How to reduce your consumption etc. where it's absolutely necessary and it won't put us at risk. So I ask in this fourth resolution that the Government submit to the House a proposal for effective savings in the budget of the various chapters in 2020, by the end of July 2020. [[11.30 hours]] I don't want blunt cuts, no antisocial cuts, but I want there to be a clear will that in the area of outsourcing, IT services, legal services, etc. have been able to find effective savings by individual resorts and individual authorities under those resorts. I do not want savings where it is investment money to support our economy, to support the things that we have to do in this state, whether it be the construction of express roads, motorways and the like, whether it be the support of small firms, whether it be the financing of cities and municipalities that we have approved, whether it be the support of even the negotiators that we have been trying for the last three months - but where the money is not necessarily needed where it does not threaten, it will not reduce the performance of the government, and where it will lead to greater efficiency, for example by reducing the organisational structure, by reducing the number of executives. These are the simplest measures that bring savings. I want the government to present such savings and a plan for these savings for this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u67	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, then Mr Skopeček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the meeting of the subcommittee on regional education held last week and where we discussed the resolution, the accompanying resolution, which was read here by the Committee on Budgets and which concerns online teaching. My colleague Valachová has already said many things. On the subcommittee, we discussed the quantity at all. Here we asked the Union of Towns and Municipalities for a survey between founders and schools about their shortcomings. In fact, in March from day to day, all schools were thrown into online teaching, whether they were prepared for it or not, and this survey revealed that if it were in cities and municipalities, it would have been, they would have been interested in up to 400,000 pieces of technology for the needs of pupils. If we look at the numbers of the Czech School Inspectorate, which concluded that 157 thousand children did not participate in online teaching during spring, we can reduce this number and not every case that they did not participate in teaching was due to lack of technology. So it is roughly up to 150,000 pieces of technology for schools for the needs of online teaching, for pupils, for lending to pupils so that they can participate in this online teaching, i.e. a laptop, or tablet, even with Internet connection, which is a pretty key factor. And this would be the total amount of CZK 1.5 billion for one piece up to 10,000. Further, as we have acted, this is a need for teachers in the technique for online education. Here it was said that there is currently a need for about 100,000 pieces of technology for teachers in schools, with 40 percent to be considered, 40 thousand pieces to be purchased during the summer. I say these numbers mainly because if the second wave comes and the schools are again at online teaching, then these numbers, 40,000 pieces of technology for teachers, 150,000 pieces of equipment for pupils need to be equipped by autumn. We also discussed the ways in which this could be done. There are several ways. She and her colleague Valachová have outlined some of them. So, for these reasons too, we appeal to the Minister to go to school. The way we did it in the spring is one thing. Now the question is how we will prepare for the autumn, and for this reason I can say that we will support both the amendment to ONIV and the accompanying resolution on the purchase of computers and equipment for online teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u69	I thank Mr Lukáš Bartoň. Now Mr Skopeček in the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u70	Thank you very much. Although I have spoken in factual remarks, there are only a few comments in the general debate on the budget. In my opinion, the proposed amendment to the budget shows that the government can't rule, that it can't manage public finances. I am convinced that she could not manage even before the coronavirus, when she realized relatively high budget deficits at a time of decent economic growth, and as it shows that after a few months and weeks we have a third amendment to the state budget, so it is clear that the government, however far as public finances are not managed and government access to public finances is clueless and leaves public finances and state budget for destiny, leaves the budget and public finances at the mercy of the government. None of us is suggesting that this year's budget deficit could be zero, or that perhaps we could have an surplus budget. It is clear to all that the frozen economy for a number of weeks will mean an economic downturn, which will undoubtedly push the budget into deficit, both because of the decline on the income side, the decline in income, and because of the rising expenditure that is necessary to help those affected by the coronavirus in the social field and in helping the economy. However, the deficit that is being proposed today, namely the deficit of 500 billion, is truly astronomical and will lead to an enormous increase in debt within one year. I've said this before, but if we do the math, within one year, the government of the ANO movement and the Social Democrats, supported by the communists, will owe this state, or every citizen, including infants and seniors, 50 thousand crowns. The deficit, in order to realise how huge the figure is, is about 10 percent of the gross domestic product last year. So everything companies and people have created in the past year, about 10 percent of what the government wants to do in debt from year to year. Nor does the rhetoric of the government change that, after all, repeats itself every year when the Minister presents deficit budgets. And it doesn't change the rhetoric that the government wants - or says it wants - to invest from the crisis. It's a lie. It's not true. The government does not want to invest out of this crisis. In the context of this huge deficit, the government wants to prolong itself in this crisis. Unfortunately, this does not work in the economy and we will not get out of the crisis by prolonging the Czech economy. This is only from the economic crisis, from the economic downturn we will move into the debt crisis, and we all remember well how it dealt with the stability of the eurozone, which also fell into the debt crisis after the economic crisis. I will not remind here that the government, which says that it wants to invest itself out of the crisis, still against, relatively against total spending, has been able to invest less than right-wing governments in recent years at a time of economic recession, and I do not think that coronavirus is some magical wand that the government will wave and suddenly free up building regulation, spatial planning, removing all kinds of ecological pressure groups that block a number of important infrastructure structures in the Czech Republic, and suddenly building really needed infrastructure from one day to the next through public spending or public investment. That's what I think we're lying in our pockets, and that the rhetoric around investment is just trying to cover up, or cover up the huge deficit, and that's the huge debt of our children and future generations. The huge deficit proposed by the government is beating in the eye compared to the amount of real support that the government has managed to get into the economy so far. From the promised more than a trillion-dollar aid to the Czech economy after the coronation, only tens of billions of dollars have reached the economy, entrepreneurs, households. I say only in quotation marks, but in the context that we have heard government officials, from Prime Minister to Minister of Finance, Minister of Industry and Transport and other members of the government, to talk about more than a trillion aid to the Czech economy and those few tens of billions of crowns, which, relatively slowly and with great administrative obstacles, have managed to get into the real economy, is indeed a grain of the promised more than a trillion aid. [[11.40 hours]] That view of the huge deficit of CZK 500 billion could perhaps be more lenient at a time when the government would try to help the economy by significantly reducing the tax burden in the Czech Republic. And I really think in the context of that experience, when the state proved to be a very rigid institution that had really big problems, and has big problems, getting money from public budgets to the real economy, so I thought that the government would learn and instead of inventing new spending programs, which proved to be very complex and imposing large administrative barriers to those to whom it should aim that the government would learn from this dysfunction of state institutions and bet on a simpler recipe, namely to leave money in people's purses, leaving them for their spending, leaving them for their business through tax cuts. It would certainly be a better way to restart the economy, a faster path, a fairer path than money first to collect and redistribute it back into the economy through a rigid, slow, rebaratized state. Unfortunately, there is no tax reduction in the Czech Republic, although we have, for example, the highest rate of value added tax on food and not just on food. When you compare both VAT rates with our neighbors, you will find that we are really expensive both in comparison with Germany, Austria, Poland and Slovakia. In the case of VAT being referred to as one of the taxes that would undoubtedly help to start consumption, and we could thus be inspired by Germany and Austria, which have acceded to this pro-growth step in recent days, we will, instead of having a serious debate about having high VAT rates, be able to deal with this by attacking the foreign chains and ending the entire debate on the possible VAT reduction. I really believe that even in the context of a relatively above-average tax burden in the Czech Republic, in the context that we actually have high taxes in terms of VAT compared to others, especially neighbors, there is room for us to reduce these taxes for even a limited period of time. And I add fair and square that we need to discuss taxes comprehensively. I will accept the criticism that one type of tax, such as VAT, cannot be pulled out and compared to others and not look at property, income, etc. taxes. However, because consumption is undoubtedly an important part of gross domestic product and that we need to save consumption in the same way as investment in some way, the value added tax seems to me to be an appropriate tool to thaw and run the Czech economy. I also think, and in fact, even with the first amendment to the state budget, I proposed a resolution which would oblige the government to make at least elementary savings on operating expenditure in individual chapters of the state budget, except for those chapters that contributed to the corona crisis and, respectively, its solution, whether it was the Ministry of Interior, Defence, Health, so I proposed a resolution that would commit the government to savings. Unfortunately, this resolution has not passed, yet I will allow myself to give a few tips to the Minister of Finance, where it would be possible to save money immediately, whether it is discount on fare, which is richly subsidized from the state budget, whether it is vacant tables on individual ministries, which improve the Ministry of Finance, whether it is a variety of subsidies that distort the market, and I do not only mean subsidies for Agrofert, even if they should be concerned, whether they are operating expenditures of individual state institutions. These are precisely the areas where you could immediately save quite large amounts, and the government would show that it did not really leave public finances, the budget to save, that it just doesn't look at the torn train that is rushing into an ever-increasing deficit every month. I've already said this at previous readings, none of us are happy about the crisis, but any crisis is also an opportunity to bounce away from the bottom and get rid of what has held us back in the past, which has not pushed us forward in the past. And I believe, if we look at the thousands of civil servants that the state has accepted in its service over the years and must pay them from public budgets when we look at all kinds of subsidies that are unfair, costs huge money, perverts the market, and one entrepreneur first has to make money to redistribute other entrepreneurs on the basis of some bureaucratic key, these are things that could be cut at the moment, and the oversized state must make a reduction diet. The state was as big as it was, as much fat as it put on, sick. And I think that the crisis is a good opportunity for the state to take a reduced diet and think about its lifestyle, change its lifestyle, and experience years of further health and hope for a better functioning for its citizens. Unfortunately, the government is not taking advantage of this, and all this inefficient spending that is holding us back, and it is obviously holding back, it wants to preserve this budget and add more to it. And as we all know the so-called effect of the latch, the extra spending that the government will spend in this crisis will be borrowed very difficult in the future. In this crisis, there was an opportunity to do that inventory of expenditure. After all, one of the civil democrats' resolutions is heading in this direction, because we believe that the problem of the public finances of the Czech Republic is on the expenditure side of the state budget, on the expenditure side of public finances, and the spending side of public finances, its long-term structural problem, is unfortunately continuing to deepen, and instead of actually stepping up with the smaller, more efficient state that will serve people, we want to preserve the vast remaining state. And in my opinion, it will not do any good to the citizens of the Czech Republic and to what they want from the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, Mr Skopečka. This was the last one entered in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. Yes, Mr Vít Kaňkovský in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u72	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear fellow Members, allow me to make a few comments on the second reading of the amendment to the State Budget Act. As has been said many times today, the main issue of this proposal is an increase in the state budget deficit as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic. We could probably argue for a long time whether an increase in the state budget deficit is already necessary at the moment, whether the aid that the government is addressing towards the needed segments of the economy, towards the families, towards the elderly, is sufficient and whether it is also effective. I don't want to have this discussion here. It would be political throughout the debate and I think that a whole series of arguments on either side have already been made here today. I would like to mention two areas that I think do not even address this bill, two areas that I think are not yet resolved. This area is also mentioned several times, and not only by me, but also by colleagues, so many times promised rewards to health professionals for their deployment at the time of the first wave of COVID-19 infection in our country. The paramedics were on the front line, and I'm sure no one doubts that. They were not alone, we know that there were workers in social services, but police officers, paramedics and so on. [[11.50 hours]] In the first wave, especially in the weeks when panic and fear in the Czech population were at the highest level, the Prime Minister and Minister Vojtěch repeatedly made promises to high-level health professionals. Unfortunately, if we come to reality, at this point, the rewards are addressed to the paramedics. I'm sure it belongs to the government to thank you for that, and I'm glad that's really going to happen in the next few days, that's certainly a good thing. But if we're talking about other health professions that would definitely deserve those rewards, and they had them promised, it's already much, much weaker here. A smaller part of health care workers in directly managed health care organizations, which are under the Ministry of Health, received some rewards. We have specific examples from many of them, we have seen some paychecks. And I'm not convinced the rewards were really on a decent level. They certainly weren't on that promised level. As far as other health establishments are concerned, there has been a promise that this will take place by means of a compensatory payment order. As you know, it is already sent to the Collection. But as I could see its parameters, most health care establishments will not have room on the basis of this compensation payment decree promised rewards to their health professionals deployed in the fight against COVID-19 to give. I have repeatedly called on the Minister of Health to prepare a grant title under the Ministry of Health, which would enable health care professionals to pay their fees as promised. It has been said repeatedly here on the Health Committee that the Ministry of Health does not have the apparatus for this, that the Ministry of Health does not know these grant titles. And now the situation is that the state budget has promised support to the amendment from the KSČM workshop. And now I'm not criticizing that it's from the KSČM workshop. The amendment prepared by my colleague Aulická, and I thank her for preparing it, which should at least bring some funding to the health professionals. I just want to ask why, when we have repeatedly, not just through my mouth, called on the government, by the Minister of Health, to prepare the grant title, why it was repeatedly discussed that it could not be done. And all of a sudden, there's an amendment that should be able to do that? In spite of all this, I say for KDU-ČSL that we will support this amendment by Aulická Jírovcová, because we believe that promises are to be fulfilled. Unfortunately, however, I believe that the amount proposed there will not be enough for the promised rewards to be paid at the level that those rewards should be paid. Still, it is a good thing there is such an amendment. And I believe that the government will still consider further steps in terms of budgetary change, because there can be a really second wave, which we do not want, but if we have health workers disappointed in our bed facilities in particular, it will certainly not help us in the possible second wave. And I don't want to paint that on the wall. I just think if you make a promise, it's meant to be kept. And then I'm going to mention a second area that has nothing to do with COVID-19. During this parliamentary term, we have argued several times over how to finance social services in this country. It was during the discussion of the budget for 2018, 2019, 2020. We've always been here to quote some sums. Last year we even had several extraordinary meetings here, or extraordinary points at the ongoing meetings, and it was not until the course of the year that social services were being financed. And how many times it has been a very unwanted and undignified squabbling about how money is to get to the needed services, both residential and field services that help families in the care of seniors or disabled people. Unfortunately, there was no consensus on the state budget for 2020. Providers and in the first part of the budget discussion the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs demanded the allocation of CZK 19 billion. Finally, after some concessions and relatively difficult discussions, CZK 17.5 billion was approved. So the deficit of CZK 1.5 billion remains here. And if the government now funds CZK 5.2 billion in social services under emergency measures, it may seem optically that everything is resolved. But it's not solved. The 5.2 billion will cover the promised rewards for social service workers, which, of course, is fine. Part of this will cover the increased cost of a hygienic-epidemiology regime, which was not only in the most tense weeks of the first wave of infection, but which must remain in some form in the coming weeks and months of this year. And these costs for providers are quite high. This means that the internal deficit of CZK 1.5 billion will certainly not cover this budgetary change here. That is why we have prepared an amendment under the KDU-ČSL, which would make the deficit of CZK 1.5 billion the most impact on organisations and social services providers who are not established by the regions, municipalities, cities, in particular non-profit organisations, so that they do not have to reduce their activities towards seniors, towards disabled people. I think it would be very, especially at this time, very bad if there had to be some reduction in the particular field services that families need most. I propose an increase of CZK 1.5 billion in the amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. And I would like to ask you at this stage to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Now, in the general debate, the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. The esteemed two ministers, esteemed colleagues, I think that even today's participation in the hearing signals how clueless the material is that there is hardly anything to be done with it. [[There are only a few Members sitting individually in the benches.]] Most of you have taken note that a record deficit of CZK 500 billion will be approved. At times, some have thrown themselves at the prey, and the amendments remind me of the period when the bear is cut, because the vast majority of the amendments point to what we would do, what kind of expenditure we would still do. I understand that political reality is relentless and the deficit is fixed. I think it's clear that this is how the negotiations are going to end. I have noticed the Minister's questioning the proposals of the Social Democrats, on the contrary, supported the proposals of the Communists. It just shows who has what political power. But it's not really relevant in the debate. Even the Communist proposal, I think it's worth $2 billion, can't improve the amendment in any way. We have decided quite consciously that we will not be submitting any amendments at this time because, in our opinion, the amendment proposal cannot be improved, I have already said in the first reading, and I will certainly look into it in more detail at the third reading. He's pointing to the government's utter cluelessness. Yes, when one of the disabled calls, the government's reaction comes, sometimes in the order of days, sometimes in the order of weeks, sometimes in the order of months, and almost always falls out of it a new grant title. This is not an elaborate economic policy. This is no plan to help the Czech economy and we therefore cannot support this amendment. We're not voting for her at third reading. However, in order not only to remain critical, but to present an alternative plan, another solution, and in this case a real plan, and in addition to the resolutions referred to by President Fiala, which tends to call on the government to do the work that we assumed the government would do without some House resolution, such as spending audit, reduction of bureaucratic burdens, abolition of supergross wages and so on, our plan, both to help the Czech economy and to call it a rescue circle for the Czech economy, is completely different. [[12.00 hours]] We have taken the number that the government wants to increase spending at the moment, it is roughly 136 billion, and we say yes against the government spending, there is a need to help the Czech economy, and the best help is to leave this money to taxpayers. Whether those who do business, tradesmen, employers, employees, or, in general, all taxpayers. They'll know a lot better if we let them have about 140 billion in their corporate budgets or their home cash registers, their home wallets, how to invest the money, what to spend it on. And this could be a real impulse for the Czech economy, so that there is no risk of secondary insolvency, so that even healthy companies that would have no problem without this crisis are not affected. That is why we are presenting at the moment and will present all nine legislative proposals next week. And you know very well that changes in legislation cannot be made to the draft state budget, that we cannot propose this in the context of this law, so I will mention the two that are in progress, and the seven new ones that we will submit and put into the system at the latest next week. The first group proposes to leave money to employees, people in general, taxpayers. Yes, the government has already moved on, and we have here - or at least I hope we can get back to the House Press 254. In a few weeks it will be two years since it's in the House of Deputies system. It is the abolition of a supergross wage and the introduction of an equal tax on income from dependent activity respectively. equal income tax on natural persons at 15 per cent. On average, this would increase employees' net income by 7 percent, effectively leaving taxpayers CZK 60 billion a year. It is much more effective help for the Czech economy than the fictitious grant titles that the government is preparing. And I believe that the government will come to the same conclusion as the other proposal that we have unsuccessfully tabled here five times, and that is the proposal to abolish the property acquisition tax. Madam Secretary now looks like the battalion, like the one who proposes the solution to abolish this tax. We will, of course, support it when it is our proposal, with the amendment, of course, to maintain a deductible item for mortgage interest. This proposal could leave around CZK 13 billion in the taxpayers' pocket. We've already got 73 billion to keep to the taxpayers. Very often - and this is a very important debate - we have discussions on how to maintain existing jobs or how to promote the emergence of new jobs. The government has prepared Antivirus A, B, C. If I were to evaluate those three, from my point of view, the best Antivirus C that supports those who go to work is the best Antivirus C. I'm just reminding you, the antivir a and B creates support for those who don't go to work. Not by my own fault, I'm not saying it's their fault, they're in the way of the employer. That means it's not the employees' fault. But the government isn't trying to create conditions for them to find some effective use of their experience, their abilities, their qualities. We will therefore come up with a proposal to extend the Antivirus C by four months by the end of the year. We do not want to change the parameters of this proposal, we tried to do so when we first discussed it in the Chamber of Deputies, but there was some sort of majority opinion. So our proposal will be quite simple. We propose to discuss it in accordance with § 90, which means that the remission of social insurance for employers, for firms up to 50 employees with those parameters and with those conditions that are already valid today, that is to say 90 per cent of the retention of the number of jobs, at least 90 per cent of the wage volume and the prohibition of co-operation with Antivira A and B, applied under the same conditions until the end of the year. We could thus support 88 percent of employers by the end of the year and they could save CZK 18 billion. I'm based on government figures that it's about 4.5 billion a month. We'll see if that number is real or not when we're past the first month. So we had 73, plus another 18 billion, which would remain to companies to pay wages, to order, to pay their liabilities, and not to create a second default. Generally, and all international comparisons prove that we have too high a cost of work. So our next proposal is aimed at reducing social security for employers and employees by 2 percentage points, which, in our calculations, is about 2.5 billion a month, which this year, if this were true from 1 September, would be 10 billion, which we could leave to employers next year, 30 billion. This is an area measure that would, of course, also save money on the expenditure side, which employers in the public sector pay, including all ministries and all organisations linked to the ministries, central public authorities, but also to the budgets of the regions and municipalities, because the two percent would apply to all. And once again these employers would have this 10 billion this year and next year 30 billion available to keep jobs, or to keep wages, or to raise them or create a new job. We talk about part-times very often. I think it is an excellent institute, but at the moment there is no economic stimulus for employers to do so. Yes, many enlightened employers do so, allowing part-time jobs, but they have more bureaucracy than if they had full-time jobs. We propose that every half-hour of short-term social security be reduced by 0.25 percentage points. In order to support business and self-employed workers, we will again propose just as simply an extension of the period during which the State has forgiven the minimum advances on social and health insurance. Today, this is true until the end of August for the period March to August, and we propose that this should also apply in the months September to December, which could save businesses around 10 billion spending. So far, we only have the results available for May, when estimates of reduced choice are both health and social insurance. At the same time, we will propose a comprehensive forgiveness of road tax for 2020. I know they've been through some reliefs, but I think we might be able to forgive the road tax for about the amount of $5 billion in 2020. In the same way, we will propose a complete remission of income tax for self-employed persons in 2020. [[Minister of Finance - a comment from the rapporteur's desk.]] Madam Secretary is proposing further steps, but let her suggest it herself, I don't have anything like that here. And the last, ninth legislative proposal, which we think of especially the non-profit sector, is a proposal to increase the deduction of donations to 30% for both natural and legal persons. This bill is ready and, at this point, we are trying to get support for this proposal as well as for Members from other MPs than the Civic Democrats' MP. In other words, it is a concrete plan to leave some 130 or 140 billion to taxpayers. I think that is exactly the impulse the Czech economy needs. This represents nine legislative proposals. And I firmly believe that if not for all of them, we will find majority support for many of them in the Chamber of Deputies. Because the question is basically simple when we examine these proposals. Who knows better how to invest this money? Our citizens, our businessmen, our businesses, our employers, or the government, or the Chamber of Deputies that approve state budget expenditure? For us, for civil democrats, I am responsible without hesitation simply and clearly - the taxpayer knows this much better than any government and much better than any Chamber of Deputies in any political composition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. President Stanjura was the last to be entered in the general debate. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one applies to the general debate, so I am ending it. I do not see interest in the final words after the general debate. Then I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons, Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček from 11.45 until the end of the meeting day for work reasons. I am opening up a detailed debate. The first enrollment is Mr.František Navrkal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendment which I submit together with Members Farský, Kolářík, Výborný, Čižinský and Okamura. I hereby thank them for their support. This proposal is listed in the system under number 5926 and I have justified it in the document itself and in the general debate. I thank in advance all my colleagues and colleagues who will support this amendment with their vote at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u77	Now with priority rights Vice-President Petr Fiala in a detailed debate. Then with the priority right of rapporteur Jan Volný. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the general debate, I have justified the accompanying resolutions that we want to approve this proposal. I introduced you to their content and, at the same time, I inserted them into the system as House document 5922. I hereby declare myself to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Now with the priority right of rapporteur Jan Volný in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, coworkers, I'm sorry I took advantage of the priority rights. I'm old, I'm stupid, I forget. To remember, I ask this honored House to reduce the time to discuss between second and third reading to seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u81	Yes, thank you. Mr Václav Votava, Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 5895, which is therefore my joint amendment, Kateřina Valachová and Alena Gajdůškovášková. It is proposed in this amendment to strengthen Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the expenditure indicator the expenditure of regional education and directly managed by organisations by 1.5 billion. CZK 1.5 billion and this amount is 1.5 billion. also humiliate chapter 398 of the VPS in the government budget reserve indicator. I would like to say that, at a time when schools were restricted due to coronavirus, thousands of children did not have technical equipment for long-distance education, or the equipment was insufficient. However, the State is obliged, of course, to provide access to education for children, pupils and students, and the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is not sufficiently fulfilled in the long term in the part of other non-investment expenditures, so-called. ONIV. We therefore need a quick solution, and we therefore propose to increase ONIV by CZK 1 billion and at the same time increase by CZK half a billion in expenditure to regional education of local authorities in order to allow schools to guarantee sufficient support to children, pupils and students for long-distance education, particularly textbooks, software, computers, connection, through ONIV adjustment during the financial year 2020 and an extraordinary subsidy programme according to the regional regional breakdown to purchase computers where they are urgently absent in schools. So much for the amendment under number 5895. I myself tabled an amendment, which is under number 5843. It relates to the Administration of State Material Reserves, where the chapter is thus increased by 460 million. The amount of CZK 150 million. food safety will be strengthened. So it will be dedicated to the security of food commodities. Next, 250 miles. then it will be as an increase for the underfunded logistics of the Material Reserves Administration, meaning, for example, for the purchase of container tanks for drinking water, fire vehicles, electric central. Just for logistics. And 60 miles. CZK should go to the remediation of the flooded warehouse of state material reserves in Heřman's Town. Surely you all remember the problem that these floods have caused in the Administration of State Material Reserves. So much for two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Mrs Lucie Šafránková, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up with my two amendments, which I have already justified in the general debate and are under the number of the Houses of Documents 5886 and 5887. And thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - instead Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u86	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize for being a somewhat imperfect substitute for my colleague, but I may still be able to handle the task. If you don't mind, I would like to sign up for two amendments under her authority. The first amendment has the number under which it was inserted into the system, 5927 and, in substance, it relates to 300 miles. CZK from the government budget reserve, which would move to the Ministry of Education to the so-called other non-investment expenditure of primary schools. They are digital textbooks, use of schools in nature, etc. So that's one amendment. And the second amendment, that is 2 billion, has been discussed here in the general debate, from government budget reserves, and is aimed at salaries and rewards for health professionals, both in health care and in social services. So these two amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. And you're also logged in, Mr. Ambassador, so go ahead. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u88	Yes, thank you. Therefore, I would like to embark on my own amendment. It was inserted into the system under number 5890. It has already been discussed by the Committee on Budgets, which has taken an understanding position on it in the sense that it has stated that it has stated the diction of this amendment and I have to say in a relatively consensual atmosphere, with the fact that the amendment is actually an accompanying resolution, a motion for an accompanying resolution, asking the Government for two things: First, to develop the concept of consolidation of public finances for the period 2021 to 2027 and to submit to the Chamber of Deputies within 30 September 2020. The second issue is to provide funding in the area of regional education for the acquisition of school equipment so that teachers in schools are able to carry out online teaching in the event of further restrictions and it is possible, if necessary, to arrange equipment for pupils who do not yet have the appropriate equipment and instructs the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports to keep this resolution under constant control and to present the outcome of this inspection to the House by 9 October 2020 at the latest. As far as distance teaching is concerned, I think that was also said in the discussion. With regard to this recommendation towards the concept of consolidation, allow me just a few arguments as justification, because I did not speak in the general debate. First of all, the seven-year term was chosen because you might remember that on 22 April we ended the legislative process over the amendment to the Budgetary Responsibility Act, where the structural deficit indicator was disbanded and where it was about not being forced to make corrections at all, and therefore to compose accounts in this sense and to European authority, so a certain fiscal space was created that allowed the deficit to move in the range of 4 percent of nominal GDP plus revenue for the next year and then gradually decreased between 2022 and 2027 by half a percentage point per year. That's the space. And now, of course, it's a nice plan, but it's just some kind of arithmetic operation. And now, of course, it is extremely important how this space will be used and whether there is real danger that if we run out of it quite quickly, that is, it can happen from 2021 to 2022, so we will not go dangerously near the threshold of the debt brake. [[zoom in?]] For the simple reason I see here a chance at a debate that would disprove the suspicions that have been falling here since morning, to what extent we are able to invest in the crisis, to what extent we are capable of, or have to cut ourselves out of the crisis, or whether there is a debt spiral, or even a standard debt trap that occurs when interest on debt somehow exceeds the potential of the economy, i.e. essentially nominal growth of gross domestic product. Those exemplary cases exist in the world, and I don't want to scare them, but we need to remember this extreme situation as well. [[12.20 hours]] In fact, this period goes beyond this term, or it is actually a discussion of a future budgetary strategy, where we have to talk about what the possibility of working with the revenue side of public finances is, to what extent the taste and courage to change the structure of tax revenues will be, to innovate their functions, whether fiscal, allocation or regulatory. To what extent we will be able to cope with some structural burdens during this period, whether it is public health bailout or the sustainability of the pension system, where we will undoubtedly have to create certain budgetary reserves for what awaits us in the pension field - just the population is ageing, etc. Including system savings, because when you just cut with a pencil, you actually create a kind of boomerang effect, because what you save one year, the second year will come back to you, and maybe sometimes more expensive, or system savings. And, of course, for spending, if we want to invest, support growth and possibly support demand, the specific multiplier effects. If, in the media, I noticed that it was said that in this respect the Treasury would be under a bit of pressure that it was a bit of a gallows deadline. I think it's only a good thing that a little bit of an executive's equipment gets excited over the summer, because this isn't about us approving it, just how it's going to be for the seven years. Of course, I can't do that. In 2021, a new government with a new political mandate will take place, etc. But at least we'll make a map of how we can move in that fiscal space, what measures we can expect in a mix. The outlook for 2022 and 2023 must also be drawn up logically with the draft budget for 2021. That's a duty. But we'll get that on the table with the budget no later than October 30th. But these considerations within some kind of analytical material, I think it would be good if they landed in Parliament on September 30th. After all, the course of things is that when Parliament's press becomes some kind of informative character on September 30th, before we discuss it, but also in special bodies, it means committee, subcommittee etc., we have the whole autumn for this discussion, and it certainly doesn't hurt if this discussion is prepared and as useful as possible, although I understand that its political dimension will make it difficult to create consensus on sensitive questions in a way, but the overpressure will wear off. Let us just say that we have here very critical reports of the National Budget Council on long-term sustainability. We've already got two on the wait list, now we've got three. No matter how we evaluate them, the discussion is postponed, but I think we need this kind of discussion. That is why I welcome the fact that, on the one hand, there was a kind atmosphere for the Committee on Budgets, and I have noted in the media that it is not rejecting this idea and the accompanying resolution thus formulated and neither the Minister of Finance, for which I personally thank her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. Mrs Monika Jarošová and Mr Lubomír Španěl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor. I hereby subscribe to my amendment under number 5891, which I explained in detail in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Španěl, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for our three amendments, which I, together with my fellow Member, Mr Jan Hrnčíř, have tabled. And since I, like Mr Dolejš, skipped the general debate, maybe just a little more. Something like what I said at the press conference today. We are very concerned about the debt ratio planned by this government without trying to find possible savings on the budget spending side. And now for the amendments. The amendment, which is registered under number 5892, where we propose to reduce the contribution to the EU budget by 20 billion, because we believe that funds should remain at home in the Czech economy at a time of crisis. Another amendment under number 5894, where we propose to reduce the funds allocated in the chapter of the Office of the Government for some non-state, often politicised nonprofits - in more detail this is in the explanatory memorandum. Third, Amendment 5893. We propose that we reduce excessive funds spent on inclusion in education, which have not yet produced positive results, namely 2 billion. We intend to transfer any funds we may have spared, or we propose to transfer them to a government debt settlement. Thank you for your support and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am applying to my amendments, these are the proposals to reduce the general government deficit by 11, 16 or 25 billion. These can be found in the system under number 5914, 5915 and 5916. I also refer to the accompanying resolutions, which I also explained in more detail in the general debate - on the clicking budget, on the transparency of the management of the government's budget reserve and on the speeding up of work to unify the collection of social insurance and personal income tax and health insurance. These are House documents 5918, 5919 and 5920. I also report for the accompanying resolution prepared by my colleague Radek Holomčík, who is excused today, and I recorded it in the system under number 5925. It concerns the situation of the Czech Forests and the problem of this company in connection with the draining of a huge amount of funds from this company and consequently the problem with bark sludge. You will find the reasons directly in the accompanying resolution. Finally, I will apply for the accompanying resolution, which was uploaded into the system by my colleague Tomáš Martínek, who is at another event in the House which is now under way, and therefore cannot load it personally. It is a resolution under number 5917 concerning the provision of protective equipment in case of other problems with coronavirus. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová is next, Mrs Olga Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to our amendments. The first amendment is under number 5905 and concerns an increase in the contribution for the regions to 5.4 billion. CZK, due to the fact that they were not compensated for the failure due to the compensatory bonus. The second amendment is under number 5906 and gives 300 million to monuments. CZK, i.e. into the grant title, which is already evaluated, and the footnote remained projects that succeeded but were not money for them. The third amendment, which is under number 5907 and concerns an increase to the subsidy title for local communications for municipalities up to three thousand and ten thousand inhabitants in the total amount of 500 million. Crowns. The fourth amendment, which is held under number 5908 and again puts 1 billion in grant titles settled by a large overhang on SFDI. CZK and it is on safe pavements and bike paths. And the fifth amendment is under number 5928 and gives money to build elementary schools for a grant title at the Ministry of Finance, totaling 600 million. Crowns. [[12.30 hours]] Let me also state that, following the Minister's call, I have done this to discuss any amendments. I have already handed over the documents to the Minister in which our amendments will evolve, and wonder to the world, on Friday's budget committee, the Minister has already stated that everything is already in the lists which have been supplied by both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development, and that these issues are being addressed. So I'm just gonna be happy if that's the case. If these amendments are reflected in the points that are in Mr Babiš's amendment, for example. at the Ministry of Regional Development, investment in property of regions and municipalities, or just at the SFDI, if these amendments are taken into account there, as well as for example. in the chapter General Treasury Administration, funds to support the public sector, where there is still about 6 billion left. koruna, if these amendments of ours appear there, I will be glad. The Minister basically has my permission, although he does not need it, to alienate such good amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. It is Mrs Olga Richterová's turn in a detailed debate. Mr Tomáš Martínek will not speak, Mr Ferjenčík has already signed up for his proposals, so then it will be Mr Marian Jurečka's turn. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor. I am here to read the accompanying resolution, which I have already justified in the general debate. The point is that we would like the government to use some of the government's budget reserves to prepare and further develop those national testing capacities. It is the simple fact that knowing where the virus of the current type of coronavirus or whatever else is will allow us to manage any possible pandemic in the future. As for the reasons for the resolution, which I will make once more, I would like to stress that the targeted test capacity of 30,000 tests a day, to which we have long-term appeals, is the future that we have to resolve now, so this capacity corresponds to, for example, the possibilities that Denmark has today, and such Luxembourg is also well above this capacity. We are able to achieve this, but it takes coordination efforts and clear words about funding. And as for the government's not-so-conceived measures, it will also be necessary to focus budgetaryly on how to address, for example, the status of people who are in a common household with a person who has a quarantine or how to proceed comprehensively when there is a significant local focus, how to strengthen the area from other regions and how to pay for increased testing costs, etc. The motion for a resolution accompanying me is as follows: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to prepare the necessary infrastructure for any wider population testing, namely the presence of a disease caused by a new type of coronavirus. Infrastructure should be prepared for at least 30,000 tests a day. Second point: The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to prepare a national test plan following the infrastructure, especially for local outbreaks and the financing of testing. The proposal's number 5923. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u99	Thank you, ma'am. President Marian Jurečka in a detailed debate. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u100	Thank you, Mr President, so allow me, in a detailed debate, to make a statement on two amendments, one of which is the amendment that I have justified here. Strengthening the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It concerns the transfer of 8 billion. CZK to support the payment of pensions, CZK 500 per month for each raised child on account of the government's budget reserve. This amendment is under House number 5902. And then there is the amendment, or the document under number 5924, which I am referring to and which is proposed by the accompanying resolutions, which I tabled and justified in the general debate. I'll take the liberty of reading them. The first motion for a resolution is: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to submit a detailed implementation of the state budget for the first half of 2020 by the end of July 2020. Second order: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government for a detailed overview of the implementation of the state budget in the second half of 2020 always after the end of the month, no later than the fifth day of the month following that. - That means that every month in the next semester we have detailed information on how the state budget is being implemented. In addition, the third resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to submit a medium-term perspective for 2021 to 2023 by the end of September 2020 at the latest. And the fourth motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to submit a proposal for effective budget savings for individual chapters in 2020 by the end of July 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u102	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, as I have already announced in the general debate, I would like to sign up to my amendment under the number of House document 5909. This amendment concerns the debt we have towards disabled and elderly people, i.e. to care for them, that is to say, social services. I justified the amendments. Perhaps even at the margo debate that has taken place here that some Members want to cut up a bear, so maybe I'll put it a little bit right. I don't see a bear here. Personally, I think that maybe we have some polar bear here that's deep under the water, drowning a lot under the water, poor guy, and I don't think we should be cutting up this bear because he's already poor himself. But if we have any debt to the public here, and I think that towards the handicapped and caring for them, we have the seniors' debt here. And we already have it from approving the state budget for 2020, so we should correct this debt. But otherwise, let's not cut the bear under the water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková and President Jan Bartošek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the amendment of my absent colleague Jiří Kobza, who is included in the system as House document 5885, proposes changes to the expenditure side of the state budget. This is the transfer of CZK 423 590 516 from Chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In particular, it concerns the transfer of funds from expenditure indicators to external development cooperation and transformation cooperation into the expenditure indicator for disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. President Jan Bartošek, at this time the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. For me briefly. I hereby submit three amendments. The first is in the system under number 5911, the next under number 5912 and the third under number 5913. The first amendment from the government's budget reserve gives all working parents CZK 5,000 per child with a maintenance obligation. Furthermore, the second amendment increases the chapter on construction and support, construction and operation of municipal infrastructure to 1 billion, also from the government budget reserve. [[12.40 hours]] And the third one raises the State Fund to support investment to finance the construction of municipal flats to 5 billion, also from the government's budget reserve. We believe that the most useful thing a government can do is to help municipalities build municipal apartments, allow people to live, and thus basically help young families. So many of my suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Mr Jiří Dolejš has yet to enter into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u108	As they say, certainty is certainty. Colleagues who watch us on TV screens came to the impression that when I read the amendments of my colleague Jírovcová, I did not give a clear number to the other one, so according to the einmal ist keinmal password, pioneers can double and certainty, I would reiterate that the second amendment to my colleague Aulická has number 5898. I hope everything's clear now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-001-001.u109	Thank you for the clarification. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? He has neither the Minister nor the rapporteur. However, we will not be finished with the second reading of this proposal, because the rapporteur, Mr Volný, has proposed a reduction of the deadline for the third reading to 7 days. I have summoned Members who have not been in the hall, I have heard the request for withdrawal, I have signed you all out, please sign up again with my voting cards. We are ready for the vote. We therefore vote to shorten the deadline for the third reading to 7 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number three, 87 Members signed up for 69, against no one, we adopted the proposal and we shortened the deadline. Thank you. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the agenda of the 53rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending here. Have a nice day. Goodbye.
