ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u1	291. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 40th meeting, a total of 33 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, there is an interpelation at the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, who responded to the interpellation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček on the alleged sale of the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 611. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. If I'm not mistaken, I just read his apology for the morning meeting. That's right. I cannot, therefore, continue to discuss this point. We will continue when the Minister is present. Another intervention is an interpelation to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who responded to Ivan Bartoš's interpelation on the report on EU financial corrections in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 656. The discussion of this response was suspended. At the moment of the interruption, Mr Ivan Bartoš was signed up for a speech in the debate. I don't see him at the moment, so we can continue the debate. I'm asking if anyone is interested in performing on this point? Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would have such an unusual request at the moment. Unfortunately, the President is not here for some personal reasons, so I would like to request an interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u3	We could vote on that. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Pikal is discussing the procedure with the President.]] In the beginning, I taught in the sense of Section 112. That's right. So, Madam Secretary, there's nothing we can do, we're not going to continue on this point. Furthermore, we have an interview with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's interpelation on the steps and measures by which the Prime Minister and the Government have so far responded and which the Cabinet is preparing in connection with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 6 June 2019 by which the House has asked the Government to propose an effective change in criminal law so that the crimes caused in privatisation can be further prosecuted and punished, in order to avoid their limitation, including an assessment of whether there has been a situation in which the limitation period could not even run. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 659. At this point, the Prime Minister is not present. I am opening the debate and, please, the Member. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that the Prime Minister is not present. Under these circumstances, I would like to ask you to consent to the interruption of this interpelation until the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u5	Yes. Thank you. Of course, we can vote on the proposal. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. [[After a while.]] The number of votes already seems much more optimistic than before. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point into the presence of the Prime Minister. Who's against it? Voting number 58, registered 67, for 44, versus 2. The motion was accepted. So I'm interrupting this interpellation. Another intervention is the interpelation of the Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík, who responded to the interpelation of Mr Ondřej Polanský in the matter of the selection procedure for members of the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 667. Mr. Ambassador, I'm opening the debate and giving you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u6	Good morning, Mr President, thank you for the floor. As has already been said here, because of absence, perhaps the absence of the Minister of Transport, I would ask the honourable House to interrupt the interpelation into the presence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u7	Minister of Transport. From the point of view of the interpretation of the law, Mr. Vladimír Kremlík is the Minister of Transport until midnight, just for your information. In the meantime, I will read a few apologies, and the first one is the apology of the Minister who apologizes until the end of the day. Mr Jan Kubík apologises between 9.15 and 11.00 because of his doctor's visit, the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman apologizes for his foreign business trip for the whole day, Mr Jan Pošvář apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the working day, Mr Kolovratník apologizes from 9 to 10 a.m. and then from 11 to 12 a.m. and then from 14 a.m. for his work reasons, Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes from 9 to 11 a.m. from Nevludová to 11 a.m. today, Mr Pavel Blažek apologizes from 10 to 13 a.m. for her professional reasons, Mrs Richterová apologizes from 9 to 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. for her professional Ivana, Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologises from 13 apologizes to Mrs Miroslava Němcová from 14.30 am. We would therefore now vote to interrupt the presence of the Minister of Transport. It's voteable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 59, registered 71, for 35, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We are therefore continuing the debate. I'm asking if anyone is interested in a performance on this point. Not even the MP. So I ask if he has a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u8	Without the Prime Minister's presence, there's absolutely no point in continuing the interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u9	I understand. However, in conclusion, the House may adopt a resolution in response to the written interpelation whether or not it agrees. So I take it you're not even proposing a resolution. Is it? Please take your word for it. We have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u10	Very well. In that case, I propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the Minister of Transport's response to the interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u11	Yes, thank you. A voteable proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 60, 71 Members signed in, for 28, against 18. The motion was not accepted. I'm done discussing this interpellation. Another intervention is also an interpelation to the Minister of Transport, who responded to Mr Ondřej Polanský's interpellation with regard to the subsidised fare. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u12	First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the very dignified atmosphere for which this meeting -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u13	No offense, Mr. Ambassador, but I give the floor! I'd give it to you, but let me finish what needs to be done. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 668. Initiating debate, you have the floor, Congressman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u14	Thank you. I'm asking the House to interrupt the interpellation to the presence of the Minister of Transport, any Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u15	We will vote on this proposal. Now I'm gonna call in my colleagues. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of interrupting this interpellation into the presence of the Minister of Transport? Who's against it? Voting number 61, registered is 73, for 39, versus 1. The proposal was adopted in this case. I am therefore interrupting the discussion of this reply to the written interpelation into the presence of the Minister of Transport. Another interpelation is the interpelation of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Lubomír Volný's interpelation on the case of the esteemed military captain in the reserve of Josef Vybíral, a system of early radiolocation warnings, and his colleagues on the matter of granting dignified pensions for long-time professional soldiers. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 672. Initiating debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have decided to surprise the entire House with an unexpected request to interrupt this interpellation into the presence of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u17	Yes. The proposal is therefore to interrupt this reply to the written question to the Prime Minister. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 62, registered is 76, for 37, versus 3. The motion was not accepted. We are therefore continuing the debate and reporting to the Volný Member. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u18	Thank you. I will therefore try to send this report to the Prime Minister through the record of this hearing and then propose a text of the resolution. So, Prime Minister, your response to my written interview on the life situation of the esteemed Captain Vybíral contains, among other things, a statement that, from the point of view of the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, it seems very unlikely, very unlikely, but not entirely impossible or excluded, that the Ministry of Defence's authorities would have provided him with information in 1994, on the basis of which he would have legitimately assumed that his entitlement to an old-age pension would have resulted from the completion of the age of 55 years. However, after a rendezvous with Captain Vybíral in October of this year, the doubts mentioned by you remain. I therefore ask you to instruct the Minister of Defence to check precisely according to the record of the file service and the appropriate archives of correspondence between the Ministry of Defence and Mr. Captain Vybíral in order to clarify clearly whether or not such a reference existed. Captain Vybíral is still convinced that from the 1990s, when he left the army, the above quoted document was sent to him that it was a form of a bill of funds, and he logically followed it for more than 22 years until 2016, when he began to deal with his anticipated entitlement to an old-age pension. Former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Ms. . Jaroslava Němcová promised Vybíral Vybíra that she would personally examine the matter and also she would reply to it, but only her subordinate officials took over the matter again. I believe that the Government of the Czech Republic should approach matters of professional soldiers with the highest possible care, professionalism and necessary sensitivity in accordance with its programme statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u19	Thank you, too. I ask if anyone else has a proposal to speak on this point in the debate. If not, then I will ask Mr Volný to state directly what resolution the Chamber of Deputies is proposing for this reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u20	Thank you. So I propose a resolution in the sense that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister for an answer in this matter to Captain Vybíral...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u21	According to the Rules of Procedure, only whether the House agrees or disagrees with the reply to the written interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u22	I'm sorry, okay. So the House agrees or disagrees with the request made by Lubomír Volný to respond to Vybíral Vybír in his difficult life situation, when he served as a member of the Army of the Czech Republic, and is currently submitting his request. [[Laughing in the courtroom]] Thank you. [[Consultation with one of the Members.]] Wrong again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u23	You have to choose whether you want us to agree or not. And I have a feeling about you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u24	I'd like you to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u25	Agree to the Prime Minister's reply?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u26	All right, the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the Prime Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u27	So, we will therefore vote in the resolution that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 63, registered 77, for 30, versus 7. The motion was not accepted. The resolution was not adopted. Thank you, and I'm done discussing this interpellation. Another is an interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Jan Zahradník's interpelation on energy security of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 684. I am opening the debate and Mr Zahradník has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would also like to take the path of my previous speakers, and I would like to ask you to approve the suspension of my questioning until the Prime Minister's presence. I'd just take a few words to justify my request to you. The Prime Minister is on the issue of energy security - a matter that is sovereignly important. We are seeing a great deal of pressure on individual Union states to express themselves and take active action to combat climate change. We are witnessing the discussion of the new Green Agreement for Europe, which was presented by the European Commission in the form of a communication, which was also expressed yesterday by the European Parliament. In my opinion, the Prime Minister is quite sensible about this. For example, I would like to quote from his interview from January 11 at Law: "We will not let Europe impose on us things that should threaten our economy. Surely we will not be drawn to fanatical green measures that threaten our industry. We would rather sue and argue at worst about sanctions," says Prime Minister Babiš very reasonably, in my opinion. Officials who have written the answer to my interpellation seem to think or believe they should think otherwise, and the numbers they give in their answers can be easily disproved, questioned. I have worked hard to find reality with my colleagues, to consult with other experts, and I would very much like to be able to make these arguments in the face of the Prime Minister. We have one of the big topics - the decarbonisation of our energy. We plan to do so by 2050. We're planning on shutting down coal power plants. We know the problems we face with building new resources for nuclear power. The European Parliament is green, and today our neighbouring countries are also under the influence of green policy. In Austria, the zelený are part of a government coalition, and in Germany it is evident that the fight against climate change is being led by the head of the head. And photovoltaics right now and wind energy and the use of biomass simply cannot replace any missing resources. And I have arguments I'd like to make here. So, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to take a vote in favour of my proposal to interrupt the discussion of the response to the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have called in my colleagues from the lobby, and we will therefore vote on your motion to interrupt the Prime Minister's presence. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 64, registered 77, for 55, against no one. The motion to interrupt has been accepted. I am interrupting the discussion of this response to written interpelation. And we will continue with another one, which is also addressed to Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister, who responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the matter of 'Can you please tell me what your programme is?". Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 687. I am opening the debate and I beg the floor of Mr Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. The object of my interpelation is quite general. It basically follows up on the British interpelatory tradition, where every Prime Minister's interpellation begins with a question of whether you could tell us your daily schedule. We had such an unfortunate situation here that the last time we counted it, the Prime Minister came to a written interview twice and nineteen times. So for that reason, if we are intersecting something in writing, that means that for this Chamber of Deputies' agenda, as the law predicts, it will be in, like, a quarter of a year, in six months, or even in that last year, I have a feeling that ten months before the Prime Minister arrived at a written interview. This means, in essence, the legal mechanism by which Members are to control the government is prevented, because any matter will only be dealt with after the written exchange takes place, which may take two months. Since the Member sends a letter, then he waits 30 days for an answer, then he has to propose an appointment for the agenda, he has to come to the meeting and then he is waiting ten months for the Prime Minister to arrive at a written interview. So that's why I came up with the "what's your program?" and since it does not make sense for us to always wait a year for this topic to be discussed on the House of Deputies' agenda, we will include this item on each written interview that concerns the Prime Minister's programme, and we will discuss the current issues that we are interested in and that we want to address as opposition. And I hope that the Prime Minister will come and answer some questions. I, of course, have specific questions on the subject of the interpelation, but since the Prime Minister is not here, I think it would be better to wait until he arrives. I think that the Chamber of Deputies should therefore, if it does not arrive next time, an extraordinary meeting should be convened, where the Prime Minister will respond to the interpelations, or perhaps the Chamber of Deputies should approve a resolution asking him to attend written interpelations. And so now I propose a interruption to the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u31	Thank you. The motion to interrupt has been made. I'll take a vote on him. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of interrupting this interpellation? Who's against it? Voting number 65, registered 77, for 30, against 1. This proposal was not adopted. I ask who is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u32	I really appreciate the fact that the Chamber of Deputies has an interest in discussing my intervention. And basically, maybe pre-negotiate before the Prime Minister gets here. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister, I hope that one of the ministers will tell him or, possibly, through the President of the Chamber of Deputies, how planning works from the long-term program, which I suppose is the electoral manifesto, the book I dream about when I'm sleeping - I even have it printed here, I've already met him - and as it goes into reality afterwards. Because the biggest problem of all governments in the world is that they promise different promises, but then there is no clear mechanism to get them to fulfill those promises. I wanted to appreciate that the government has set up an information system in which it captures the fulfilment of individual electoral promises. It's supposed to be developed up to the level of tasks for individual ministries. It was delivered by Microsoft. And this software works at the Office of the Government and allows you to monitor how, at what level, individual tasks are performed in the programming declaration. I asked the Office of the Government to provide me with an output from this information system. However, unfortunately, I only got general information about how many tasks are being developed there, which are somehow assigned, which are being fulfilled, which are not being fulfilled, but I did not get to the level of knowing what the government is doing and what the government is not doing. So the government has this information at its disposal, but it refuses to give it to us Members so that we can control it. So he's probably assuming that we're going to take statements from the government's 40-page programming statement and control the specific thing and send a hundred and six on each issue. I think that this is a rather uneconomical approach that would burden the public administration, because there is no reason for every Member to ask for information on how the one item of the programming declaration is fulfilled when the government has the information at its disposal. So this is probably the most important thing for us as Members to have the opportunity to control the government in some reasonable, clear way to illustrate how the government is doing with its promises. Of course, there are various non-profit projects that map it. I've been looking at some of the projects that Demagog.cz has. It really maps the extent to which some promises are fulfilled. But I don't think it's exactly what the government has at its disposal in that information system. It is necessary for the government's responsibility to carry out the programme statement that the information is really clear, visualized, because it turns out that when these things are basically embedded in some illegible confusion that it is somewhere in resolutions, and one has to look into it, then the feedback loop doesn't really work there. So that's why it's ideal to visualize it with some dashboard, like a traffic light on every task, whether it's done or not, from the government's programming statement. And maybe it would also give the Prime Minister a whip, who was running for election with a good manager, that he would be able to turn to individual ministers, who might not be able to complete the tasks they should perform, to speed up the implementation of the goals that the government has imposed on them. It's when we look at the publication. What I'm dreaming of, there's a whole bunch of different promises. And I think that a large part of them isn't actually being filled at all, it's not being realized. And I think it would be a good idea for us to have really reliable data on the basis of which we can back up, document and perhaps even speed up the internal official mechanisms within the government, because, of course, we have various commentary procedures and so on to move on. I remember intersecting the Prime Minister here to present the Whistleblowing Act. He responded here that it was his absolute priority that he wanted to really whistleblowing to be discussed here within the Chamber of Deputies to bring the law forward. But the reality is that, to this day, the law has not been presented to the Chamber of Deputies, and worse, it has not been submitted to the government, not even to the Government's Legislative Council. The law was simply not prepared by the Justice Department. It justified it by waiting for some European legislation to be adopted, which will regulate whistleblowing. So, of course, it's been extended. And the result is an absurd situation where the Whistleblowing Act will be adopted or will become effective at the end of the parliamentary term. This means that the government is actually running for elections with some priorities, such as that it will make something transparent and so on, but it will simply do it in a sly way so that it will not take effect until the end of the term, so that it may apply to the successors. And we don't know yet if we'll even be able to get the Whistleblowing Act approved in that parliamentary term. So these are the things that we should have mapped out, if the Prime Minister and his government are really doing what they say, or if they're just a declaration. Because we have seen this here in a number of cases where the Prime Minister may have promised to enforce stricter sanctions for animal cruelty, and then, as a result, here in the Chamber of Deputies, it turns out that MEPs are not voting. Of course, there have been a number of speculations about whether it has anything to do with the business where there are large numbers of animals in Agrofert. But I think that it will be enough for us as opposition Members if we have the basic information on how the item in the programme is implemented. Since the issue is broad, I would also like to leave the opportunity for other Members to express themselves. And I believe that the Prime Minister will get acquainted with the debate and that he will provide us with the information we require from him, and I think that he should also introduce to his constituents, because, of course, his constituents are also asking how the things he promised in his electoral programme are being implemented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u33	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is in the debate. Mr. Ferjenčík. A point of fact, Mr Valenta, I apologize. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I need is a factual remark, two minutes. I must say that to some extent I appreciate the work of Prime Minister Babiš. On the other hand, I had similar problems as my colleague Michálek. I waited almost a year to discuss my rejection, so I was forced by Prime Minister Babiš about November, I think it was November 6th, here to interpelate orally because of his absence. And you might be interested in his written answer, which I will read to you in this context: Dear Member, you have interrogated me on the matter of absences at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Yes, you're right in that, expressed as a percentage, my presence at the House's meeting doesn't seem ideal. However, you yourself do not deny that the penzion of the government's work on behalf of our citizens would be small. And that's exactly what I think is a far more fundamental fact than my absence at the House meeting. Moreover, I represent our country not only at home but also often abroad. [[9.40 hours]] Of course, I welcome the idea of introducing into our legal order the institute of the so-called slippery mandate of a Member of Parliament of the Czech Republic. Even in the last parliamentary term, I suggested it myself. Therefore, I will support the inclusion of Parliament's press number 390 as soon as possible, which is therefore the amendment to the Constitutional Law, the Chamber of Deputies. This is just for your information, so that you know why the Prime Minister does not attend the Chamber of Deputies meetings when they discuss intercession. Of course, I am in favour of the opinion presented here by colleague Michálek that the Prime Minister of this government should be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u35	Thank you. Ambassador Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since, above all, the members of the ANO movement have not voted to interrupt this interpelation, I have no choice but to ask the Prime Minister directly when he is here, so I must put them now, because otherwise the interpelation will end without any result, which unfortunately happens quite often. I wanted to ask you how government-level negotiations are developing on the introduction or the abolition of a super-gross wage. I wonder specifically how the ANO movement intends to introduce a 19% wage tax at the same time, which would therefore reduce today's more than 20% tax. And in doing so, the abolition of the super-gross wage institute as it intends to achieve that the taxation of the self-employed, simply businessmen, small entrepreneurs does not increase. Because today the construction is that 15 percent of the super gross wage is paid, which is a little over 20 percent for employees, but for businessmen, their turnover is already calculated as the basis of the tax, so that makes businessmen pay fifteen. If the super-gross wage were to be abolished, then, logically, the businessmen would be paying 19 percent instead of 15 at that time, which the Prime Minister does not want, at least as I have seen in his comments. He writes that he wants no group of taxpayers to pay higher taxes as a result of the abolition of a super-gross wage. So I wonder how the YES movement is going to propose exactly whether there will be two rates, one for the self-employed, one for the employees, or if there will be any changes in spending flats or if there is another structure that I haven't thought about how it could work. I would like to know what the solution to this problem is and, above all, in relation to the topic of this interpelation, how the coalition negotiations on this issue are going. I know that the ČSSD also promised a reduction in the taxation of work mainly for the poorest employees, which I think is very desirable. After all, I have repeatedly proposed an increase in the basic tax discount on the taxpayer. So I would ask the Prime Minister for information on how this negotiation is taking place and if there is any chance that labour taxation will be reduced during this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u37	Thank you. Real comment - Vice-President Pikal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So if we are to approach the British model, I would first like to respond to one thing that has been said here. At the same time, someone who is a Member and a Minister may excuse him from being present at the House vote, but it cannot excuse him from being present at the meetings. This is simply the thing that is, it is part of the work of a member of the government, to go to interpelation here, to be present here, and it will not change even with the introduction of a slippery mandate. I'd like to submit that. Another thing I wanted to talk about. We voted practically yesterday or did not vote to introduce correspondence elections and the possibility of voting in the embassy in the elections to the European Parliament. One of the main reasons why these changes were rejected is that an amendment to the Act on the Administration of Elections is being prepared. And I would like to ask when we can finally expect it in the House, how long will it take to make a comment because the term is constantly being postponed, it has been postponed for several parliamentary periods. I believe that this term is close to finally getting into the House, so I would like to ask when, because the time during which we can get some more demanding legislative work is just running out. Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister - he announced that he was going to file a criminal report on the case of sales points on electronic highway coupons, so I would also like to ask when we should expect this criminal report, as we do not want to duplicate this work, so when we should expect any results from it or the submission of this criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u39	Thank you. I will read a few apologies, then a factual remark from Mr Valenta. Apologies to Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová from 14:30 to 18:00 for work František, does Mrašek Navrkal apologize between 10:00 and 11:00? No, the whole meeting. Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes for working reasons today, Mr Kateřina Valachová apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock for working reasons today, Mr Jakub Janda apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský apologises between 9 and 11 o'clock for family reasons, Mr Miloslav Janulík apologizes between 9 and 11 o'clock for working reasons. There. A point of fact, Mr Valenta, then a Member of Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u40	I don't want to delay anything but the reaction to my previous speaker, my colleague Pikal. I, too, have intersected Prime Minister Babiš from his absence in the House as a whole. This also means when negotiating various laws, where it should guarantee by its presence the negotiation of these laws, so this would undoubtedly help in the case of the introduction of a moving mandate. Of course, as far as interpellation is concerned, the matter is completely different. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u41	Thank you. The replacement card number 6 votes Ferjenčík, I forgot to tell the record. A factual point - Mr Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u42	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to instruct not the lawyer, but the Vice-President of the House that criminal charges are not filed with the authorities of the House, but with the law enforcement authorities. Its outcome is not decided by the House, nor by the government, but by the law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u43	Thank you. I ask if there is still interest, it is already after the factual remarks. Ambassador Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that Mr. Pikal meant otherwise, but now to my point. I have here an interview for the Minister of Transport, unfortunately at this moment I do not know exactly who I should be submitting this interpelation to, so I have submitted it to both Minister Kremlík and Mr Havlíček. Since I have information that neither of them will probably be here this afternoon, I would like to ask the person responsible for the agenda at this time, i.e. Mr. absent Prime Minister Babiš. We have a case here recently regarding a company that should create an e-shop for the sale of highway coupons. The object of my interpelation is not how the company has been selected, how much it is and so on, but I want to ask you another question, because it is likely to change the current contract according to recent media outputs. And since I haven't read from the existing materials how the given, let's say, coupon payment gateway should work, I'd like to make sure it does. My point is whether the money for the specific individual payments for the highway coupons will go to an account that will be managed by the state, or it will be on an account that will be managed by the company in charge of the highway coupon payment gateway. If it is that the individual payments will go to the company's account, I want to ask how it will be ensured that the funds will not be grubbed up. At what intervals should the funds be transferred to the State's account, what would happen in the event of the company's bankruptcy? [[9.50 hours]] My point is that a large part of the funds, namely units up to approximately ten billion crowns, are usually collected in January each year. And of course, having these large funds in one private company account is quite a risk. These are the funds that are supposed to come into the state budget, and I would not like to deal with any case here, that at the time when the transfer of the funds was due to come to the State's account that the funds suddenly disappeared, the company went bankrupt or something like that. That is why I want to ask how it is ensured that the funds are not lost. Alternatively, you can confirm this by saying that the funds for individual payments for motorway coupons will go directly to an account that will be controlled by a state organisation or directly by the state. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I didn't interrupt you, I let you finish your questions. I'd just like to point out that the initial interpellation was: what's your agenda, Prime Minister? You took it after you asked for specific accounts. With all due respect for the British parliamentary tradition, we have a different tradition, we have a Czech tradition, and I am convinced that the legislature had other intentions when it adopted the Rules of Procedure. And in the Czech Republic, according to the Rules of Procedure, I think we need to discuss something concrete. In this way, you go around the Rules of Procedure when you give an interview What is your program? And then you say we can talk about anything. We need to talk about something concrete here and to the point. I don't think we're gonna do this right now, but I think we should get together and talk about this, because we shouldn't allow this practice in your own interest, fellow pirate-party. You never know. Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else to this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u46	I agree with the President of the House that we should not lead this way and that the Prime Minister should be present at the intercessions. It is simply the basis of parliamentary government control and it is shameful how often it is not here. And the problem with this government is that it turns its programming priorities de facto every week. One can't rely on a given direction, it's obviously based on marketing surveys. And so we need to ask about the priorities, because there are laws in the government's legislative plan as well, they change, or we learn that the government doesn't write them at all, that it just passed them on to some lobbyist groups, and similar serious managerial failures. In this context, I want to ask about the resortism, because the Prime Minister's ministers are spinning like a clock. I don't think the government's programming statement is too full, and until this screaming between the resorts and the departments are led by managers who can control even quite simple things, which unfortunately is not happening in this government, we can't move anywhere. This problem is particularly relevant for interdisciplinary topics, typically public procurement, subsidies or digitalisation, because digitization is not about one resort, about replacing one paper process with another. It's about the overall change of thought, the change of concept and the penetration of the core of information exchange between resorts and so on. But whenever I ask that question, whenever I look at specific examples, I actually learn that these resorts aren't working together. So the Prime Minister here has said in several speeches that this certainly doesn't concern his government, that he's going to mess with it. But we don't see any results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u47	I ask who else is interested in speaking in the debate. Chairman Michálek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the speech of the President of the Chamber of Deputies really speaks out of my mind. It would really be appropriate for us to have pre-prepared topics to discuss, but, as I have explained, this is not possible if there is a 10-month interval between what we will submit to some written interpelation, and the Prime Minister will come to the Chamber of Deputies for written interpelation. And that's what really happened. And now that the inoperability of written interventions is added to what we have experienced in one of the last oral interventions, when the Prime Minister actually works in such a way that he may not be answering the subject at all - when he got a question about the Istanbul Convention and talked about his conflict of interest - it practically makes it impossible for us to ask questions and get answers to our questions. And unfortunately, oral questioning has also been a little degenerate to the fact that the minister or prime minister is coming and in the first part he reads some text that he has prepared, which is mostly a general talk, half of which is about what the government's success in building kindergartens and raising pensions is about, and in the second part he often makes some personal attack because it is no longer possible to respond to it in the next answer. Because there's always one-other, one-other, over. So that's how oral interpelations are prevented. And if this is the case, if the government does not answer to the Chamber of Deputies, then it is appropriate that the opposition should also look for creative solutions to get its topics on the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and to motivate the Prime Minister to come to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies and to answer to the Chamber of Deputies. So I assume that if you have a deep conversation with us as opposed, then the discussion with the Prime Minister will be part of the interview, because you are a high constitutional representative, you will certainly be responsible to evaluate it and appeal to the Prime Minister to attend written interpelations. After all, as he promised us in response to another of our written interpelations, where he said that he was looking forward to us and that he would surely come to the Chamber of Deputies this year. It would be good if it wasn't just this year, but even this month or this meeting. I have prepared other topics that I wanted to discuss, and it really is on the subject, or on the agenda. I printed it here, Prime Minister Babiš's program, it's printed here. [[He's pointing.]] I have some topics here that I wanted to ask you about, but since other colleagues with their written interpelations are registered, I want to give them some space. That is why I am once again making a proposal to interrupt this written interpelation into the next interventions, so that other colleagues will also be given the opportunity to comment on the topics on which the ministers sit here. But, of course, if the Chamber of Deputies decides as a sovereign, I am ready to continue and look forward to the next debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u49	I think it's possible. Although we're actually voting for the same thing the second time. Until next meeting, Thursday. [[Member Michálek wants to be more specific.]] You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to be more specific. The previous motion was to interrupt the Prime Minister's presence, the current proposal is to interrupt the next written interventions, which means Thursday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u51	Okay, thank you. There's a checkout request. I've called in colleagues from the lobby, so we're gonna give them some space. [[After a while.]] The number of votes has settled relatively for us, and at this point, the House is not a quorum. [[According to the board, 56 were present.]] I'm interrupting negotiations until 10.05 and we'll see if we can secure the kvorum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u52	Good morning, honourable Members. The break to ensure the presence of individual clubs at the meeting is over. We therefore have a new proposal for an interruption tabled by Mr Michálek. [[Checkout requests.]] Okay, if you're asking for a check-out, I'll re-sign you out, I'll ask you for a new registration, sign up with your I.D. cards. We will decide on the proposal to interrupt Mr Michálek's interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš by next Thursday in voting number sixty-six. I'll wait a little longer to sign in... and we can vote. I understand that some people like to play with their voting card... In voting number 66, we will decide on a proposal to interrupt Mr Michálek's interpellation to the Prime Minister. I've started the vote. Who's in favor of interrupting? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 66, from 80 to 44, against no one. The motion was accepted. The negotiations for this interpelation have been adjourned. The next interview will be my interpelation to Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar on the planned purchase of helicopters for the Army of the Czech Republic, it is the House's press 700. I'm gonna ask for a replacement so I can give my interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u53	Yes, I'm taking over the chair and starting the debate. Vice-President Filip reporting, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Members of the Government, I would like to briefly mention my intervention on the Minister of Defence of Lubomír Metnar on the non-standard purchase of helicopters for the Army of the Czech Republic. I will begin with a rather unconventional start, and I am glad that in the last issue of the Review for Defence and Security Industry, a wonderful article was published, where the First Brno Engineering is boasting - and quite rightly so - by reaching a significant milestone of thousands of produced auxiliary power units for MIL helicopters. I think that this is an important message, because our defence industry is one of those that belong to the world's top, both in quality and in high technology, research and development. Among other things, MIL helicopters are to be replaced by other helicopters, and here I will begin in 2018, although I could reach deeper into the past, by a letter from February 7. 2018, when the command of the army, i.e. the chief of the General Staff, then Josef Bečvář, approached the former Minister of Defence, our colleague Karla Šlechtová, regarding the analysis of the availability of helicopters as required by the Army of the Czech Republic. [[10.10 hours]] The Chief of Staff, former, literally writes that marketing research, by its limited scope, is based on the fact that the requirements in the specifications for a multipurpose helicopter are real and available on the market. [[limited?]] In particular, they take into account the tasks assigned to the helicopter squadron within the Army of the Czech Republic and the tasks performed in foreign operations in cooperation with NATO alliance forces, responding to both contemporary and future threats, taking into account the development of the specifications of those military conflicts. The results of the marketing survey further suggest that helicopter manufacturers are able and willing to make a contractual commitment and meet the requirements set out in the specification of the Army of the Czech Republic, and the performance and flight characteristics meet all modern helicopters in the category of medium multipurpose helicopter, in the field of armament requirements are in line with the worldwide trend of armament. It follows from the above that a helicopter meeting the specifications, UH-60 Black Hawk with a kit Battlehawk, is a real example that meets not only the requirements for armament but also as a purely military product and requirements for use in combat environments. Other manufacturers, such as Eurocopter or Leonardo, are able to respond to customer requirements in the field of equipment as well as marketing research. So there was a debate under the command of the Army of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence, whether under the direction of the former Minister or the current Minister of Defence, and in this answer I question that according to the Ministry of Defence no selection can take place, or may not, because marketing research has proven that there is no other suitable solution in addition to the solution offered by the US. I really cannot accept that, because already on 9 January of last year, director Leonardo Helicopters Cutillo writes to the Minister that they expect to be treated fairly, as has been announced, and will be compared with the offers of several applicants. Among other things, it is recalled that Leonardo's offer was 100% in line with the technical requirements, and the advantages of AW139 helicopters and the offers themselves are highlighted. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] 18. 2. The Italian Ministry of Defence writes to Deputy Minister Říh that providing a positive reference to Leonardo as regards the ability to customise and integrate required weapons highlights economic advantage, reminds the legal framework of the European Union for selection procedures. 20. 2. Deputy Director Koudelka Cutill to the letter from 9 January that the tender is being finalized and that the selected candidates will be directly addressed in 2019. 17. 5 CEO -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u55	Mr Vice-President, I would like to interrupt you and ask your fellow Members in the Chamber for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u56	Thank you. Leonardo writes to the minister that he is ready to take part in the competition, and the offer requested has been sent. Leonardo thus responded to reports that it was the United States of America's offer. Then a certain setback took place and a legal battle began. And that's the problem that I think needs to be addressed, and that the Secretary of Defense will answer if we're in danger or not. Since the Minister of Defence's reply points out that the Law on the selection procedure in Section 192 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) that government - government, i.e. negotiations between governments of two states, may mean that an exception will apply. But this is possible if competition does not really exist in Europe, but competition in the European Union is proven to exist. We must look at the way those helicopters, whether combat or traffic, exist in Europe, and, of course, apart from Leonard, we will certainly find not only Eurocopter, i.e. those Airbus subsidiaries, etc. At least Leonardo has submitted an offer that is significantly cheaper. It is about 8 billion crowns against 14.6 billion, which is supposed to cost us purchases from the United States of America, was even delivered earlier, and this is achieving complete operability in the case of the USA 2026 and with the Italian supplier 2024. And above all, it meets all the requirements to be specified as required by the Army of the Czech Republic. It's documented on the side of the Ministry of Defense. And the attorney, the Czech Italian firm's attorney, claims that he has documents at his disposal that show that the marketing selection has proven that more than one eligible supplier exists, and proves that a year ago this was envisaged, with the aim of making a selection of a larger number of tenders. This leads me to the point that I don't want to say, and that is, what impact this purchase from the United States of America can have, because the contract is signed, on the legal status of the Czech Republic, on any damage that may arise from Leonardo's activities, when it claims that there is both a competitive possibility within Europe and, of course, there are procedures that meet the principles of the already launched tender. Leonardo believes that the above procedure at the Ministry of Defence is a proven unfair or illegal approach and is ready to use the available means of defence. We are therefore now witnessing this, and the Minister is likely to testify that Leonardo is already in front of the Competition Authority, and in addition, the Italian party is in danger of turning to the European Commission if the Competition Authority fails and is willing to turn to international arbitration. It certainly cannot be excluded that this acquisition project will negatively affect the Czech Republic, whether its reputation or the state budget. Penalty from the Office of Competition, or even some claims of the European Commission against the Czech Republic that we did not buy in Europe, can cause significant damage to the Czech Republic. In the knowledge of the CASA case, criminal penalties of natural persons may not be excluded either. If I'm properly informed, there's a military police project left, which certainly has a better picture than I do. When I look at the timetable, I must say that the purchase was made before the decision on objections was received, the intention to conclude the contract, which contradicts § 246 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and, where appropriate, point (a). (b), (c) or (d), where appropriate, that means that the time limits within which the contract is concluded are not respected. That's my first concern. The second thing I want to explain from the Minister of Defence is, when we have reached the process, the government - the government, and now I do not question the political decision, but I question the relation to the state budget, i.e. to taxpayers' resources, why we have not used the direct purchase through the central purchase of the Alliance and what conditions the American party has offered us in order to ensure that we are provided with any service or supply of parts. [[10.20 hours]] We know that before the treaty was concluded, the United States of America withdrew the production of cabins for one type of helicopter, not for Viper helicopters, but this does not mean that we cannot return to this, and therefore I started by quoting Review of the Defence and Security Industry that the Czech Republic is a certified supplier for most small aircraft, possibly subsonic aircraft, but also helicopters for a number of global suppliers, both in Europe and in the United States of America, or elsewhere in the world, whether it is Russian Federation, China, Korea and so on. And so how does this purchase impact on the future of our defence industry, whether it will be usable and in what capacity, if it gives back work to the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's probably the most important thing I'd like to know, the three circles of questions. This means whether we are in danger, Minister, of suing an Italian supplier or how we intend to negotiate with him in some kind of negotiation, whether at political or political level, that means before the European Commission, so that there is no action or arbitration. The second thing is how the price increase will be compensated. Because I understand that no one can buy cheaper than the United States Army is buying from American manufacturers, that means that the price cannot be adjusted, and in that case, if there is any production against that price for supplied helicopters in the Czech Republic. And the third answer is whether you acted in the middle of the Alliance's central purchase, and I think you need to give us an answer. Finally, let me remind you that the Czech Republic has an exclusive position in the aviation industry, and if we wanted to, we could at least create a training base for Central and Eastern Europe for subsonic aircraft, alongside Leonard. And I think there are a lot of steps ahead of us in this regard that the Army of the Czech Republic should do, whether within the military itself, or Air Repair Malešice towards the supplier of the Aero Vodochody, to bring our L-39NG aircraft to the awareness of the world as well as its original version. I think that in more than four thousand pieces it still flies around the world.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u57	Thank you. We will continue with the debate to which the Minister applies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly recapitulate the development of the project for the purchase of a military helicopter for the Army of the Czech Republic. In May 2011, the Government of the Czech Republic approved the so-called White Book on Defence, which first mentioned the intention to eliminate the battle helicopters Mi-24 Russian Provenence. As a result, in June 2015, the government approved the Long-term Defense Perspective by 2030. Following this document, the selection of a military helicopter was initiated. Also subsequently approved document in December 2015, the so-called Construction Concept of the Army of the Czech Republic until 2025, this intention to implement the exchange of these helicopters and the purchase of new ones has been developed and developed to this day. Subsequently, several market surveys were carried out, as was said here from the mouth of President Filip, in order to find out what helicopters are in this category on the market. They have been addressed - and here I stress - by the governments of France, Italy, the United States. In addition, German and South Korea were contacted. After receiving the documentation and carrying out the analysis, France, Germany and South Korea were excluded from further evaluation because their offers did not meet the requirements and did not meet the requirements of the Army of the Czech Republic. Since three market surveys were carried out, a team of experts from the Ministry of Defence consisting of military pilots, logistics and technicians evaluated these surveys when the evaluation confirmed that there is currently no solution on the European Union market to meet the requirements of the Army of the Czech Republic. The evaluation of offers best meets all the requirements of the army for military multipurpose helicopter with armament complex weapon system, namely the offered system of the United States H-1, which consists of eight helicopters Venom and four helicopters Viper. His armament will significantly increase the fighting capabilities of the Army of the Czech Republic. This helicopter is 80 percent structurally identical, from its components, and guarantees efficiency and cost savings for training and logistical support throughout the helicopter life cycle. The supplier is able to deliver all helicopters already in 2023, which brings the advantage of shutting down existing Mi-24 helicopters running out of the life cycle, there is increased faultiness and faultiness, and of course I do not need to talk about the issue of servicing and maintenance of these helicopters, including the supply of spare parts, not to mention that these helicopters are not interoperable with machines within NATO. Another advantage is that the government of the United States provides helicopters under the same conditions, including financial guarantees, as if it were purchasing these helicopters for its armed forces, i.e. verified also the benefits of the offer also from the point of view of the price. I subsequently informed the Government of this contract after these evaluations, after all these processes, in accordance with the Ministry of Defence's internal legislation and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and a contract was subsequently signed with the United States on the delivery of this H-1 system on the basis of the mandate. The acquisition of new military helicopters is fully in line with the security interests of the Czech Republic and with the need to ensure the security of the Czech Republic. It corresponds to our commitments to the North Atlantic Alliance, increases the interoperability of our military technology within NATO and reduces the dependence of the Czech Republic on the arms industry of the Russian Federation. It is not true that the acquisition of helicopters by the government of the United States is not in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The company Bell itself declared the possibility of involving the Czech defence industry, including state companies such as LOM Praha and the Military Technical Institute, in the framework of the acquisition of helicopters and the security of their life cycle, worth more than 30 percent of the total value of the contract. This service, maintenance and provision of this lifelong cycle of these helicopters after delivery after 2023 will, of course, bring opportunities for new jobs and therefore money to our citizens. [[10.30 hours]] In the case of this public contract, the Ministry of Defence acted fully in accordance with the Public Procurement Act from the outset. The contracting authority has chosen a procurement procedure which fully complies with all domestic and Union generally binding regulations, and the Ministry of Defence is prepared to document the legality of all steps. The Ministry of Defence has always dealt with questions or objections made by Leonardo in due time. We respond to all questions in the procurement procedures. Deliveries of new helicopters are an important step in modernization of the army approved by the government of the Czech Republic. These are quality helicopters, at a high technical level, verified under the conditions of real combat deployment in operations. I would also like to respond specifically to some of the things that have been said here. In relation to Leonardo's offer, it is not true that they have met all the technical requirements, especially not offering an armed helicopter. At the same time, this helicopter, which the Italian party offered, was never used in combat. And for the record, it's a remodeled civilian helicopter that wasn't developed as military. In order to meet all the requirements of the Army of the Czech Republic, it would have to go into development. Furthermore, I would like to say that the marketing survey mentioned by the President was overcome, as I said, because there were three, followed by another follow-up survey. As far as NATO is concerned, we are using the Agency, but in this case, it is not acceptable to use the agency that makes purchases, mainly bulk purchases, so-called. NATO NSPA. Nor would the Agency be able to ensure the involvement of the Czech defence industry, which, as I said, amounts to more than 30% of the value of the contract. What is evaluated as an objection under the Public Procurement Act, we are on a legal date - and I would like to point out, on a legal date - actually answered. In conclusion, I would conclude my reaction by saying that, indeed, in the whole process of evaluating these marketing surveys, no one but the US party offered us a military surgically certified helicopter with certified armaments required by the Army of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u59	Thank you, too. Before we continue the debate, I have some aging apologies. Mr Kalousek apologises to us between 9 and 10 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Ferjenčík apologized between 9.00 and 9.15 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Holomčík apologizes between 9 and 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Maříková apologizes today from 14.30 p.m. to the end of the negotiations for reasons of employment, Mr Kopřiva apologises for today's negotiations between 9.45 and 10.30 p.m., Mrs Rutová apologises between 15 and 18 p.m. and Mr Mihola apologizes between 9 and 10 p.m. for reasons of work, Mrs Adamová apologises between 9 and 10 p.m. and also for reasons of work. And now Vice-President Filip is still reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, thank you for the two information, and for the delivery to be completed by 2023 - that is a significant change against the information I had. I'm sure that's good. Even for the fact that this involvement of the Czech defence industry is ensured. I also understand the reservation, and therefore I consider the question answered in terms of buying through the Alliance agency. But I didn't get an answer from you on whether you were dealing with the Italian side - and now I really repeat: whether within the EU or within the Alliance, because I didn't understand your comment on interoperability, given that Italy is an Alliance Member State, and I doubt, therefore, that interoperability would be disrupted when it comes to an alliance state. So I'm wondering if there's a threat to us about the international obligations that we have on Europe and its European market, and possibly the arbitration. If you don't have an answer to that, I'm gonna have to propose a rejection of your answer. If the Chamber of Deputies does not approve, of course I promise you too, Minister, that I will continue to monitor this and I will really ensure that our officials, whether at the Ministry of Defence or at the UOHS or at the Office of Property Rights of the State, do not neglect anything, because the contract is not, as they say, a crown, it is a question of a slightly large amount of taxpayers' money. And if it were to be burdened with some legal flaw, it would mean fines that could not be used either for the development of our industry or for other purposes in the state budget. So much for me. If you have anything to say, Minister, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u61	Well, thank you. Yes, the Minister is still reporting for the debate. Of course, someone else can apply. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like a few notes. As far as interoperability is concerned, this was solely about helicopters, the Mi-24 myself mentioned helicopters of Russian production, where there is the problem I was talking about. As far as possible threat or some kind of lawsuit. Here I am absolutely, I think, answered in this spirit - we are ready, we are clearly standing up for our actions and we are ready to defend our actions at any level in examining our process, our progress. As far as cooperation with the Italian side is concerned, I would like to point out here, with the Italian side we have long-term, very good friendships also within the defence industry. Here I would like to point out that the Italian party has been supplying us with materials and military components and technology worth about 5 billion in the last four years within the defence industry. Crowns. On the contrary, the Czech Republic gives a fraction, exports a fraction to Italy, which is about half a billion crowns in the same time as I mentioned it. If that's all it takes. Since the involvement of the domestic industry is also guaranteed by Bell, which with possible entities, with possible companies of the Czech Republic, as I said, state companies and other companies, has been signed a memorandum on the planned cooperation for the future, after delivery after 2023 of these helicopters, where de facto the preparation and implementation of the life cycle by means of service, maintenance and other things will be carried out. Furthermore, I would like to say that this is enhanced by the fact that the exchange of Mi-24 helicopters will not completely terminate the operation of Russian Provenence helicopters, because the Czech Army has in its armament other Mi-17 helicopters, Mi-171, transportation. So I see the purchase of American helicopters as an extension of the portfolio of these Czech companies and involvement, because it will continue even further before the replacement and termination of the life cycle of Russian Provenence and Armament helicopters. At present, these companies will be expanded in terms of technology and use of supplied helicopters from the American side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u63	Thank you, too. Vice-President Filip is still reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u64	Thank you again, Minister. Well, no offense, you have great confidence in the Ministry's legal service. I don't have that much confidence after my experience with CASA and other things. Therefore, I will, in some way, propose that you reject your answer, not for those factual reasons, but for the reason that we cannot answer how the legal dispute will develop, because we do not yet know the answer from the UOHS. And frankly, I don't want to write a new interview, and if we agree, for example, that I get an answer in some relatively short time, even though I know that you can't influence it from the UOHS, I wouldn't insist on rejecting your answer. The extra one, I accept, thank you for that. But in that case, the legal relationship, even though I know that what you said points to a rather strong argument. If we are buying a $5 billion circus from Italy and selling for half a billion, then the Ital should act as a good business partner and withdraw any lawsuits. But I don't have complete confidence in it. So my final proposal is - and that's only because of the possible legal defect - to reject your response to my interpelation. I'm happy with the rest of the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u65	So I see it as a motion to disagree. However, we can still continue the debate. So if anybody else checks in, I'd give them some space. If no one else is reporting, then I will conclude the debate and we will vote. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. [[After a while.]] Looks like there's everyone who wants to be here... That's it. I will repeat for those who are coming right now that we will vote on the House's dissenting position with the reply of the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar to the interview of Mr Vojtěch Filip on the planned purchase of helicopters for the army of the Czech Republic. Colleagues are still coming. There's an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna sign you off. Please log in with your cards again. In time, before the number of applicants is settled, I will repeat that we will vote on a disagreeable opinion with the response to the written interpelation of Vice-President Filip to Minister Metnar. That's all of you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of disagreeing. Who's against disapproval? Thank you. In the vote number 67, 80 Members and Members were finally enrolled, for 21, against 8. So a disagreeable position has not been accepted. Thank you. This interpelation ends here and I return the chairing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u66	Thank you. We will continue to respond to written interpelations which the Members have not agreed to. Another such intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Olga Richterová to the Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam on the death of a woman following the donation of eggs for the need for artificial insemination and related business. Interpelation has a House press of 706. Mrs. Olga Richterová is ready. Please take your word for it. The Minister is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u67	Hello, Minister, dear colleagues. I greet you, and at the same time I want to give you a little bit of the subject, because it might seem that it is not a matter that is directly on the interpellation of the Minister of Health. But it's a subject affecting an increasing number of people. Artificial insemination is a reality, for example, with an increasing age, but it's also a big business. And it is a business that has a connection to the interests of our Prime Minister, or his trust funds. That is why this business deserves significant public control. And then there are very big health risks. The context, where business interests outweigh people's health, is how tragedies occur in the finals, and because of one tragedy this interpelation has arisen, but also purely economically huge public costs. I'm just going to sum up a few numbers, and then, of course, these questions will follow, for which I expressed my disagreement with the Minister of Health's reply. But just to visualize the power in the assisted reproduction area that our country is. There are 43 assisted reproduction centers according to data from 2017 and there are said to be mass women coming from around 60 countries around the world. According to data from 2017, the turnover of this sector exceeded CZK 4 billion. It's really no small thing. And I asked how the ministry deals with, for example, the connection to the major health problems of women who were either donors or who had undergone the process, and especially how they dealt with the death of a woman after the donation of eggs for the purposes of artificial insemination. The thing is, these cases of really serious complications aren't unique, and they're the whole system, how it's set up to take the eggs out by the donor. I'll take the turn. As you know, I'm particularly concerned with social matters. And unfortunately, in this area, it's the connection that because of the missing register of donors, it's really possible today in our country - and it happens to people who then just give me backgrounds from the field, so in a situation where somebody doesn't have the rent, so to say, I'm going to donate. And since there's no donor registry, it's dangerous to donate with short intervals and in inappropriately high numbers, because there's got to be some kind of limit in order to avoid the most likely complications, so this isn't what we have here. And it's just possible to go from the clinic to the clinic and in this way you need to pay rent. These are real cases people tell me about. And it's scary because then we have a law that doesn't even apply. In that law, donation is to be free, purely with the payment of the costs that the person who gives the part of his body, in this case, is to donate the eggs. But in practice, in practice, the payments are about CZK 20, 25,000. The question is how the law is enforced. And that's one of the things I want to ask you. The Minister replied that there was a commission on reproductive medicine set up in 2017 and that, therefore, I assume that, on the basis of my initiative, the meeting will be convened in January and that the questions which I have asked will be answered by this committee. But it is no longer said, and now I come to these questions about how the Ministry of Health will ensure that the members of this committee themselves are not in conflict of interest, so that they do not benefit from the business that I have described, which simply needs strict supervision. I also wonder to what extent other expertise will be represented in this committee; expertise that solves follow-up care for women and children in case of complications related to, for example, the area of artificial insemination - neurologists, interns, children's doctors, endocrinologists. [[10.50 hours]] And one more thing I am extremely interested in is whether the Ministry is planning to produce statistics on the impact of assisted reproduction on women's health, based on existing health insurance data. The point is to know the overall risks and then give the donor adequate attention. That's the most common thing that the donor women wrote to me that they didn't know at all the great risks to the donation. So that's the last big question for the Ministry how it's going to make sure that they're not really formally informed consents, but that these women are really aware of the high risks associated with the repeated donation in particular. Finally, a comment on these questions. I don't think it's the right way to de facto legalize the current practice. And unfortunately, from the Ministry's answer, that seems to be the intention. I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u68	Thank you, Mrs Olza Richterová. Minister Adam Vojtěch, the Minister of Health, is ready to extend his written answer to additional questions from the Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I think that in the written answer from my point of view, that was quite well explained, but I will try to discuss it again. I'm sure it doesn't matter to me if it's somebody's business in particular. Among other things, the commission that was founded, as you rightly said, was founded in 2017. That means long before I came to the Ministry of Health. And of course, the commission is somehow composed, there are individual professional societies and it deals with reproductive medicine in accordance with the state's health policy. The commission was set up simply because this area is undoubtedly up to date. We know that the average age of parents is growing, that really artificial insemination is a method used, and it is appropriate that the Ministry should have an advisory body in this regard which will address this and comment on it. The composition of the commission and all the minutes of its meetings are published today because we were the first, I was the first to create a portal of the advisory bodies of the Ministry, where everyone can publicly, openly, transparently click on all the commissions and advisory bodies of the Ministry of Health, including minutes of meetings and so on. So it's all out in the open. It never was. So this is available. And if we're talking about some kind of supplement, I'm sure I don't have a problem with that. If you have a proposal for who should still be represented on that committee, I'm sure I'm prepared to supplement that committee if it makes sense. But I don't think that committee, just like it's set up today, is going to have any major conflict of interest, or would have to be clearly declared by those tax representatives. That means the commission was set up. We do all these things not on the basis of any opinions, but indeed in cooperation with professional companies. That is why we have also said that we will also want all these questions to be discussed by the Commission, because there are really many of these issues that are not political, they are really purely professional issues, and the professional public must have an opinion on this. Among other things, the commission is meeting on 26 February 2020, so it will address this, as I promised in the written reply to your intervention. As far as the individual issues and additions are concerned, we agree that it is appropriate to introduce a certain level of regulation in this area, that I actually, and I agree with you there, that it is not good that, at the moment, the financial remuneration for those donors is not being paid. That's where we think it should be ceilinged, just like it is in other states. In Slovakia it is a thousand euros, maximum amount. That means, in this context, we think that this is some kind of inspiration even in our terms. That's the first thing about payback. As far as the number of donations is concerned, I also agree that there should be a reduction in the number of donations to three to five maximum in the life of the donor. At present, these limits are not really given. This means that it is a matter that will certainly be a topic for the committee to discuss so as to limit the number of donations. And what is also very important, and I also agree with you there is currently no record. In short, if an egg donor goes around one centre after another throughout the Republic, there is no information on where this performance has already been provided, where it has already been the donation of eggs, where it has been done, at which centre. And so it may be that such a donor simply goes around one center at a time, without it being evident that several such donations have been made before. So here we are thinking very seriously about introducing a register that would register a given donor, even if we have to figure out with experts how to solve the issue of anonymity, because this information should not be published, or the donor, so we want to come up with some kind of anonymous recording mechanism. But I agree that it is a problem that there are risks in this regard, even if these are relatively rare complications, but more serious, such as intra-abdominal bleeding, as unfortunately happened in one of those cases. Unfortunately, we are currently unavailable, and therefore we have not been able to answer you, statistics that would actually show us the number of women who, following hormonal stimulation and collection of eggs, had health problems requiring hospitalization or have suffered some permanent damage to their health. Unfortunately, that is the fact that these statistics do not exist. This issue will also be discussed at the meeting of the committee responsible. So I don't think we're essentially in a dispute here. Maybe it's about some kind of precision, but that really should come from the debate within the expert committee. We are ready for this, and if you have any other suggestions, there is certainly no problem with discussing them with the relevant committee and then giving you more detailed information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u70	I thank the Minister of Health and ask who else in the debate - Mrs Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u71	Thank you for your answers. Since the time has almost reached, I will try very quickly to sum up the questions I have on the committee, namely: It is not publicly accessible because the portal is under login. So there's actually a need to register, but there's no link to registering. At least that's how it happened to me. Then the second thing, it goes directly to the question: will you introduce the register of the donor? You said you would, that you would examine it. Of course, there are registers elsewhere, so there must be somewhere to inspire. So then I'm just gonna ask you when it's gonna be. Then the statistics. It's just a huge, hugely important thing there. It's basically quality statistics in this area. So that's where I think the Ministry should have information. Finally, for the Commission, the question on the topic of promoting really solutions through cheaper and less invasive paths. So I just want to remind you that even in the answer, it was written that what is called male infertility is not so carefully treated, and the IVF centers have no detailed investigations. So I'm wondering whether the committee will also address the need to primarily promote cheaper and also less harmful health practices, such as the complete investigation to detect the causes of, say, men. Well, that would be my substantive questions about thanking the Minister for his efforts to answer, and I consider it done here at this plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u72	Thank you. I'm asking if -- well, I'm not asking the Minister anymore, because I can't accept the additional answers, it's 11:00. And the honourable Member did not propose a refusal to interpel, nor do we have anything to vote on. I'm closing the point of written interpelation. We have finished answering the Minister of Health's reply to Mrs Richterová's interpellation. We will continue to follow the fixed points, unless, of course, someone signs up for a debate that I can open at 11 o'clock on Thursday to change the agenda. If this is not the case, we will follow the fixed points. The first point is point 290, this is House document 4100 - the management of members' clubs for 2020. And points 229, 230, 231, 232, 233 continue, and these are petitions, recommendations from the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's work. So much for that and I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-001-291.u73	Hello. Mrs Majerová Zahradníková votes with the replacement card number 15. Since there were no proposals to amend the approved agenda for the meeting, we will address point number
