ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out, I will ask you to sign up again with your identification cards, or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. Mr Munzar votes with replacement card number 10. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 61st meeting on 30 September of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate a Member of Kateřina Valachová and a Member of Vít Rakušan. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers...? If that's not the case... With voting card number 17, President Vondráček votes. Now, let's vote on the verifiers. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number one, 80 Members registered, 79, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Kateřina Valachová and Mr Vít Rakušan, as verifiers of the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. As we are not fully present, I note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs. And now we're going to set up the 61st meeting, whose proposal is on the invitation. First, let me introduce you to a proposal on which today's grémium has been agreed. The Grémium proposes only one minor change, to include a new point, House document 6190 - the schedule of the state budget for 2021. Now I have several applications with priority rights. First she signed up for the meeting of Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please. Then I had a written application from President Jurečka on my desk, and President Faltýnek came forward. And then Vice-President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to support the agenda for today's meeting and ask you, as proposed, to vote in favour of it, that the first item be discussed in an amendment to the Employment Act, called. cursarbeit, and allow me to support the reasons that lead me to this request. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for an amendment to the Employment Act, which relates to the so-called Cursarbeit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u3	Yes, I understand. Quiet in the hall, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The designation known from Germany was also in our country, although it is not a copy of the German one and it cannot be. So let me now think about not only the proposal itself, but also the circumstances of its origin and some other contexts. [[The noise is still going on.]] Amendment to Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on employment, which brings this new regulation, was born very hard. The situation was complicated not only by the uncertainty created by the pandemic but also by the different expectations of individual participants. The government was under pressure from social partners who wanted to have a more permanent standard to deal with sudden situations similar to the one that has now occurred. Thus, the government responds to the demand for solutions for situations where employers cannot temporarily allocate their employees full-time work, whether due to obstacles to work caused by force majeure, because of temporary restrictions on the disposal of their products or because of restrictions on demand for services provided by them, and the causes of the restriction go beyond normal business risks and the situation cannot be used by ordinary management instruments or other options -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u5	I'm gonna cut you off for a moment, and I'm really gonna ask for some peace in the room. If you have something to discuss, go to the lobby and allow the Secretary to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u6	And they cannot be used using common management tools or other options to promote employment and entrepreneurship. This year's situation is not entirely new. You will remember the summers of 2008 to 2009, when our economy was exposed to a similar situation. Although it was more moderate in a number of indicators, the automotive industry did not stop at that time from day to day and dropped by one third in two months, but even then it was that companies lost their orders quite quickly because their foreign customers were in crisis. Already at that time, voices sounded that it would be good to have a similar instrument that our neighbors have in Germany or Austria. A tool that helps companies overcome the worst time of contract decline and allows them to retain the most important employees, with whom they will quickly resume production when the crisis passes. However, neither the German nor the Austrian model can be easily transferred to our terms. After long discussions, the amendment of the Employment Act, which, in the form of Section 115, provided a new instrument for active employment policy, was then adopted. This is the contribution at the time of partial unemployment. [[The noise lasts, the chairman rings to calm the room.]] When she came -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u7	I'm really asking you to relax. If there's anything you need to discuss, go outside! You need to make a phone call, get out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u8	When the Coronavirus crisis came, our government responded, like the governments of other countries, by restricting certain business activities to prevent the spread of the virus. Other companies have limited or stopped their operations for various reasons themselves. In doing so, it has been shown that the contribution at the time of partial employment cannot meet employers' needs. The government therefore decided to use another legal option and created a targeted government programme under Section 120 of the Employment Act under the name Antivirus in two modifications. Antivirus C was a separate measure, not a programme under the Employment Act, etc. Governments from other countries responded similarly. Other countries have also acceded to the creation of special support programmes or to the modification of existing standard cursarbeit adjustments. No one was prepared for the situation that occurred. We knew from the beginning that our Antivirus programs, too, are temporary, have to bridge the worst period of quarantine and then it is necessary to return to supporting economic activity. It turned out that the adjustment of the contribution at the time of partial employment in the Employment Act was too restrictive and that it had to be replaced by another instrument that would respond better to the need for the economy. [[10.10 hours]] What is being put forward for discussion today is the result of a compromise. While the main objective of the end-of-the-year Antivirus programme was to maintain employment and thus mitigate the effects of unemployment at the time of the economic closure, new measures are intended to promote work and real economic performance. It is important to note that the aim is to create a standard and permanent tool. Even in the future, we do not renounce the possibility of using the targeted programme again if the situation is as specific as the one we faced in the spring of this programme. I remind you that even in countries where they have such a standard instrument, for example in Germany, they have adopted temporary changes in operating conditions or new programmes. As Minister of Finance, I have advocated a version that will meet this very objective, which will promote work and economic performance. It will be beneficial for each of the participants, i.e. employers, employees and the state, but at the same time each of the participants will participate in it. Employers will not lose well-established and proven employees who are key to a rapid response to the recovery of demand. At the same time, it will save resources that would otherwise be spent to compensate for wages or termination of the employment relationship of such employees. Employees maintain employment, do not become unemployed, and their income will be higher than unemployment support. The state then retains at least part of its income from maintaining part-time employment and, above all, minimises the time needed to overcome the economic outage and return to normal. Employers who are relieved by the proposal in a very large part of the costs that they would otherwise have to incur must contribute at least partially to the reimbursements related to their employees. We propose payment of health insurance and part of social insurance. Although employees lose part of their income, they retain a job and the support will be higher than they would have as job applicants. The State will then pay more than it would have paid in the form of unemployment aid, and it will lose part of its income, but it will avoid the costs of unemployment and the search for work for redundant workers. Assistance must be targeted because it is intended to contribute to the preservation of specific workers at specific jobs. It's supposed to be a very special instrument. The government must have his app under control. They must be able to use it thoughtfully in line with the set goals, the economic and social situation in the state as well as in the global context. Therefore, the possibility of using it must be linked to a government regulation which also sets out specific parameters of the aid in such a way as to correspond to the particular reasons for which the aid was started. It will also allocate the necessary resources. I would like to stress that there will continue to be all other possibilities of promoting employment and entrepreneurship and that the rights and obligations arising from the Labour Code and other labour legislation will continue to apply. Employers will still have responsibilities towards their employees, entrepreneurs will continue to be responsible for their management decisions. What we are proposing is not a universal tool that should replace existing practices and practices. After months of negotiations, we have a proposal that assumes that if production in the company is discontinued for up to four days a week, the State will pay 70 per cent of the net wage of such an employee for unfinished days. The scope of the days when the employer cannot allocate work should be monitored for each supported employee precisely because it is targeted aid. The staff member may be supported for up to 12 months. But it must be an employed person who is crucial to his employer, and the employer is counting on him. It should therefore have a probationary period and an indefinite employment contract. In a time when he doesn't work, he's being supported by the state. The employer is obliged to pay part of the social and full health insurance for such an employee even if he does not assign him a job. During the period during which the employee works, he receives a salary from his employer under normal regime. It cannot be imagined, therefore, that a situation where an employer is unable to allocate 80 per cent of work, which is up to four days a week, would be sustainable in the long term. The conditions thus set can only be tolerated temporarily. Our measures must not prevent movement in the labour market, which is linked to structural changes, from blocking workers in non-perspective locations and from preventing the development of firms and sectors that have growth potential. It should be noted that it is precisely the setting of parameters of government regulations that will be very difficult and that every government that will activate the cursarbeit will take great responsibility for its impact. It will be difficult not to succumb to the pressures that can be expected. It will be difficult to distinguish between situations where it is indeed a short-term and overcome business problem and where it is a fundamental change in the market that cannot be avoided without structural shifts in the labour market. By artificially maintaining employment even in places for which work is not and will not be, we would also take an unequal approach. A staff member who would be supported by his employer without a job allocation would have an disproportionately better position than one for whom there is no work, but his employer has either released him or not entered the programme. I must also say that in my travels around the Republic, I increasingly encounter the urgent requests of employers and their calls for labour. The blocked labour market is a major obstacle to further development. We must not make the mistake of succumbing to the call of only one side of the employer's spectrum and not paying attention to those who need employees and are ready to assign them jobs. The flexibility and ability of rapid change are crucial to maintaining competitiveness. The state must not distort the business environment by its intervention. As Minister of Finance, I feel the need to stabilise the economy, and therefore I support a version of a tool called the Kursarbeit, which will not distort the labour market and will fulfil its purpose by overcoming the temporary job failure. Frequent comparisons with German cursarbeit are very tricky. Employment services in Germany and the financing of measures and the granting of benefits have completely different foundations. The operation of cursarbeit is based on insurance principles, the funds come from a fund consisting of contributions of employees and employers. The state is making a significant contribution to it at the moment when the conditions due to the crisis are temporarily softened. The employees receiving the aid have contracted reduced working hours and are actually partly unemployed. With the status of partial unemployment they are paid by the Federal Agency of Insurance Fund work, they are also obliged to fulfil the obligations of the unemployed. The German Kursarbeit can start in a situation where 10 per cent of the company's employees are affected by a wage loss of 10 per cent. The entry into the cursarbeit mode is not automatic. Whether the company meets the conditions for entry into the cursarbeit is decided by the association agency, i.e. our employment office. It decides whether it is really a temporary blackout, whether other options are exhausted. There will also be situations where the Agency rejects the application or requires repayment of the aid. There are ongoing lawsuits. It is this agency that pays 60 per cent of the net salary from the insurance fund for an unfinished period. Parents with children benefit from 7 percent higher compensation. Currently, the adjustment is temporarily favoured, from the fourth month it is 70 per cent and from the seventh month 80 per cent. The Agency shall also temporarily cover both employer and insurance premiums. In the ordinary regime, however, these so-called ancillary labour costs are borne by the employer. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] When comparing the regime in Germany and the Czech Republic, we often forget the whole context, but also that the current advantage of foreign regulation is temporary, while we create a standard tool.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u9	I'll ask for peace in the hall again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u10	It is in the way of financing and the position of both the employee and the employer that the difference between the Czech and German cursarbeit is crucial. If German is insurance and is not essentially dependent on state financing, then Czech cursarbeit is fully dependent on the state budget. That is why we can learn lessons in Germany, but we cannot copy. And we certainly cannot go the way of collecting raisins from the pie, i.e. by taking only the benefits that are useful to the participants, and ignoring the conditions that are not appropriate. After all, it took them decades in Germany to set up the entire labour market support system. Right now, we are doing a second attempt to introduce a support mechanism for employers in short-term uninhibited difficulties and their employees who cannot work fully. So let us give the proposal a chance, discuss it in context, and look for solutions that correspond not only to the partial interests but to the conditions of our economy as a whole. With full responsibility, I also say that we have not yet allowed people not to work, and yet they have basically been paid full wages, we cannot continue. On the one hand, due to the disappearance of emergency measures in the spring of this year, to ensure labour market flexibility and a more even distribution of costs, and, last but not least, to the fact that the economy has bounced from the bottom and needs the labour market not to be a brake on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now I have several applications with priority rights. First President Jurečka, then President Faltýnek, then Vice-President Okamura, then President Michálek, then President Stanjura, then President Chvojka. Those are priority rights so far. So please, Mr. President Jurečka, and Mr. President Faltýnek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, good morning. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government and dear colleagues, colleagues, I would like to allow two additions to this draft programme. The first supplement concerns the response to the current development, which has been growing for the last few weeks from the point of view of covid disease. I wanted to ask if she could be included here as a second item after the first reading of the amendment to the unemployment law Information of the Government on the current situation in COVID-19 so that there would be room and the Minister could prepare for it. I know there's a meeting from the Prime Minister here tomorrow when he invites the Party Chair in the House to the video conference. For that, thank you for being exactly after the month I asked him to do it in a text message, but that will be a meeting between the Prime Minister and us, as I understand it. But I think that the public, the representatives of individual sectors that are actually involved, deserve to have up-to-date information about what steps have been taken, what measures have already been taken and what are they going to be. So this is the first proposal, i.e. point Information of the Government on the situation of COVID-19, so that it should be included as an item for the first reading of the amendment to the Employment Act. And then I wanted to ask Parliament's press to include 959, it's a Senate proposal on a compensation bonus, that's the 500 for the regions and the capital of Prague, and I would like that if it could be classified as the 922, the government's bill on income taxes, when it's second reading, so for this point include this House's press 959, this House (?) a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Now, President Faltýnek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u14	Good morning. Colleagues and fellow Members, Mr President, allow me to make a proposal to amend the agenda, as I have already announced at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the proposal is as follows: tonight, as the third item, we will discuss the House Press 922 of the Ministry of Finance, the Government's proposal on income taxes, second reading. It's called. flat-rate tax. So for the state budget schedule, as you already know from Gremium. Then the House Prints points 669, the MP's proposal on arms handling, second reading, and the House's print 92 of the Ministry of the Interior on firearms, second reading, put it firmly on 14.30 today. Furthermore, so that item number 4 in this proposal is the Parliamentary Press 800, the Government's Bill on Military Intelligence, first reading, and behind that the House's Press 986, the Parliamentary Bill - the Civil Code, first reading, so-called. A protected account, from a workshop by my colleague Valachová and Patrik Nacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Next up, Vice-President Okamura is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I would like to propose three points on the agenda, but there will still be proposals from our Member Radek Koten. Firstly, I would like to propose a proposal for a SPD to freeze the salaries of politicians. It's a bill from the SPD pen, it's a print of 982. I think that we already have October and really approaching December, and if we do not quickly discuss the proposal from the SPD to freeze politicians' salaries, so there is a risk that, in this situation, when citizens do not have money and a number of citizens are getting into a complex social and economic situation - by the way, because the government has not prepared measures for economic aid and at the same time rejected the SPD proposals, we have had over 40 bills and amendments to economic aid to our employees, small, medium-sized firms, businessmen, disabled people, seniors, because I have already been alone here in the spring, acting on the alarm that if we do not adopt together, that the government is adopting health measures, but it has completely forgotten the economic and social support measures, and it has come to my words, when a number of citizens are actually getting into very complex economic and social situations - so that there is a situation that citizens are in need and citizens have problems on one side, but politicians would have increased their wages since January. The SPD doesn't agree with that. The SPD thinks that politicians should set an example and that politicians' salaries should be frozen. I would like to mention that this bill of ours, essentially analogous, has already been voted on by the House. She voted on it two years ago. The SPD designed this place alone, and we proposed freezing politicians' salaries by 2021, that is, for the entire parliamentary term. And I would remind you that none of the other political parties essentially supported us in our proposal. I mean, the club as a whole, maybe there was an individual here, but basically the other parties didn't support us. That's why our proposal failed. Now I have to smile a little bit at the proposals, because we have just before the House elections and they will be soon and suddenly propose a similar proposal here, for example. Pirates and design here - and verbally, just as it is customary, Mrs Maláčová from ČSSD also proposes, verbally, only verbally speaking, there is no proposal on the table, as always with ČSSD. That means, I just wanted to say that the SPD here has already suggested it, it has been voted on, it hasn't passed. Okay, now before the election, someone else is suggesting it, even though they didn't support us two years ago, but in any case, I think we could include it. There's no time, so we're going to propose it at this meeting, if you don't support us, the appointment at this meeting, we're going to propose it again at the next meeting. We will propose this at each meeting by the end of the parliamentary term, because we want it to go through the freezing of politicians' salaries. And now we're proposing it, just the freezing, for next year, because we have to set an example. So we're proposing an option that I think is a compromise because I know that many of you don't want it. We at the SPD want it, so let's at least suggest it with this compromise option, or we suggest it has a chance of getting through here in the House. So that's print 982. As a second point, which I would like to put on the agenda of the meeting from the SPD, is the proposal to amend the Income Tax Act, House press 836, and the basis of our proposal is a significant increase in tax discounts for all taxpayers of personal income taxes, employees and businessmen, and thus an increase in their net income. [[10.30 hours]] Simply put, we want to increase the so-called discount on the taxpayer. We want to encourage all working people to keep more money in their wallets. We want to leave more resources for all honest and hardworking citizens, and our proposal will bring an extra CZK 1 035 per month to every working citizen on average. The aim of our proposal is also to remedy a completely unbearable state where most of the existing tax discounts have not been increased for more than 12 years, with inflation rising by more than 20 percent over the same time and average wage by more than 50 percent. So even from this point of view, low tax discounts for working citizens no longer fulfil their purpose and their setting needs to be adapted to the current situation. In the current situation, our proposal is also a necessary systemic step in the context of the emerging economic and social crisis as a result of the impact of restrictive measures on coronavirus, where we in the SPD want to leave more money to the working citizens, so that it is up to them to decide how they will deal with them and, at the same time, to help our entire economy to reboot so much. So the SPD suggests that, if I sum up, to all working people, including students, disabled people who earn extra money, seniors and working people, but also the single moms who work to raise their tax discount, a discount on the taxpayer, and leave them an average of a thousand a month in an extra pocket. By the way, the fact that the discount on the taxpayer has not increased for those working people for 12 years does indeed show a completely trivial approach to the current and current governments of the ANO movement, ČSSD, with the support of the KSČM about access, about the exact approach to working people. Because different groups of people support themselves here, but working people are completely forgotten here, which is why for 12 years no one has basically given them an increase in their discount on the taxpayer. And that's a really terrible condition. And we want to make it right. We know about this in the SPD, which is why we have the bill here to draw attention to it in this crisis as well. And I think now is a good time to accept our proposal. Specifically, we propose 50 per cent, from CZK 24,840 to CZK 37 260 per year, to increase the tax discount for each taxpayer, employee and businessman, as well as the discount on the working wife or husband from the current CZK 24,840 to CZK 37 260 per month. At the same time, we propose that this increase in the tax discount should have an appropriate effect, as well as an increase in the annual income limit of the spouse, namely the spouse to whom this discount can be applied, from 68 thousand. CZK 102,000. CZK to be usable for those families where women take care of their smallest children, because we support working families with children. Current annual income limit of 68 thousand. The Czech Republic started to pay at a time when, for example, the minimum wage was 8 thousand. Crowns a month. So look how the government overslept. The minimum wage is almost once so high, but the support of working families has basically increased zero. The government totally bailed. So, in fact, working people have been made by the current government, in fact, the biggest hitters that are working their way out of taxes, and that's all. That means the minimum wage was 8,000. A month. This is when current discounts are set on the taxpayer, i.e. at a time when the lowest incomes of citizens who deserve our support have reached significantly lower values than they are today. Likewise, since then, prices of basic life needs have risen sharply, which is something the government has probably not noticed, which is why it does not support this proposal at all. So it is truly ruthless that the government has already given an opinion on this bill of ours to help working people. And she didn't give a positive opinion! This means that the government of the YES movement, the ČSSD did not support our proposal to increase the discount on the taxpayer in negotiations with the government, that is to say, the support of working people. And in line with our long-term struggle to improve the situation of our disabled fellow citizens, we also propose to increase annual tax discounts for the working holders of the ZPP/P card from CZK 16,140 to CZK 24,210. Of course, this would also apply to tax discounts for workers who are disabled at all three levels. That's the SPD proposal. There we even propose to increase these discounts by 100 percent, because the disabled people really need to be supported to the maximum. Invalids need to be supported to the maximum. In the first and second levels of invalidity, we propose to increase the discount from CZK 2,520 to CZK 5 040 per year and from CZK 5 040 per year in the third stage to CZK 10 080 per year. The common denominator of this group of proposed amendments to the SPD is the assistance and support of disabled workers whose disability pension income is generally low and insufficient to live a dignified life, despite various valorisations. This is why it is an important way to improve the income situation and to increase tax discounts, which is a de facto reduction in income tax of its kind. Here I would point out that the SPD is repeatedly trying to support the lowest pensions, the lowest disability and old-age pensions. That's why our bill here is to enact a minimum dignified pension at the level of the poverty line, which is something below about 15,000. Crowns a month. Because the government doesn't realize that for those pensions that they have, like, eight to ten thousand, those are the lowest pensions, you just can't live on. And we, with all possible means, are trying to propose laws to help these people, and the government is incomprehensiblely refusing to do so. Government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM. We also propose to increase by 100 percent tax discounts for working students from CZK 4 020 and CZK 8 040 per year. This step aims to favour working students and also to help their socially and economically weaker parents and families, which share some of the costs of study or studies. As a general rule, therefore, the aim and purpose of these SPD proposals is to remedy an unbearable state where these discounts have not been increased for working citizens for 12 years. At the same time, it is also a significant reduction in the direct tax burden and an increase in net income for all taxpayers, more significantly for spouses and families, since marriage and family are worthy of their special protection and support as key institutes of our society. The long-term objective of this proposal by the SPD is therefore also to promote positive population and demographic development of Czech society - I mean the support of working families, working parents - in particular the promotion of a long-term stable increase in birth rate, which, of course, will also lead to the sustainability of the pension system. Of course, the government has also abandoned it here because experts have long warned that the pension system will be financially unsustainable if we do not have more children from working families. And citizens are afraid to have more children because they're just afraid they won't feed them. And that's a real problem. I must point out that the government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement has been in the government for seven years and unfortunately it is not moving anywhere. And as a third point, we want to propose a 377, press on the agenda, which is to combat usury, which is an extremely important thing in the current situation, because it is precisely because the government has forgotten or refuses to accept the economic proposals from the SPD pen, but also other opposition parties, but we have proposed more than 40 of them, our proposals, so people find themselves without money and without work. And so many people find themselves in a situation where they have to borrow somewhere. And because they are in a difficult situation and do not need employment, of course, banking institutions often do not lend them, so they have to go to non-bank institutions. And there are, of course, these outrageous interest rates, often in tens of percent of the RPSN, and of course, these people, and again and again, are getting into executions and debt traps. That is why, under the SPD, we have proposed a law to put an annual interest rate on costs, the so-called RPSN. Cease interest on consumer credit. I must say that this law applies in most EU countries. He was even accepted in Slovakia. As a result, most non-bank institutions left the Slovak market. What we need to do now is to keep people who are in need socially from rejecting the proposals for economic and social aid to citizens, and they are getting into these problems today, so that if someone already borrows, so that it is not for the outrageous interest of usury, which will finally be a problem again, because those people and their families will end up on welfare benefits. And once again it will have to bail out the state, and then, of course, the government will be here again to interpret how it has no money and how it needs hundreds of billions of deficits because there is no money. He doesn't do anything to keep us out of those deficits. [[10.40 hours]] So we're saying in advance, we're going to adopt a law to put interest on loans, so we're going to keep other people and others from falling into debt traps, and of course we're going to save the state, which, of course, logically, can't leave those people on the street like they're leaving them on the street final, because with our proposal to nationalize executors, the government is still rejecting it, which would also solve the unbearable mafia situation that is around execution. Well, at least we'd stop that entry by accepting our proposal to put interest on usury and adjust the terms in a positive direction. So these are the three SPD proposals, and I suggest they be classified as fixed points. Here were the suggestions that were made here by President Faltýnek. I understand that they have probably the best chance of passing. So for the proposals from the YES pen that will pass, those are the proposals from the Gremium, or those from the Prime Minister's statement, so we suggest that they be placed in the order of what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u17	I'm just gonna make it clear, because there's a couple of suggestions, so for the fifth point, first reading, a protected account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u18	Yes, and in order: freeze the salaries of politicians, increase the tax discount on the taxpayer and the third interest ceiling, i.e. the termination of the loan shark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u19	Yes, thank you. I made a note. Next up, Prime Minister Michálek, President Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the petitioner for the House's motion for press 978, the amendment to the Act on the salary of representatives of state power, signed by the Group of Members Ivan Bartoš, Jan Bartošek, Vít Rakušan, Mikuláš Ferjenčík and others, I submit a proposal to include this item in the agenda for today's meeting, for the item of a protected account. It is therefore a proposal that, in short, means freezing the salaries of constitutional officials for 2021, and we are following the principle that we in the Chamber of Deputies have long defended that politicians' salaries should depend on the situation in the economy. So it is not self-punishment or some devaluation of the work of a Member, which, of course, any voter can judge in elections. We come from the situation that in the second quarter of this year, the economy fell by 10.9 percent year on year. Our economy is suffering, hundreds of thousands of people have lower incomes, they have additional obligations, the state is in debt, we have a deficit of CZK 500 billion. In this situation, it would indeed be inappropriate to increase the salaries of constitutional officials. That is why we are proposing a quick patch solution for 2021, because no one knows how the situation will continue to develop, how long the coronavirus will be here with us. The essence of the proposal is that constitutional officials will have the same salaries in 2021 as in 2020. This concerns both politicians and members of various councils, so it concerns representatives of justice, judges and prosecutors. This proposal is in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and we have followed it with full respect for the independence of justice. In its case-law, the Constitutional Court expressed two basic principles on which an adjustment should be based, ensuring a stable material background, which is expressed by the fact that the judges should not have a salary to decrease. And the second principle that if possible, if there are any changes, it should be the same for all, both for politicians and for judges, so as not to prosecute judges as one of the powers in the system of division of power under the Constitution of the Czech Republic. So it's a provisional proposal, we don't know what's going to happen next year. And in the course of the time that this will give us the opportunity to prepare a conceptual solution that we are working on with Mr Nacher, with the YES movement, so that the level of compensation depends on constitutional factors from some objective quantity, such as gross domestic product, so that it will valorize at a time when the economy is doing well, so that the salaries of constitutional actors will respond to that, or according to the average wage in the economy. This would be a conceptual proposal that we would have prepared by the end of the parliamentary term and which would have followed up on this one-off solution. Of course, we are in a situation that requires the Chamber of Deputies to proceed quickly, because it takes at least 60 days to approve the bill to discuss the Senate, the President of the Republic and the legisvacancing, so that the law becomes effective from 1. 1st next year, and it is therefore necessary to discuss this proposal today in order to leave the Chamber of Deputies for further consideration by 31 October. Therefore, I would like to ask you to allow this proposal to be discussed because it is submitted pursuant to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. If a triple reading of the bill were to take place, it would mean that it will not be able to approve from the beginning of next year. This is a simple, basically one sentence in the law, which actually builds salaries in 2021 to the value in 2020. I will also add a second proposal, in the event that the SPD's proposal also goes through the issue of salaries, so that these two proposals are discussed together in order that the SPD's proposal is discussed after our proposal, or in order for a joint debate to take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. President Stanjura with priority rights on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. I know there's been a lot going on in politics over the last seven days, but let's try to remember why we met today. In the committee week, though, at a proper meeting, but on an extraordinary date. We are therefore gathered here because the government has received one vote in the Chamber of Deputies for its intention to approve cursarbeit in a short procedure in a legislative emergency. One vote. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has expressed himself - and I agree with him - that the bill has failed. Very cleverly put, but why not, let's be polite. The bill didn't work. Then we agreed in the Chamber of Deputies that we would meet this week because, in my opinion, that principle does not reject any parliamentary club, so we agree on the title. The problem is the contents of the law. I don't think I understood the Secretary of Finance's speech at all, maybe because she wanted to speak first, when she came in and convinced us to put that point in place. Madam Secretary, this is approved by the Organizing Committee, for all the MPs, so I don't fully understand why you were plotting to be included in the program because it will pass like a butter knife, I think they'll all be present for me. I don't see why not. I'd expect maybe something else. I would expect the government to come up with an offer for political negotiations at the moment, invite representatives of the MPs, agree on the principles in which the law is to be amended, and then, if necessary, this political agreement should be rewritten by the government's legislators in an accurate + + + + + + + + + + + + / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / We are in danger of discussing dozens of amendments. Of course, we've filed more than ten since we were ready for last Wednesday. And I don't think it's a happy move. I am giving this procedure to the government after today's first reading, so that one of the members of the government, Minister Maláčová, cannot now, that is clear, organise negotiations to agree, if possible, on the principles of the changes that we will work there, e.g. what is the limit for the support, etc., I could name one after another, but I'll keep that until the general debate on that particular point, and then give it to government legislation to write it right, so that someone doesn't accidentally make a mistake there. And, of course, the opposition has much less options than the government in terms of the legislative correctness of any amendments. [[10.50 hours]] Our common interest must be that the law is good. We may not all be satisfied that one or another parameter is not exactly what we or our political party think it is, but it should be good and functional. And I've already answered the question at the end of August that if we do it on January 1st, it will actually be an excellent result, because the work here hasty little valid pays double. When we discussed this last week, because the cursarbeit, when we use the nice German word, has been replaced by Antivirus programs in the past months, three programs. The two, which were a grant title, that is, the government has decided on it, so far the government is paying and should pay for another 23 days, and the third, which was approved by the law of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, concerned small companies up to 50 employees, and since President Vondráček told me that it would be appropriate for us to discuss this at the same time, because it is evident that if it goes well, the cursarbeit will be valid from 1 January, and we have the whole autumn and the beginning of winter ahead of us, which means that we have the last four months of this year's economic year ahead of us, so I propose that, as the third point of the programme, this means that, after the cursarbeit and after the schedule of the state budget, we will discuss the House press 947, which proposes the remission of social insurance to companies up to 50 employees by the end of August, and as item number four, the House print 948, which proposes the remission of minimum social security advances to self-employed persons as well by the end of the same parameters in the same year. If I am to express what is to be done with the promotion of employment by the end of the year, I can also rely on the opinion of our COVID commission, where we discussed this honestly, we have had enough data provided by individual ministries, so the view of the civil democrats is actually identical to that of this committee. We think the government should extend Antivirus A until it pays for the cursarbeit. I remind you that it's up to 80 percent of the supergross wage, when people are quarantined, that is, it's quarantined - we see that these costs have gone down rapidly, that it's no longer a full-scale measure today. I have the latest figures, I think for August or July, when it was only 45 miles. Crowns. I think that's a helpful step towards employers. On the contrary, our commission, and it is the same view of civil democrats, does not recommend the extension of the Antivirus B programme that is being used, I apologize for the simplification when the employer does not find work. If he hasn't found her since that March, there's no chance he'll ever find her again. At the same time, we hear the legitimate sadness of other employers who are unable to get new workers even at this time, because they have contracts, but unfortunately they do not have enough labour. And, of course, we recommend, and it was also a recommendation from the COVID Commission of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the Antivirus C programme by the end of the year, which is a significant cost saving on the part of small employers under the conditions that are in the law, that is, they had to keep at least 90 per cent of the jobs they had in March, and they had to keep at least 90 per cent of the wage volume against what the wage volume was in March as well. I would very much like us to put it in place and vote. We can certainly discuss the possible advantages or disadvantages of this proposal in the context of the general debate at first reading, but I think that both businessmen and small companies deserve to be voted on and decided. I recommend, of course, that we be in favour, but those of you who may be opposed will have room in the debate to, if necessary, speak with arguments as to why they do not consider this a good idea. Both of these measures, and we have to say that honestly, but I think they're based on the numbers we have at the ministries, they mean a 25 billion loss in social income. CZK by the end of this year, 16 of which is the proposal that would relieve small companies of 50 employees, and 9.2 billion. is the relief we propose for our businessmen. Thank you for supporting both of these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good morning, colleagues. I have three things. Unfortunately, the first thing is that I must apologize to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová from today's meeting. The reason is that she has been in working contact with about three or four colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and they are unfortunately tested positive for covid, and today she prefers to be in preventive quarantine so that she may not endanger us. She's waiting for the test result she passed today. When she knows what's going on, she'll either come, and I believe she'll come, and I wish her good health, or she won't. Unfortunately, today, like I said, she can't be with us because she doesn't want to put us at risk in case her test is possibly positive. Therefore, I apologize to Secretary Maláčová. Unfortunately, it has complicated some of the things she has put forward, but I believe that you will all understand this, honourable colleagues and colleagues. Then the second thing. We certainly support the inclusion of Mr Michálek's proposal on the so-called freezing of salaries, but we think we have a better solution. Unfortunately, as I was saying, Minister Maláčová is not here. We have a government proposal that does not want to freeze salaries, but wants to cut them down, follow up on the so-called minimum wage, so we think that this is a better solution. But if the Minister is not here, we will certainly support a parliamentary proposal that addresses at least the freezing of the salaries of Members and others, because it is not only about the salaries of Members, but also about the salaries of senators, ministers and others. We really think that at a time that is now, that means at a time when a lot of people don't know how it will be in the future with their salaries, with their jobs, so it would be immoral and immoral to take from 1. 1. salaries, respectively remuneration for the performance of the function, have been raised, so we agree at least with freezing. One last thing. We have a program priority as a ČSSD, and I know it has support for some other parties, such as the Pirates. We, as the ČSSD, as an MP, have submitted an amendment to the Health Insurance Act. It's 695 printing. I'd just make it very clear what it's about. We found, after consulting experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that the long-term infirmary, which means the institute, which we adopted as well as the father two years ago, still has minor difficulties in practice. One of the pitfalls is that we have a condition of hospitalization for seven days to qualify for a long-term infirmary, and there is a condition to require a long-term infirmary on the day the patient is released from the hospital. The period of hospitalization is getting shorter and the family is not always able to say whether long-term care is able to provide its own or not. And we therefore propose a reduction in hospital conditions for four days, including the date of admission and the date of release from the hospital and a 15-day period for the possibility of applying for a long-term infirmary. We think that this proposal is for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic, for the benefit of those who have a relative, a close family member, in the hospital and want to take care of it themselves in their home, that is, outside the medical facility. This proposal should untie hands and help people who want to take care of such a sick person, and also, and we must not forget, should release beds in hospitals. Let's hope you don't need them, but at this time, you never know. This means that this press 695, an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, we would like to place it firmly after a firm inclusion of the amendment to the Pays Act, if any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. I'll recap. First you supported another proposal and then you propose your print 695 - long term infirmary. I just haven't picked up what part of today it should be. [[Ambassador Chvojka: On salary.]] Yes. If salaries are included, it's for salaries. Well, that's all of the priority rights for the moment. Mr Ondráček was the first to sign up for the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u26	Good morning, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to all the suggestions that were made here that hour. It's a shame the secretary told us 20 minutes about the first point of the meeting. We could have been spared 20 minutes. But I'd like to ask her when the agenda of the meeting is approved so she doesn't reread it, to refer to the original performance, when she justified the agenda of the meeting, the cursarbeit, so she doesn't read the initial entry report again. It is a pity that the President has not alerted his colleague, although I understand, of course, that he has priority rights. But I will now take the liberty of responding to some of the proposals that have fallen. President Faltýnek, if he listens to me, suggested some points and suggested to firmly include points 669 and 92 as points after lunch break at 14.30. [[The appointed one is discussing at the government bench]] [[Member of the Faltynek: Press.]] Press, sorry, press, sorry, thank you. Prints 669 and 92. I believe that we can discuss them firmly, that we must first include them in the agenda of this meeting, because they are not included. So I will allow these two points to be included in this meeting as item 4 and 5, and, of course, those points 4 and 5, which Mr Faltýnek spoke of, that is, House Press 800, that is, Military Intelligence, and paragraph 5, press 986, the Civil Code, to move as item 6 and 7. Because otherwise, we wouldn't have gotten to it if we hadn't included those points in the agenda, so it's probably hard to discuss their fixed appointment for the afternoon. That would be the first point. So put prints 669 and 92 in the meeting first as points 4 and 5. And I agree with what the President has said, we will support their solid inclusion at 14.30 p.m. as the first two points. At the same time, I would like to propose an addition to one point, which is also from the Security Committee section, and this is House Press No. 794. It is an amendment to the Fire Rescue Corps Act, where, after the first meeting and after discussion in the committee, first in the subcommittee for the Fire Rescue Corps, chaired by colleague Pavel Růžička, where we adopted minor amendments, and after discussion in the Security Committee, where no further proposals have been made, so let me say that this is essentially a non-controversial point in the second reading. And I feel from the negotiations with my colleagues that there will be no further amendments in plenary either. So we could essentially live up to what we wanted, and that's taking effect from 1. 1. 2021. It is a simple amendment that allows professional firefighters, but also firefighters to volunteer to show flat-rates in traffic accidents, that is to say, scrapping the administration. I think it was quite widely said here. And I believe, after the discussions with my colleagues in the Security Committee and with all those who want to comment on our security points, that those points number or House prints, sorry, 669, 92, but also that 794, if we were to include him in the second reading of these points, we would be able to discuss this afternoon after a break within one hour. We know about the three amendments that will be read into previous prints. We do not know of any other amendment that is yet there. So I would like to ask you, colleagues from social democracy, it is also agreed with the Minister of the Interior, who is the petitioner of this proposal, colleagues from the right side of the political spectrum, to support this proposal, that is to say to include paragraph 794 newly as point 6 in that security package for point 92 and its inclusion in the afternoon section. [[printing]] And I would like to ask my ANO colleagues if they would think about it and not allow us to discuss this package in one whole. It really is a non-controversial point and we would like to dismantle the fire department, both the Fire Rescue Corps and the volunteer firefighters. You have the removal of the administration in your programming statement, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Just to be clear. The invitation contained only two points - cursarbeit and written interpelation. All the others are newly included regardless of whether it is a proposal from the Gremium or individual parliamentary proposals. Next is Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me propose that two points be added to the agenda for today's meeting for those points that have already been proposed here. Given the situation with coronavirus in the Czech Republic today, we all see how small establishments, hoteliers suffer, those who rent small cottages, cottages, and are burdened with, among other things, copyrights that must be paid outside the home, and this is true in restaurants, hotels and so on. The government here, of course, has a full mouth of helping them, but I think it is this amendment of the copyright law that we submitted about two years ago that is House Press No. 402 that would currently solve the burden of entrepreneurs with small services, whether they are barbers, hairdressers, car servicers, pedicures, manicurists, plus the accommodation capacities, whether they are Prague hotels or outside Prague. It has basically one single impact, namely that, in fact, for the operation of radio and television broadcasting in accordance with § 18 para. 3 does not consider making the work available to patients of health services or making the work available to premises which are not operated for the purpose of making it available to radio and television broadcasting. Everyone here probably feels that if someone wants to stay in a hotel, they're staying there because they want to stay there, and not that they want to consume some kind of TV artwork, for example, from ČT1. The same is true in other establishments. So I ask for the inclusion of this point, it is the House Press 402, for the others that have already been proposed here. And then I would also propose the inclusion of the House's press 591/0. This House press contains the so-called amendment to the Criminal Code, and it is called "my house, my castle." In fact, it strengthens the Institute of Self-Defense in its own home, when anyone enters an obstacle to alien dwellings by using violence or threats of imminent violence, or if it overcomes an obstacle intended to prevent entry, where such action may cause legitimate concern to the defender about life or health or other persons present. It is, therefore, that whoever is attacked at home in his space and does not know what the attacker actually intends so that he can defend himself with the maximum possible effective force. So I hope that political support here will include these two House prints as other points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u29	I'm sorry, repositioning points, and in the course of the meeting, which position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u30	For the points that were designed here. It is therefore the House's 402 press first after them and then 591 as follows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u31	So, Mrs Richterová, on the agenda. That's the last application for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to put two things on the table for this House's immediate discussion. And that is, for the pirate club, the last time we suggested we discuss the infirmary, so that the contractors and the tradesmen, the people who pay their sickness insurance, would have a chance to go to the infirmary at all. So we support the point put forward by President Chvojka, the House press on sickness insurance, and we propose inclusion if Mr Chvojka's proposal had not been passed, as the second-to-last point of this meeting, so that it would also be treated for businessmen and brokers. And the other thing. We are submitting a proposal on the inclusion of the House press 464, because the pirát have proposed an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, its valorisation since 2018. We proposed this in 2018. And the House press includes not only the valorisation, the increase in the discount, but also new tax revenues for the state. It is a solution to a problem that concerns both people and their households and the overall tax solution. This point, House Press 464, is the last item of this meeting to be included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister of Finance would like to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u34	Thank you. Just for a very short time. To Prime Minister Michálek. The government gave a neutral opinion on the proposal to freeze the salaries of constitutional officials. We support this, we want to freeze the salaries of constitutional officials from 2021. We gave neutral for the only reason it didn't work out in 2022. And if we don't get to 2022, there's gonna be a jump of 15 to 20 percent increase in the salaries of constitutional officials. So we've been discussing this with the government this week, and I believe that your proposal will probably be the fastest medium to discuss it, but there has to be a 2042 solution to this because as Finance Secretary - and I believe that none of you wants your salaries to rise by 15 to 20 percent in 2022 when the average wage in the national economy is going to grow by 0.8% between 2020 and 2022, so de facto wages will be frozen, so we certainly don't want this. So the Ministry of Finance would like to build on the average wage in the national economy for 2022, but we have agreed that we will discuss this in coalition on Friday. So one to explain that we support the idea, and we definitely want it. It's a billion, we'll give it to social services, I'm sure you'll like that. And the second thing - Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Yes, absolutely, let's talk about cursarbeit across the Chamber of Deputies. That's the only and right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. I'm asking if there's anyone else on the agenda. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková reporting from the scene.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u36	Hello, Mr President, Madame Members. I'm just more of a technical remark, I don't know if Mrs Richterová and I have an understanding. The proposal proposed by the President of the Social Democracy Club Chvojka, House Press 695 on sickness insurance, concerns a long-term infirmary. There is indeed a reduction in the hospitalization time in very severely ill people, or the cancellation of hospitalization conditions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u37	Madame, are you proposing a new point? We're discussing the agenda for the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u38	No. I just technically wanted to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u39	I'm sorry, it's not possible to perform at this stage without a new proposal. [[Okay, thank you.]] Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is suggesting anything new on the agenda. I don't see anyone. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will deal with the individual proposals, as has been said here gradually. First, we will vote on the proposal of the Gremium, which is very simple. This is the inclusion of the discussion of the time schedule of the State budget for 2021. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the grémia proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 98, for 96, against no one. The motion was accepted. We put and put first with one vote. It's a glamorous proposal, no one's objecting. For the others, I will proceed by including a new point first and then voting on its firm inclusion. So first, President Jurečka proposes the inclusion of a new point - Information about the situation with COVID in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote on who's in favour of a new item. [[Objection from the diaper.]] One more time... It's working now. Please. Who's against a new point? Voting number 3, registered 97, for 36, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, President Jurečka proposes to include press 922, Senate proposal, it is 500 - am I correct? 922 proposed by the President, is that something else? [[Clearing off the microphone.]] 922 hasn't been approved yet. So first, we're assigning a new printing point of 959, a Senate proposal. Initiating vote. Who is for the inclusion of a new point - 959 Senate proposal, 500 crowns for the regions. Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered 96, for 44, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will not vote on a firm classification. President Faltýnek proposes to include print 922 as the third item, the draft of the Ministry of Finance on income tax, so-called. flat-rate tax. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number five, 97, for 92, against no one. A new point has been placed. And now his inclusion as the third point of today's negotiations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 6, registered 97, for 91, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now we have prints of 669 and 92 - the implementation of the European directive and the parliamentary proposal on arms management, in the order that I have read it. First of all, the inclusion of new points. [[Objection from the diaper.]] There's a proposal for individual... First of all, press 669, which is the parliamentary proposal on the handling of arms, the inclusion of a new item. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered 98, for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[11.20 hours]] So now a firm classification of this point today at 14.30 hours. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 8. There are 98 Members registered, for 83, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now press 92, the implementation of the European Weapons Directive, the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number nine. Registered 97, for 71, against 10. The motion was accepted. So now a firm classification of this point as the second afternoon point after printing 669. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 10. Registered 98, for 76, against 9. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, Mr.Faltýnek proposed to include a new point, press 800, on Military Intelligence, first reading. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda. Who's against it? Voting number 11. There are 98 Members registered, for 65, against 11. The motion was accepted. Now his firm classification as the fourth point of today's negotiations. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12. Registered 98, for 93, versus 10. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal to include a new point, press 986, an amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, first reading, so-called. a protected account. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? Voting number 13. Registered 98, for 83, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Now we'll vote on the order. It was said here to be the fifth point, then there was an alternative proposal, I don't know... First of all, we will vote on the solid inclusion as the fifth point, and then we will vote on Mr Ondráček's proposal in his... [[Question Mr. Chvojka from the diaper.]] Protected account, as the fifth point, firmly place today. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 14. Registered 98, 84, no one. The motion was accepted. Now we come to the block of proposals from Vice-President Okamura. First he proposed the inclusion of a new point, press 982, the freeze of politicians' salaries. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? Voting number 15. Registered 97, for 30, versus 2. The motion was not accepted. In addition, Vice-President Okamura proposes to include a new item, print 836, change in income tax, increase in discounts on the taxpayer. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? Voting number 16. Registered 98, for 44, against no one. The motion was not accepted. There was also a proposal for a new point in this meeting, print 337, by the ceiling of the RPSN. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17. Registered 97, 30, no one. The motion was not accepted. President Michálek's motion. For the item protected account, he wants to include the Pirate Party's proposal for freezing the salaries of constitutional officials first. [[Voice from the diaper: Press number?]] Print number 978, new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 18. It's registered 98, 83 against no one. The motion was accepted. Now there's a proposal for his solid inclusion for the fifth, protected account already accepted, so that would be point number six. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 19. Registered 98, for 81, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Now there are Mr Stanjura's proposals. First, to be included on the agenda of the press meeting 947, the extension of the Antivirus. Isn't that right? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for this point. Who's against it? Voting number 20. Registered 98, for 45, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there was a proposal for printing 948, forgiveness of advances. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda for this meeting. Who's against it? Voting number 21. Registered 98, for 44, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Now, President Chvojka's proposal that we put the press 695 on the agenda of this meeting, concerning the long-term infirmary. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 22. There are 98 Members registered, for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Ondráček proposes to include a new item, press 794, concerning the Fire Rescue Corps, second reading. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda. Who's against it? Voting number 23. Registered 97, for 42, no one. The motion was not accepted. [[11.30 hours]] Mr Koten proposes the inclusion of a new point, press 402, the remission of fees. Initiating vote. Who's in? To be more precise, I'd say copyright charges. Who's against it? In vote number 24, entered 98, for 23, against 5. The motion was not accepted. Mr Koten also proposes to include the press 591, an amendment to the Criminal Code, as a new item on the agenda of this meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 25 entered 98, for 12, against 5. The motion was not accepted. And the last one is Mrs Richterová's proposal that we put the press 464 on the agenda for the increase of the taxpayer's discount. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. In vote number 26 is 98, for 44, against 1. The motion was not accepted. This has dealt with all the proposals that have been made, and we will vote on the agenda for this meeting as a whole. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 27 vote is 98, for 71, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that we have approved the agenda for this meeting, and we will proceed according to... Thank you. I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-000-000.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will now proceed to discussing this point.
