ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u1	13. Government proposal of the Act on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic on tenants of premises used to satisfy housing needs, on the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and in connection with the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in the house with apartments /house printing 815/ - shortened negotiations We should first decide on this press pursuant to § 99 para. 5 and we should assess whether the conditions for the discussion of that proposal are in the shortened negotiations. I am opening up a debate on this, and I am asking if anyone is interested in making a short speech on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic on tenants of housing needs, on the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and in connection with the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in the house with apartments, House printing 815, in a short hearing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of a shortcut. Who's against it? In the vote number 144 entered 98, for 70, against 2. The motion was adopted, so the resolution was approved. I open item number 13 and ask the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. She's already had one debate about commercial rents. We have prepared an adjustment that should actually reduce the economic impact of the epidemic on apartment tenants and other premises serving housing needs. In view of the considerable publicity of the proposed measures, I should like to comment in particular on the proposed adjustment in the area of rentals of flats. In the context of ongoing, sometimes highly passionate discussions, the opinions prevail that it is allowed and legalizes non-payment of rent. However, this is not the case, and the MMR has never pursued such an intention, as we are aware of the protection of ownership. Our efforts are focused on vulnerable tenants when other measures fail, such as situations where security cannot be used. Of course, many landlords want one to three rents in advance from tenants. At the same time, there won't be enough room to handle, for example, social benefits. It should be noted that social benefits, in fact, the decisive period is back in the quarter, which means those applicants will be able to apply for the benefit first in June - April, May, June, because of the revenue gap. That means this month at first. Of course, it is also impossible to rule out the efforts of some landlords to take advantage of the crisis situation. On the other hand, I don't even want to speak to a voice about this, and I think it will be absolutely minimal, because many very decent landlords have written to me that they are glad that it doesn't affect services, because of course that would be a problem, however, they are aware of the difficult situation that is, and with their tenants, because it is really the proper citizens who have been in some financial trouble because of the crisis measures, so they are already negotiating payment schedules with them today. It was our attempt to minimize the effects on the landlords. For this reason, the tenant was never exempted from the obligation to pay payments for housing services and also interest on late payments and rent payments. At the same time, certain obligations are imposed by law on the landlord to prove that he has been in these difficult situations. And here, let me also answer Mrs Pekarová's question to Adamová, how she will document it. We will issue a methodological instruction on this, that is to say, confirmation of loss of employment from the employment office, or confirmation that quarantine, infirmary, etc. has been ordered. We will have it quite precisely given both on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and, in particular, by the methodical instruction of the Labour Office. Let me just mention that we were very much debating this. I will support the amendment, which shortens the deadlines, because I think that once the deadline for asking for benefits is over, there is no reason to stretch out that deadline. This means, from the original date, from 30 September 2020, we will shorten it to 31 July, so that the space is there, and the withdrawal period from the original 31 May to 31 May. 12. 2020 which is in the amendment of Professor Válková, which I will support. Another part of this material concerns loans from the State Housing Development Fund. The state housing development fund and the government's current regulation did not actually predict that there might actually be a pandemic crisis. Therefore, the proposal will allow the State Fund to comply with the credit beneficiaries who have entered into financial difficulties. Therefore, the SFRB is able to evaluate this and, in fact, legitimate requests and interrupt the repayment of principal and interest until 30 November 2020. The state housing development fund currently has almost 20,000 clients, credit recipients. [[19.40 hours]] Another issue of this law is the measure relating to the Services Act, Act No. 67/2013 Sb., which consists in extending the time limits for the delivery of billing and the execution of financial settlement of the costs of performance associated with the use of flats and non-residential spaces in the house with apartments under the Services Act. The reason for this proposal are the requirements of the providers, the community of owners of units, housing cooperatives and their suppliers, who fear that due to the failure of the workforce, they will not be able to deliver the necessary documents in time for sending out the bill of services, and this is very sanctioned in the Services Act, and even, of course, the Supreme Court case-law, which shows that the facts that are sanctioned include that the settlement of advances on services is not delivered on time. For this reason, of course, this is an extension of the deadline. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask for support so that the most vulnerable groups of the population can be protected by this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u3	Thank you. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 815/1. I will ask the rapporteur, Ivan Bartoš, to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u4	The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development addressed this proposal at its 35th meeting on 6 April 2020. Several amendments have been tabled to the committee. However, as it happens, none of them have been accepted. Therefore, the committee has decided and proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold both a general and a detailed debate on the bill, on all parts of the bill. It proposes that we discuss this press in the House within 24 hours of 8 April 2020 and recommends that the House agree with the Government's proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the impact of SARS-CoV-2's pandemic on tenants of the premises used to satisfy the housing needs, on the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and on the provision of performance related to the use of the apartment and non-residential premises in the house with apartments, House printing 815, without comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u5	Thank you. We will therefore now decide whether to hold a general debate in accordance with the resolution of the committee responsible. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. This will give us some room so that the maximum number of Members can take part in the vote. We will therefore vote on the general debate at this time. I may have you... to be enough voter. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the general debate. Voting 145, registered 96, for 45, against no one. But... Please, Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just sorry. I voted in favour, but I'm late for high school. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u7	We will immediately vote on this objection here. But I'm gonna call in my colleagues from the lobby again, and I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna sign you all in again. [[Call off the microphone.]] On the other hand, who voted in favour of the proposal. So, for the newly-arrived Members of the foyer, I shall repeat that there is an objection from Mr Ferjenčík against the previous vote, since the result at the stage does not correspond to the expression of his will... [[There's a happy atmosphere in the hall. It's all a first time. - Fun.]] So please, I'm... I'm still short seven votes, so it looks promising... Now we're out of one. Now we're down to two, three... I'm interrupting the meeting for five minutes. And we'll continue in five minutes. I will ask everyone to come in so that we can vote on Mr Ferjenčík's objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u8	So it's 19.50, we'll continue the adjourned negotiations. First, the vote will decide on Mr Ferjenčík's objection. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 146, registered 79, for 77, against no one. we will repeat the vote on whether there is a general debate on this point. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 147, logged in 78, for 76, against no one. It was therefore decided to hold a general debate. Mr Kubíček applied before the interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, please limit the time for Members to speak in general and detailed debate once, after five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u10	Yes. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of limiting speaking time. Who's against it? Voting 148, registered 80, for 59, versus 10. The motion was accepted. There. I am opening a general debate. Mr Feri is the first member of the general debate to be entered at the moment, but... He's here, he made it. we're not putting it at the end. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u11	Thank you for your extraordinary patience, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, the debate will be very similar to that of business rents, because these are actually very similar institutes, which create very similar problems in fact. I'd compare it to a situation where you're dealing with some complicated problem with your friends, and you decide to choose who solves the problem with the game, how you take the straws, and who pulls the shortest, so the problem will have to be solved. And unfortunately, there are only two tenants and landlords in this problem. And that's not how it should be after our trial. If anyone should be pulling, they should be pulling. The state should also play a major role in resolving the problem, which unfortunately is not in this proposal. And I have already announced in advance that our parliamentary club will not support this proposal for this reason. It's nice to pretend that the state in some way decides and stands wisely in the heavens and decides about those private relationships, but that's what the landlord's burden is. So we will not support this proposal, but we will try to make it not good, unfortunately it is not in our power, we are not in the heavens, but we will at least try to improve it. We will make amendments, and we have tabled, and I will apply to them gradually in the context of a detailed debate, which at least guarantees state aid, which will say that the state will be there for the landlords and, if necessary, stand up for them and will recover any damage. I also propose another amendment that shortens the protection period and a proposal that addresses the question of the billing. In our view, this proposal is also sewn on its knees because it creates problems that may not have been fully intended. One in particular of many. Imagine, for example, real estate, it doesn't have to be any big, owned by some big developer, it could be someone who just decides to finance abroad, to finance foreign capital, and that person - and I've already asked about it on the committee - was told that it wasn't said - the man suddenly loses the money he paid the payments from. In the case of, say, Czech capital, it would be dealt with by other legislation, another legislation that we have approved by delaying the instalments. But in the case of foreign capital - unsolved. This guy's getting into secondary insolvency. That's one particular example. Again, there is a question, for example. VAT. And I am afraid, and I had this impression at this meeting on more proposals that this regulation will be heading to the Constitutional Court very soon. This is a fate that awaits a large number of proposals that... almost actually all the laws that we approve here. But here on this proposal, I'm afraid there's going to be a constitutional review sooner than we think. That's tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of cases that could happen. And unfortunately, and that's another consequence that I'm going to mention negative, so instead of this proposal dealing with something, and instead of trying to come up with a friendly solution, where the state is actually pulling the straw, and if the state, let's say, is grand, it automatically pulls the largest straw and takes the burden for those who can't, they don't have what it takes to pay the rent, so the state stands up for them. So instead, he throws it at the landlord, safely blocking any possible deal between the landlord and the tenant. Let's not pretend people can't make a deal. Let's not pretend that all the landlords are the bad capitalists who are simply trying to trample the rights of the tenants and not meet them at all. Many were able to make a deal. Many agreed on a payment schedule. There are often many cases where rent has been reduced and so on, when even the landlord forgave the rent. But if we put the landlords, the tenants who would often be able to agree normally, this obstacle when we create this injustice, I'm afraid it will lead to some kind of social reconciliation. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary club will not support this proposal. We are aware that the government was in a very difficult situation when the Ministry of Regional Development had to come up with something, it had to submit something, but it did it from the table. [[Attention on time.]] Ideas are good, ideas are from the table. This one's from the table. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u12	Thank you. The next one will be Mrs Šafránková in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly inform you of the amendment to the SPD, which we are giving to the Government's draft, and I propose that the landlord of the housing property, if it is a legal person, be entitled to exclude from the basis of his rent income tax, which has become applicable at a certain time, i.e. in this case in calendar year 2020, due but not actually paid by the tenant at their due date. We propose to include these claims in the corporate tax base only for the calendar year in which their real payment takes place. Furthermore, we propose that all landlords of these properties, who are also VAT payers, should be entitled to exclude taxable transactions from unpaid rent from their value added tax liability for a period of time in which neither the tenant nor the tenant pays them that tax. This value added tax would be included in the taxable transactions only during the period when the payment is actually received. [[20.00 hours]] The main purpose of our proposal is to avoid a situation where, as a result of delaying rent payments by tenants in the so-called. the relevant period of the landlords will be in a situation where they will be obliged to pay income tax and value added tax on the one hand from these invoiced payments, while on the other hand they will not be actually paid the rent. As a result, their economic situation and the very existence, including the existence of their firms and potential employees, may be threatened. At the same time, it can also be assumed that certain, perhaps small, quantities of these rent claims will not ultimately be paid to landlords at all due to the critical income situation of some tenants. The owner of the property will thus tax these rents, but it will not actually receive them, which is another significant intervention in its management. If it does not have sufficient financial reserves, it may have significant existential problems and may, for example, be in a secondary insolvency. Our amendment would therefore allow the lessor to postpone the taxation of unpaid rent and the levy of value added tax until its recovery and real remuneration. Legal assistance to one group of persons affected by crisis measures shall not constitute damage or threat to another group of persons. We must not shift the burden of insolvency from tenants to landlords. We must not create new inequalities and injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u14	Thank you. Mr Kupka, to whom I hereby give the floor, is also entered in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u15	Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I think we are all trying honestly to find a way in which the Czech State could help people in the difficult situation in which they found themselves. But this bill isn't actually issued this way at all. Respectfully, he's trying to do something, but he just wants to point out a group that's gonna get away with the problem. There is no contribution, no specific assistance in this case. Moreover, it is a law that is unconstitutional on several points. It violates the fundamental charter of rights and freedoms, it affects ownership, and in this case it is a law that simply does not support well and which we will at least try to adapt so as to avoid possible other related problems that will arise, as has been said here. What we are blaming about is that while in other cases the state is trying to find some balance, divide the impacts between the individual entities, and naturally it should attribute the largest share to itself - we can compare how other states deal with this situation, how generous their help is addressed as far as possible to the broadest range of people affected by the Corona crisis, so that they do not fall into other problems and other complications, so that they do not have to face the problem of paying rent at all - but here we are embarking on a significantly more complex path, which will, of course, be more administratively demanding and, most importantly, in this case, we are transferring black Petr, all responsibility to landlords, or owners. And here I am convinced that the state is embezzling from the role it has been trying to help and trying to find some reasonable part of responsibility for itself, or as much responsibility as possible for itself. Moreover, the law is contrary to all good practice that applies in municipalities and cities, because municipalities and cities are, of course, also important landlords, owners of flats. We know that where, for example, there is a current problem with people, inability to pay, so where they manage well, together with the tenant, they follow the options, prepare payment schedules, and try to shorten the time when debt needs to be dealt with, while in this case the horizon is moving away and the law is really threatening to prepare a whole series of serious problems against its probably original intention and open up more debt traps to people. I want to warn you about that, because this isn't just about what should be legally right, but really there is a danger that what the communities have been through and what they've been through is all of a sudden going to be a complete waste of time. I warn against creating debt traps, so far away from that decisive term of protection period. However, because we want to offer at least a better solution as far as possible, we have prepared a total of nine amendments. The one trying to look at the whole problem from a completely different point of view and instead of delaying rent payments, he is focusing his attention on helping the state. To help those who find themselves in a critical situation, where the problem really arises and all the other aids will not be available. Specific important help, where the State does not throw responsibility at anyone else, but understands it itself, and is understood to the extent necessary. Another amendment addresses the guarantees, we have even proposed two amendments in this direction, so that at the end in the case of non-recoverable claims it is a state that will be able to save the important group of landlords, who may not necessarily be large entities, but may be people for whom rental income is perhaps the most important income of life that ensures that they can function well. And then it's a whole series of partial amendments that regulate the parameters of the law. We offer this job to improve the proposal, and if we are also dealing with the position of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, so it is not just us as an opposition that would draw attention to the serious problems of this legislation, but also to other organisations, we are convinced that they deserve -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u16	Ambassador, I must warn you that the five-minute deadline has passed. You can, of course, justify this in the detailed debate you have entered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u17	I'll just finish the sentence. I ask very much that, even though these are opposition proposals, you accept them as a helping hand, not as something that needs to be defined against at all costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u18	Thank you. Have a good evening again. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Traditionally, my dear colleagues, there are few of us here, but as far as my amendment is concerned, as the Minister has already announced, it is up to us to reach out to those who do not spare criticism, just for the absolutely necessary time, so that the time that is being reduced as far as the time is concerned, from 30 September 2020 to 31 July 2020. And that period of protection from 31. - this is a major change - May 2021, until 31 December 2020. Then the other two changes more or less clarify and remove any doubts as to what all claims are, so the claims are specified by specifying them with the words "rental'. Finally, the fourth amendment to my amendment repeals paragraph 3, paragraph 5, precisely in view of the fact that there might be some interpretational doubts, and she is the wording, the wording in the original proposal, actually redundant. There. I would just use the remaining time, because my amendments are really modest, they do not go into the concept, substance and system of the proposed law, unlike those we have just heard from my colleagues and colleagues. In order to stress that there is a big difference between what we discussed a moment ago, or the draft law of the House of Press 816, compared to this House of Press 815, which is not only legislatively much more sophisticated, but also I think that it meets the parameters when we look at it, from a constitutionally conformal point of view, which are placed on standards regardless of whether they are adopted in an emergency state or not. So, in this case, those doubts would not, in my opinion, be the subject of constitutional law if we considered it, acceptance, non-acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u20	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Now, Kateřina Valachová, Leo Luzar will be prepared as the next party to the debate. Madame, please, you have the floor. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u21	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to support the changes that are proposed with one single objective. The aim is to protect the tenants at this time, when a large number of workers have a loss of income, from losing their housing, many of them irreversibly about housing. To be honest, we are based on an unpleasant experience of what happened in 2009, 2010, 2011, and we want to prevent people from losing their housing as a result of a fall in income that they could not influence or cause. I also support the adjustments, as my colleague, Professor Válková, spoke about them and, as Mrs Klára Dostálová, the Minister for Regional Development has also announced them. When it comes to shortening the extraordinary period, this means that we protect the possible incomplete payment of rent - I only note the rent, it does not concern energy and service payments - until 31. 7. It is really a necessary time to protect tenants from loss of housing during this extraordinary time, and the only thing we are introducing is a ban on rental statements. I would also like to remind you as a lawyer that, in general, you also have to not pay for three months in order to be threatened under private law by statements from the rental of an apartment. Even here everyone can see that our goal, let's say, is not to aim for honest landlords, honest homeowners, but rather for those who unfortunately - and even those who are, because this is how many tenants turn to us, a number of individuals or families - who, unfortunately, although we are all facing a corona crisis, are now really approaching very nasty practices and, after some hesitation of the tenant as a result of the loss of work, are seeking the testimony or removal of such tenant from the apartment. So we want to stop it. I am also glad that we have agreed that, by the end of the year at the latest, payments this late will be settled. I also think that this shortening will certainly contribute to making it clear to everyone that we want to protect for the necessary time what I believe is not an ordinary farmhouse, and that is therefore housing and the right to housing. As far as, let's say, the general state as it is at the moment, as I see it and as many citizens turn to me, on the one hand, there are a number of great, honest landlords, homeowners who are trying to reach out to the tenant themselves on how to arrange their rental relationship, and I believe that there are, without a doubt, most of them, but there are also those - as I say, people with these concerns are turning to me - who are trying to use their position even at this moment, even if it is astonishing, or even abuse it. As to what will happen if the tenant does not pay any part of the rent, how will he then deal with such debt in quotation marks. Also, someone is afraid that then such a tenant will end up in some debt trap, a spiral, there will be no way to solve it. So here I would like to inform you that, of course, we discussed this carefully with the Minister for Regional Development and with the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, and that is why the period was set until 31. 7. so that we can be sure that then, for those who cannot continue to repay, there will be a helping hand through our social assistance system, let it be a housing allowance, let it be a housing supplement, let it be extraordinary immediate assistance. For the landlords and the peace of mind, I still want to remind them that where long-term - or risk - they are dealing with the fact that the tenants will not replace the entire rent, and let's say there are some other social problems, so I just want to remind you that in the context of social assistance we have an institute of special recipient, we have a commandment on the cost of reimbursement of services. And these are all the institutes that should prevent this. Finally, I want to assure both tenants and landlords that we really want to bring peace to ensuring the right to housing, even if we are facing a corona crisis, and I believe that we will succeed together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u22	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Leo Luzar is now ready to speak, Věra Kovářová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[The rapporteur is reporting on the floor.]] In front of Mrs. Věra Kovářová. React? But I've already given my word to Mr. Luzar. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying that I personally consider the right to live as a fundamental human right, and I consider any threat to me to this fundamental human right to be a very warning. We are witnessing various personal tragic stories today and daily involving tenants in relation to the landlord. These matters are dealt with by the court, these matters are dealt with by the police, often after many years we will get justice and we will come to a solution. But we are in an exceptional situation that is triggered by things of higher power. This exceptional situation throws many people into existential problems, income existential problems, where they have to deal with how they come out with money every month. The blackout may really be only 20 percent, but even 20 percent is so significant that they won't be able to pay for all the cargo associated with housing. It is automatically assumed here that landlords will operate this, or perceive it as a mass action. Personally, I think that these will be individual cases, because most people approach housing very responsibly and are aware of the risks associated with the fact that they might end up living. But what I think from my point of view is troubled, as I assume most of you are here, is that we get emails from people who assume that every tenant is a crook. We're getting heartbreaking emails about how they've saved their entire lives to retire... They bought five investment apartments for retirement and automatically calculate that they would have a permanent income from the five apartments. And now they're blaming the government for all those five apartments being hit here by not getting the money. Again, I ask, is investment an obligation to profit, isn't it a risk? On the other hand, aren't these revenues, or aren't they supposed to be serving some kind of reserve that these people would create? Because the government says nothing but that it asks, in a way it doesn't allow those landlords to quit in a limited period of time associated with this solution to the coronavirus problem. But I came out here for one simple reason, because the proposal - and I am glad that it has been said from the previous speakers that it will be modified - is a small problem for me. There's a weak side, they're tenants, and there's a strong side, and that's the landlord. It usually is, and it's rarely in the opposite plane. I can't imagine how the weak side, the tenant, is showing the landlord, who doesn't always have to be serious, all the background so that they can get together. Therefore, I would very much like to see a third, official person enter into this problem, if there is a problem, in my proposal, the Labour Office, which should be the one, I hope, only an arbiter to assess whether the arguments handed over by the tenant correspond to how this law is built. Therefore, I also say in my proposal that those guidelines, which, or the form and guidelines of what the tenant should be supporting, should provide for an implementing regulation or implementing directive of the Ministry of Regional Development. In order to avoid any problems in the future when the landlord says no, no, no, that's not enough, I don't believe you, I don't consider this affidavit important, and I know that... And they're gonna start a fight and a lawsuit where the tenant is always weaker. We should prevent this, and that is why I have prepared an amendment to which I will then sign up in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u24	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Now, rapporteur Ivan Bartoš, then Mrs Věra Kovářová. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u25	Good evening. I'd take the liberty of exercising priority rights. I cannot be unresponsive to Mrs Valachová through Mr President, who, in a certain way, has been moved here to help the most unnecessary. And politics, as I see it - that is why sometimes there is a minister sitting here who is concerned with his proposal - is the government's agreement on a balanced system. And when we were discussing self-employed people yesterday, and when we were discussing, for example, the entitlement to infirmary in the last meeting of the House, it made the whole group fall out of it. And yesterday, after discussing with the ČSSD that at least in the one-off bonus - 15,000 we proposed - we should not forget about the contractors, the people working on the DPP or the DPC, who were not even remembered with the infirmary, so, even after this agreement, that they should be included in it, these groups were again cropped. So the negotiators went out of the post, the self-employed who were on a sideline, which had to do with any other DPP, DPČ or part-time contract, so they also went out of the post. So we've created this group of people here who are potentially not going to have the rent because they just don't have the money. They don't have them from the infirmary, they don't have them at the moment. These are the groups that I think were rightly appointed here by Mrs Valachová through Mr President as the most at risk, and they were abandoned by the government yesterday. And today we're saying that they're the ones who care most about us. So I do not think - one more thing I wanted to add to this is that there are some groups, and it almost sounded that way from Mr Luzar, some of them as unethical evil landlords. A lot of people got an apartment, and then they took a mortgage to the other apartment, and they just live in one, and the other rents out, and it's not some Uberrentier who just has... It's also not wrong that someone has an apartment building. Please, let's not paint this place like this. But if a person was self-employed and lost the source of income thanks to government measures and at the same time rented some mortgage apartment, then at that point he doesn't have the rent, and he doesn't have the income to his owner, he doesn't have the income to pay for the mortgage that he's paying in the apartment where he owns the one tenant, so he's still entering a big contract of memorandum through Secretary of Finance Schillerová to negotiate with the bank the deferrals of the instalments while the penalty runs for him. We're trying to figure out where there's some kind of deficit that came from just the fact that the state can't help people as quickly as possible across the board and without conditions, so we're actually going to make these groups ourselves, because if they had the money, they're going to pay the rent. What they'd pay first is rent. The second thing - they'll pay for food, maybe the energy will wait. Just to always look at it, it's not the individual laws that we're just discussing, and now finance is being made, now MPSV is being made, and now MMR is being made, but it's always working together. Even the problem of affordable housing is always the cooperation of MMR, MPSV. And I don't think it works here. And even the resetting of the system, the sudden aid in some situation with the MPSV, should change significantly. Not only digitalize it, how, luckily, yesterday, it managed to shift it a little bit, but even the cycle of the payment or the method of admitting it, there is just enough time to move small terms, like quartal ones, into some more serious cycle specific to the coronation crisis, and we don't have to talk about how long we're gonna be giving the poaching until it's paid. We just don't find other groups of people because we didn't help the needy in the first place. And maybe we'll make a whole series of them with this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u26	So it was the rapporteur with the speech not the rapporteur. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Marian Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention a view that may not be so much discussed here, but the law will have a negative impact on both the tenants and the landlords. The application makes it impossible to give a statement on the grounds of non-payment of the rent at the relevant time. And by law, it simply does not appear well that the law would assess the term of maturity. Therefore, if the tenant is late at the relevant time, the outstanding amount will increase by interest on the late payment until the full payment of the debt. There is nothing to prevent the landlord from subsequently seeking payment of the rent in court. In addition to the interest on late payment, the debtor's rent may increase by covering the costs of the judicial and, where appropriate, execution proceedings, which would be completely liquidation for most tenants. The tenant would thus, paradoxically, be even worse off than the intended protection given by this proposal. And now let me mention some negative effects on the landlords. A small part of landlords can also get into economic problems. This is what Mr Bartoš here was talking about. In many cases, the apartment is burdened with a mortgage that is currently being paid off from the rent. And if, as a result of these extraordinary measures, the owner's own income goes out of business, it also gets into an unsolvable situation, as it can happen with the tenant. He won't be able to repay the loan himself. And it can be assumed that prices may fall. He'll be forced to sell the apartment, and that's under the price. And as we know from the previous crisis, it is not excluded that it will not cover the entire outstanding portion of the loan from the purchase price. It can therefore be concluded that the consequences of the law can thus be exactly opposite to those envisaged and can bring problems to tenants and landlords, as well as to enforcement problems. For this reason, I have prepared an amendment which I will justify in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u28	Thank you, Madame. And now, MP Marian Jurečka, Olga Richterová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u29	Thank you. Good evening or evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. I have to say that actually, if the core of the problem were to be addressed here at the beginning, that is, if there was really a rapid massive support for companies, businessmen, people who are on the DPP, DPČ, about the Eserócs, more or less cross-cuttingly what was proposed here in the framework of the amendments, then the vast majority of people could have some certainty about their income from employment and we would not have to address here that there is a legitimate concern of people in this situation as they pay their rents. By decision of this House, hundreds of thousands of these people, whether they were DPP, DPČ and those who have a subsidiary activity, were sentenced to significantly decrease their income and to have a problem paying their costs. The next step, if this had not succeeded, in my view, there should be a significant adjustment to the housing allowance in this chain, so that the person who loses his job could ask for this housing allowance very quickly and in order to be able to pay his commitments properly, the tenant did not have to feel he was under stress, he does not know where to take the money, he does not know how to deal with the landlord and so on. And now here comes this proposal, which doesn't actually solve the cause, but it tries very complicatedly to solve the consequences of the fact that things had been neglected in the chain before. I have to say that I have a problem with this KDU-ČSL solution because, as I pointed out, steps could be found here that would be far more effective. Also, we don't tell the kid we have at home in the morning when he needs money to pay for something at school, make sure he and the school agree to pay for it in three quarters of a year, a year, but we're trying to get the money to pay for it. However, since we are already in this situation, when the government has decided to go through this model, I must say that there is not quite one thing resolved here, and that is the tenant's relationship with the landlord after this legislative regulation ends on 31 May 2021. Therefore, I would like to put here an amendment based on the principle of the Civil Code, which also protects tenants in a certain way. Let me read the exact reasoning here. [[20.30 hours]] The Government's proposal provides that the landlord cannot terminate the lease agreement until 31 May 2021 on the ground that the tenant has incurred a lease debt for the duration of the emergency measures. However, at the end of the protection period, the landlord may terminate the contract without notice if the tenant has not paid the entire debt. This contrasts with the existing protection of tenants in the Civil Code. According to him, the landlord can terminate the lease without notice only if the tenant owes him rent and energy in three months. If he owes him less, he may terminate his rent at three months' notice. A similar amendment is also adopted for the need for debts for rent incurred during the period of emergency measures. It seems logical to bring these things into line with the Civil Code. However, I would like to appeal that the government should really consider reconsidering the parameters of the housing allowance so that, in the context of social policy, the state can solve the problem at the beginning, not transfer it between tenants and landlords, it does not burden the landlords, because I have dozens of people who have real estate, have mortgage on it, invest in it, have tenants there and say: and how are we supposed to handle this in this situation now, how are we supposed to deal with it? Because it is also in contradiction with the fact that the government allows a moratorium on repayment of its loans, but for three or six months, and here this measure goes beyond this moratorium. He's getting real estate owners into trouble. So I would like to draw attention to these imperfections. I understand how this is meant. It's meant to be a good idea. But the performance isn't very good anymore. And I say again, it would be good to solve these things at the beginning of the problems where they arise. Thank you for your attention and, where appropriate, for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u30	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself for the absent president of Jan Chvojka's club. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u31	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will present an amendment which concerns an area not yet mentioned. First, I will say that it is very good that there is a loaded amendment which shortens the deadlines that will allow really only for the time necessary to settle, in particular, housing contributions. It is a pity that, for administrative reasons, because of the way the employment office is set, it is not possible to change the quarterly functioning of the housing contributions. I wish I could, but in this case, I don't see how our state can do it any faster. So with a heavy heart, I know it's gonna be really hard for a lot of landlords, but I still think because of the fact that the housing contributions are gonna be dealt with and that the rent will then be paid, so it makes sense to give this stop a status and allow the rent to be paid when this benefit is done. I'm just saying this with a heavy heart, but knowing that it's in the interests of society to stay on the streets without desperate people, with people in apartments. On the other hand, one thing contradicts all these intentions, namely that the government did not come up with at least a temporary restriction on such so-called free zones. It is indeed contradictory if the zones in which the so-called housing supplement could not be taken continue to work. And I have two amendments, one for temporary cancellation and the other for permanent cancellation, because we may not have to lie to each other, the situation of thousands and thousands of people in life is going to get worse, and thousands of thousands of people will fall into the material emergency in which the housing supplement is being used. In this situation, I don't understand why we should leave this possibility. We don't have proof that these zones deal with speculators of poverty. Unfortunately, the poverty business is blooming. Yes, since 2014, this is before these zones are introduced, and it is more because the country's economy has improved so rapidly, and also because other measures have been taken to limit the dose. So I just want to say, we have cities today, where the whole town is a so-called pay-free zone, except for the residential hotels, so that they can go to the residential hotels and go somewhere else. That doesn't make any sense. It is about a hundred municipalities, where it would not be possible to help people now, unlike other communities. It's, of course, something that a lot of mayors think they're giving them some kind of tool, only in conversations about whether the instrument works, they usually admit that it doesn't actually affect it, it doesn't seem like it does. That is why I would appeal to the House, which is not entirely made up of people who sometimes try to use something that doesn't actually work in that government, because it just gives the appearance of some action. I would like to appeal to consider at least the temporary suspension of the free-of-charge zones. Let me recap. We have tens of thousands of households before the crisis, 54,000 households in 2018 were in serious housing distress, and only 38,000 of them received housing payments. I mean, there's already been a lot of families without the support of this benefit, and it's going to increase. Let's consider whether, in the interest of our company's functioning, it makes sense now because of a sudden deep economic downturn, to limit this possibility. I am therefore in favour of Amendments 4740 and 4741.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u32	That was Mrs Olga Richterová. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, on behalf of the President of the ČSSD. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u33	I agree with the previous speakers that our main common goal is to keep people from losing their income at all. As for the people who were employed in the framework of the agreement on work and work activities, I would like to repeat here in plenary that two days ago, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, no doubt, also in response to the topics and warnings of colleagues from the coalition and opposition ranks, has declared that these people up to CZK 10,000 repeatedly every month will be able to request simplified emergency assistance at the employment office. As for the sum of over CZK 10,000, there has been a public promise that we will come up with a solution as soon as possible in the past days. And I myself witnessed yesterday's meeting and preliminary agreement by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour, that he would do so as soon as possible. So thank you for reminding me. They're connected containers, and I'm sure we'll fill it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u34	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Jan Bartošek, then colleague Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, what my colleague Valachová says through you is nice, but if the dose is not assigned, where it is clear, where it is certain that it will get into the hands of those who will receive the dose, virtually. The rent that pays the rent? Because if it's a dose of material immediate aid, then it doesn't matter that they pay the rent out of that benefit. It's just for the record. And what we're talking about here today is just who's gonna pay for it. When we dealt with the VAT issue at the previous point, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will pay because they will be required by the State to pay VAT. And I agree that it is not possible for us to create a large number of people who lose their housing and become homeless. But figuring out that this government solution is to take on its shoulders property owners, that's not a fair solution. [[20.40 hours]] Among other things, the government is proposing to postpone payment of rent, but leaving interest on late payments. My amendment provides that, if the rent is deferred, these interest on late payment should not be paid. I am aware that we have had two-day negotiations, which are difficult in many respects, and very serious decisions are being made here. From the opposition's parties, I see efforts to soften the impact on property rights at least a little bit, and to balance the weight of those who bear what they bear on their shoulders, whether they are firms, banks, or, as I said before, a simple principle of non-payment of VAT. It must be said that the time is not good, people are restless because they learn that people who have been in agreement, whether they have an agreement to carry out a job or an agreement to carry out an activity, will not remember that those who own a property, it will pay from their own that entrepreneurs will pay VAT regardless of anything. And to this day, the question of who will replace entrepreneurs with losses from times of crisis and how it will be paid for is not actually resolved. For my part, we wanted to dull any action against the state by those amendments, unfortunately, a number of good amendments from the opposition are rejected. For me, this is a dilettant approach, because many of the proposals were good and solved the situation. And so I would like to make it clear here that every minister of this government, and especially the Prime Minister, will be responsible for the decision in the future, because I am convinced, and so as I see what is happening in society, companies will be judged. They will be sued for a relatively fundamental influence on their property rights. I believe that this is a serious crisis that we are experiencing, but especially in such a situation, we cannot take decent people on a staff. In this situation, the state should look for a solution and take responsibility. We are discussing a lot of laws here, and I am convinced that we have been able to do so in an accelerated procedure, or the government has been able to come up with a bill that addresses the issue of property owners, and not just tell them: you will not get anything for three months now. Here I want to say at the same time that there are decent tenants and there are decent landlords. And I want to thank you so much for that. I thank all who own property and come with an offer to reduce rent in this difficult time in half or even less. Thank you for this helpfulness, because that is precisely the kind of society that we need, which is capable of reaching out, taking into account, belonging to, and does not need the regulation of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u36	Thank you. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, and this is the last one entered into the general debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a question for the Minister. Please reply at least between the general and detailed debate on the interpretation of one provision. If I understand correctly, but I admit I didn't study it in detail, maybe my colleague Jurečka stumbled upon it, so I wonder what will happen if the tenant doesn't pay the August rent, provided we limit the measure by the end of July. That means if he doesn't pay August's rent, that means he's gonna get fired if the owner of the apartment wants to terminate it with the three-month withdrawal period, which means he's not gonna pay March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, that means eight months he can legally live in that apartment and he's not gonna pay any rent at all. If it's actually designed like this, it seems a little excessive to the homeowners. I would expect that if a combination of decisive and protective time is needed for people to be able to settle their housing contributions, and then to pay back properly, it seems to me that protecting them another three months after they no longer paid off as they were entering the ordinary regime is really a huge burden for the landlords. So I'm wondering if this is how it works, or if the August unpaid rent is really grounds for termination without a withdrawal period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u38	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Mr. Marian Jurečka will still use his priority right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u39	Thank you. I really have one big appeal. I understand that Secretary Maláčová is not here, but there are two cabinet ministers. Please, consider whether we really want to help tenants with this construction and whether it is effective. For yourself, for KDU-ČSL, I say that if you come up with an adjustment of legislative parameters for housing contributions, we are fully prepared to support it so that the instrument now really works quickly, efficiently, without unnecessary delay, without unnecessarily complex examination for those who lose their jobs or have already lost it. I remind you, in six days of April, we have a new 7,000 job applicants. So please, let's not create space here. I would not want to live in the skin of a tenant who will not be able to achieve a housing allowance or handle it difficultly and will be in a situation of debtor and will grow, even if he has this legislative protection. It's certainly not the lucky principle that's chosen here. So when you go into it, I still ask you again, and we are as opposed to it, and I think that the other opposition parties, in principle open, do this adjustment calmly in a state of legislative emergency very quickly to give these people a much more meaningful and simpler instrument, so please do it nicely. If you are going through this option, I must say that for us, for KDU-ČSL, we will definitely support the amendments that also go in relation to landlords with a certain state guarantee to guarantee that at a time when the tenants will not be able to repay it, so that at least the state will pay them back once, because they too have their obligations and have their costs and so on. So please, nicely, I understand the well-meaning effort to protect the tenant, but let's balance the rights and think about whether this solution is really good and effective. I don't think he is. Please, try to rethink it and try again in 14 days, the twenty-first, here to give points on the social agenda that will adjust, change, improve and make it more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u40	Thank you. I'm asking who else for the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. Final words? Madam Secretary? Yes, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u41	Thank you for the floor. I would really like to remind you again what the objective of the law is. The aim of the law is not to defer rent. The aim of the law is for those crisis measures that we don't know how long they will last, but most likely because we have an emergency situation by the end of April, so maybe by the end of April, maybe something else in May, but that's the end of May, and then we agreed to it, and here I take it that those deadlines were, because we had it in the law until 30 at the latest. 9. and that is why today I will actually support the amendment, where it is no later than 31. 7. That means, of course, that there shouldn't be long periods. It's not that they don't pay rent, they have to pay housing services, that is, if they don't pay services, then of course the law doesn't apply to them. And there really is this law about not being able to give a statement during those crisis measures as such. I would also very much like to join in thanking all the landlords, because I also actually have a number of landlords writing to me, that even without the law, of course, immediately when they contact the tenants, they arrange payment schedules, and I agree that it is necessary to thank them for that. On the other hand, not everyone is lucky to get into the hands of really good landlords who communicate with them. Some also desperately call for even a tendency to increase rent, which, of course, is alarming. [[20.50 hours]] As far as the moratorium is concerned, I'd just like to say here that we've just adjusted those deadlines. That was also, of course, a good point. I therefore repeat once again, the new deadlines, as is the case in the amendment, until 31 at the latest. 7. because there will be room for this social benefit, and the protective period will not be until 31 May, but only until the end of the year, i.e. until 31. 12. 2020 if you support this amendment with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u42	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word, the general debate has been concluded, we will continue the debate in detail. The first candidate is Mr Dominik Feri. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will also respond to what has been said a little bit sideways and between the lines in the general debate. The landlord's not a crook. You can't say it that way on a flat-rate basis. The landlord doesn't pull the longer end of the rope. For God's sake, life is a green tree. There are different life situations, different legal relationships, you can inherit the apartment, then you can stop going to work as a result of some injury, you'll depend on if you have someone there, you'll want to make a deal with that person. The proposal is wrong of the title that puts the landlords in their mouths, that they don't want the apartments occupied, that they want to kick the tenant out immediately. That's completely pointless. And even in a crisis that all the landlords might want to throw all the tenants out of those apartments. That's ridiculous. This proposal precludes the agreement of decent equal people in a private relationship. We will support our fellow Members' amendments and I myself submit the amendments that I am now reporting to in detail in the debate. These are proposals that you will find as House Document No 4828 and 4874. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u44	Thank you. Now, Mrs Šafránková, Mr Kytýr will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I hereby sign up for my amendment, which leads them under the number of House document number 4715. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u46	Thank you. Mr Kytýr now and Mr Kupka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 4748 by Mr Milan Pour, and I would briefly justify it. The proposer of the amendment believes that it is necessary to specify the allocation of the rent paid after the relevant period. It believes that the House's press does not regulate this. For these reasons, in the amendment, it proposes that the rent paid during the protection period should be used to cover the rent during the protection period and only after the withdrawal period will the rent be used to cover the claims of the relevant period. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u48	Thank you. Now, Mr Kupka, Mrs Válková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u49	Good evening, dear colleagues. I'll be here a little longer, because I have more of those amendments with regard to the form of the material itself. First I would like to apply for printing 4745, respectively. to the amendment under number 4745, which provides for the real aid of the state in the form of an increased contribution to housing so that it is not a law that merely shifts responsibility to landlords, but that the State actually applies here to some concrete aid to people who find themselves in a difficult situation in their lives. [[document]] The next amendment is 4851, where it is a shortening of the relevant period until 30 June with the possibility of an extension until 30 September this year. The next amendment has number 4852 and this is where the measure extends under the scum and under the scum in those cases, e.g. The apartment house is in the scent so these cases don't fall out. The next amendment has number 4853 and provides for a clarification that whoever finds himself in this difficult situation of life and who applies the delay must submit documents. The current resemblance is somewhat vague and will also create uncertainty on the part of tenants and landlords themselves. The next amendment has number 4854 - it is just a terminology that seeks to bring the draft itself closer to the wording of the Civil Code, which would certainly be appropriate, and instead of the claims it uses the concept of debt, which is also the right step in consultation with the legislation so that there is no questioning. The next amendment has number 4855 and in this case it is that the proposal falls out of the measure in the case of terminated leases within a protective period, because then it could happen that the commitment will never be paid again, because in the meantime, the very contractual lease relationship will simply end. The next amendment has number 4856 and in this case it is legal certainty in the sense that if even the landlord himself finds himself in secondary difficulties e.g. with the repayment of its own loans, so here is directly given for its tranquility a reference to the Act on deferment of repayment of loans, which we have approved. In the next Amendment 4811 we are trying to contribute to making the legislation as a whole more balanced, not just by adding black Peter to the owners and landlords themselves, but by bearing a guarantee for impregnable claims in its entirety. That is Amendment 4811. And Amendment 4857, which determines the guarantee of the State at 80 per cent. So many presentations of individual amendments, the only objective of which is to improve what we have on the table at the moment, and in some cases, which is even more important, to ensure a better balance between those who actually deserve the help, whether the state here will shift all responsibility only to the landlords of the owners, or also take over some serious real part of the aid. For us, we are clearly in favour of not just throwing black Petr over, but really helping the state here, just as it is trying to help in the case of other approved laws in case of an emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u50	Thank you, Mr Kupek. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, Mr Lipavský will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u51	Yes, Mr Vice-President, thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will speed this up, because you know that my proposal is only about specifying and shortening deadlines. So one more time. Put into the system under number 4850, four amendments. 30 September 2020 is reduced to 31 July 2020, which is therefore a decisive time. The withdrawal period shall be reduced from 31 May 2021 to 31 December 2020. And then the other two proposals: § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of CRR 5 merely specify by either supplementing all claims by specifying that they are rental receivables or abolishing them in such a way as to eliminate possible interpretation problems in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u52	Thank you. Mr Lipavský has given up his application. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, Mrs Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u53	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up here for my amendment 4882. This may be an unnecessary amendment, perhaps even a legal standard as such will be very short in its effectiveness. Let's all hope it's short. But I still took the liberty of suggesting a thing that might enable tenants to better focus on how to proceed in this crisis situation and to make better use of and defend their rights against many real estate landlords. So I hope that you will support this proposal, which is quite simple and talks about what material and who will prepare the documents, how they will be defined so that the tenants know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u54	I thank Mr Luzar. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Marian Jurečka will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u55	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to the amendment under House document 4726. This proposal sets out provisions (a) and (b). A point (a) of paragraph 1 of paragraph 3 shall be inserted in paragraph 1 and the words "at the relevant time' shall be inserted there. Why do we exclude the provisions (a) and (b)? It can be expected that it will often be problematic for tenants to show that the delay occurred mainly as a result of the epidemic. The proposed provision creates unjustified differences, for example, in the sense that repayment of the loan is postponed to all without proof, while the tenant must justify his delay. Furthermore, in Amendment 3 we place at the beginning of paragraph 4, which will be renumbered to paragraph 3, that the tenant is obliged to pay all claims that have become due at the relevant time and which the tenant has not properly paid up until the end of the protection period. In point 4, we are releasing part of the provision, on the grounds that it is a very vague provision and could, in practice, provoke interpretation disputes. In the next part, i.e. in points 5, 6 and 7, the terminological extension of the concept of termination of the lease takes place in such a way as to reflect other possibilities of termination of the lease during the protection period than the expiry of the agreed period, such as termination or agreement to which the original government proposal referred. There is no reason to limit the provision only to fixed-term leases, since even leases for an indefinite period may be terminated during the protection period and the legal regime of maturity needs to be addressed. The proposed text of the provision puts the lessor at a significant disadvantage when it sets a very long time limit, i.e. the end of the protection period in which the tenant is obliged to repay his claims whose maturity occurred at the relevant time. We propose that this deadline be reduced by the tenant being obliged to pay his claims due within 30 days of the end of the lease, which we consider to be balanced both on the tenant's side and on the landlord's side. So, once again, I am signing up for the amendment under House document 4726. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u56	Thank you. In a detailed debate, President Marian Jurečka will speak, and Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u57	Thank you. Have a good evening again. I want to sign up for Amendment 4801, which I spoke about in the general debate, which aims to ensure that, at the moment when the period ends, the tenant's protection is still there, as it is also in the Civil Code, so that this is brought into line. So that's the point of the amendment. Thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u58	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u59	Thank you for the floor. I would like to address the Minister in particular, because she has not answered any questions about how it will be, since the deadline for a possible statement begins, what happens when someone doesn't pay the rent in September. It's absolutely a key thing. We're making decisions here about something that will affect the everyday life of hundreds of thousands of people. Although the rent relief only applies to those who have a proven impact on the fight against coronavirus. All those with stable incomes will have no relief. That is, of course, correct in the law, but it will have an impact on a lot of people, whether in retirement or otherwise, even though they are renting out one or two apartments. That's why it's extremely important that the law be written quite correctly. And in his briefness and simplicity, maybe he doesn't think that way. The housing allowance is quite complexly designed to actually take your income back a quarter of a year, which is how it is assessed. And what happens if there's no evidence of the housing expenses? Today's housing allowance is attributed to what you've proven to have had in the last three months these housing expenses. But if you don't pay anything? In fact, there are just more and more questions and fewer and fewer answers. I am applying to Amendment 4740, to abolish free zones, because this is one of the things that will be needed to pay housing supplements throughout the Czech Republic, and to propose 4741 to cancel this for the duration of the crisis. But I have to say again, I wasn't convinced by the debate here. It is not technically discussed how these complex mechanisms are going to work today, it is not clear what guarantees the landlords will have for the next few months. They're gonna wait four months, and then they should possibly have another three months plus one to clear out? That's totally vanquishing. Please explain these questions to us, Madam Secretary. In the same way, at least some certainty would be to allow payment on account of the owner, some such mechanisms. The trouble is, it just seems like there's a hole in it. The hole that someone will be able to say to each other is now much more free apartments, because after all they have freed up because of Airbnb, because there are no strangers and so on, so it will be possible for many months not to pay, to move out and rent an apartment elsewhere. You know that I am a person who advocates for a coherent society, for fair measures, but during this debate in the House, I began to reconsider my position that this will lead to a good one, and it still seems clear to me that it is not premeditated. I'm so sorry to have to say this. I wish that was thoughtful, I wish that we could now vote for a law that will solve the housing problem well, but the best solution would be to use that extraordinary state to radically transform labor offices, to radically transform the fact that there are no automatic systems now, in an emergency state, you're able to do it much faster and catch up in two months, three months such a payment system so that it can be managed through the social benefits, but not by carrying the burden to the landlords who lose their security from the state's decision and get no guarantee. Without the guarantee for them, for those who incur debts, it really doesn't make sense. There's one small provision in this proposal that if it was unbearable for the owner, then it's possible to quit, but it's just gonna be lawsuits. I'm afraid it won't meet the intended purpose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u60	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am applying to two amendments, namely the amendment under number 4731 and Amendment 4883. These are proposals which were uploaded to the system by colleague Richterová and reduce the time limits for which this measure is being applied. I understand that it is difficult in the current system of building a housing contribution to meet those deadlines at a shorter time than at the end of July, but I think it is appropriate for the government to use the two or three months we are offering here to actually reform the system and to start paying those contributions significantly more efficiently. I think it is a consensus of the whole opposition that we will be happy to participate in this process and we will be happy to support it, but the measures that threaten the homeowners, and often they are not millionaires, certainly not multimillionaires, but they are simply people who may have inherited their grandmother's apartment and maybe they have other people on their own who support them, they are just hundreds of thousands of people and they are not a monolithic group of rich people, and we are going to throw them at their necks by threatening to lose their income for many months. I think that in order for this measure to be proportional, it really should take the shortest possible time for the state to reform the payout, or pay a single dose. Tomáš Martínek has proposed an elegant solution for you to pay three times 11,000 with relatively small costs on the part of the state, because it will compensate for the vast majority of taxpayers next year and it is flat. You have the opportunity to solve the immediate aid and make it systemically again and just walk it off until May so that people can pay their rent out of this benefit. You've got plenty of options. And throwing it all on the hump of landlords seems unfair to me. There must be some proportion. If this is due by May, by June at the latest, I will vote in favour, but I have serious doubts about this government proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u62	Thank you, and President Bartošek is still on the agenda for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u63	Thank you for the floor. I here formally declare my amendment under number 4807, which proposes the cancellation of interest on late payments. And again, I say what I have already mentioned. I am afraid that by this bill, the government is merely transferring responsibility to property owners, as well as to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as before with regard to deferment of VAT on unpaid invoices. Unfortunately, from my point of view, this government is preparing laws that don't solve things, and only looking for those who will pay for it, and that is a bad solution. Unfortunately, I have to say it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u64	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate, please? No one's coming forward, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u65	I'll just say one sentence. I'm so sorry if I'm just listening to what you're saying here. The government's interest is to protect people from losing their homes in this difficult time. And if you don't care, we care!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u66	Thank you. That was the secretary's final word. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u67	Just a very short time, and I will use my priority right to do so. Madam Secretary, it has been made clear from my mouth that we must help people who would lose their homes, and it is impossible to create an army of people who will either fall into execution or lose their homes and be on the street. That's a bad solution. Just as bad as the real estate owner's solution is to expose them to a situation where they don't get rent and they themselves get into financial trouble because that outage of finance just happens. It is not possible to seek a solution only for one group and the other in some way to punish. Unfortunately, I say again, the solution was to come for both groups of residents, not punish people who are decent and caring. Just yes, there should have been a solution for both groups.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u68	President Bartoš with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u69	At least I'll use it psychologically as my final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u70	It could be the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u71	But that wouldn't be the emotion. I just wanted to react in this final word and summarize that there are quite a number of amendments. And if I don't like something, then when the petitioner, which, in the event of a legislative emergency, is the Ministry, and Minister Dostálová isn't so harsh when I say it, like Minister Schillerová, but if we're having a long debate here that's tiring, and somebody's giving it more emotion, I wouldn't shut it down by it, we want it this good, and if you don't approve, then you don't actually want it, like the secretary said before, it's not here to be on pensions to invest. We just think the system is unbalanced. I think these examples have been shown here. I think the polarity "who doesn't approve, wants people to end up on the street" is not so built, so I would like to mitigate the impact of the conclusion that was made here in the last statement by the Minister. It's just the system's set up somehow. We're changing his parameters. Many people with amendments think that they are changing them to a greater balance. That would close it. And we'll go through a rather complex procedure at third reading and see if the government will reflect on our proposals. I hope we agree on the essentials. At the same time, in the course of the debate, I have noted a call from Mrs Valachová - on the one hand, it sounded of ten thousand in some cycles that could be paid out, but we could certainly come to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by 21 April, when the House's standard meeting is in the area, and at least the risk that stretches here for quite a long time, so on the part of the payment of social benefits or assistance in material distress or other instruments, in some way, to resolve the uncertainty, so that it is not deeper for another group of people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u72	President Jurečka with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u73	I'm just really very brief. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, for your final very brief assessment, because if you look at what I said on the screen record, I made it clear that we were really prepared, if the government would like to extend the parameters of the housing contributions in any way so that no one would have to lose their roof over their head, their home. So we at KDU-ČSL are prepared not only to support this, but also to help these things work expertly. So please, nicely, let's not make it so simplistic, let's be paranoid that only the coalition cares about doing good, and the opposition is preventing it. That's definitely not what happened here tonight in this debate, and I'm sorry if you put it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u74	Thank you. With the right of priority, Madam President of the club, Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u75	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to comment for our club on what has been said here from the Minister's mouth, because it actually delegate it to other entities from the state, it is very easy. You're saying you're saving somebody's place. It is precisely the opposite, because our amendments here deal in a fair way, so that not only housing for those people who are using apartments today, but also for a fair market for landlords to work here. I mean, the landlords are also... or they're supposed to form some kind of interest group for you as the Ministry of Regional Development. They're people who just didn't get the apartments illegally. Now they've been rented to someone, and you're transferring to them what we think they are, and our opinion has been reflected in the amendments that the state should actually do. And you're transferring it to the landlords, and it seems unfair to us. So what we find unfair is that you say you're the ones who don't want to chase anybody out on the street. We don't want to chase anybody out on the street, either. But we don't want to transfer one problem from one person to another.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-013-013.u76	Thank you. And at this point, I am ending the second reading of this proposal, which we will then return to at third reading when the revised amendments are tabled in writing. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 7 Act on Rules of Procedure will follow third reading point number
