ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 62nd session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you here. To record our involvement, I've just checked you all out. Please log in with your ID cards or tell me who's applying for a replacement card. I note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. On 5 October this year, in accordance with Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, the government declared an emergency for a maximum period of 30 days for the territory of the Czech Republic for reasons of health risk in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus also known as SARS-CoV-2 in the territory of the Czech Republic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 Constitutional Act No.110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaration of emergency only after the prior consent of the Chamber of Deputies. On 27 October this year, the government asked the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. Pursuant to Paragraph 109m (1) of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the House will decide on such a proposal in a shortened hearing. In view of the above, I have included the 62nd meeting point of the Czech Government's request for an extension of the emergency situation in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and under the agreement of Members' Club Chairs, it should have been discussed today as the first item. I know there's been another communication between the presidents in the meantime, and we'll get to that. Another important point that we should discuss in the third reading block, for which the legal deadline has been fulfilled, is paragraph 357, print 997. After that, we would continue with the firmly listed point 503, which is the information of the Minister of the Environment on the situation on the Bečva river. We would then, if necessary, continue by discussing the item from the block of first reading of laws. And before I ask, I see Prime Minister Chvojka reporting with priority rights. However, before I give him my word, I would like to welcome the new Minister of Health, Jan Blatný, who is present. Good luck and good luck in your new position. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Lubomír Metnar is further apologized from the members of the government for work reasons, Tomáš Petříček for work reasons and Robert Plaga for work reasons. Now, on the agenda, President Chvojka has applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues. I only have one proposal to change the program, or to move one point higher than it is. I think what I'm about to do has logic. I would ask that we move this House press 997, one-time allowance to the elderly, up completely, which means we're going to discuss it as item one today. And there are basically two reasons. The first reason is that the other points, especially the extension of the emergency, are a point that can theoretically go quietly after 14 o'clock. This means, in theory, it is possible that an increase in the pensioner's allowance might not be possible. That means if the emergency was the first one, he would have gone after 2:00, so we wouldn't have gotten to that one-time allowance to seniors. That's one, I think logical, reason. And the other one is that we need to send it to the Senate as soon as a one-time allowance passes. And if it were later this afternoon or sometime after 12 o'clock, that would be a problem too. So all I'm going to ask is for a one-off allowance to be given to pensioners today as point one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-000-000.u3	Thank you. On the agenda, President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-000-000.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, representatives of the government. I would like to propose, in today's agenda, that the item or two points concerning the discussion of the government's design of the construction law be eliminated. If I'm not mistaken, it's 1008 and 1009. She is therefore designed and convened extraordinary, or if she is already convened, on Thursday, which I think at the time of the lockdown is not only responsible twice for Members, but also because the press will probably have a lot of people who want to respond to it. And calling an emergency meeting in such a state, I don't see it as twice as happy. However, back to today's agenda. I suggest we take the building bill off the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-000-000.u5	Thank you. However, if there was a small miracle and we discussed the construction law today, then an extraordinary meeting is redundant. But that's more of a bonmot than a reality. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in completing the agenda. It's not like that. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Just to be clear, we still have a variable week ahead of us. President Bartoš is proposing that these items be excluded from this meeting entirely? [[Yes.]] Okay. First, then, we would deal with President Chvojka's proposal to discuss the one-off contribution to pensioners, press 997, today as the first item, and only then would we discuss the emergency extension point. There's enough available. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 190. At this moment we are present 92, for 64, against one. This proposal was adopted. We will now vote on President Bartoš's motion to see paragraphs 53 and 54, press 1008 and 1009, which is a building law and then a related law. [[disabled]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of taking these points out of the meeting. Who's against it? Voting number 191, registered 92, for 31, against no one. This proposal was not adopted. This has dealt with all the proposals and we will continue according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Opening point at point number
