ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u1	30. Government bill amending Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on courts, judges,judges and state administration of courts and on the amendment of certain other laws (laws on courts and judges), as amended, and other related laws /public press 630/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will again be made by Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a government bill amending Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on Courts, Judges, Admins and State Administration of the Courts and others. This proposal is presented in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for 2019 and following the Government's programming declaration in which the Government has undertaken to enforce the statutory conditions for the selection of judges. First of all, the amendment responds to the recommendations of the Group of States against the corruption of GRECO, which has already started criticizing us for being slow in this. The main objective of the proposal is to establish a uniform transparent system of selection of judges, judicial officials, as well as a more detailed regulation of the secondary activities of the Judges and a revision of the Institute of Criminal Procedure. Within the framework of the unification of future judges, their preparation, an institute of judicial candidateship is hereby established, which comes after a technical judicial examination and represents a targeted preparation for the performance of the Judge's duties. The training of a judicial candidate may also be carried out by persons from other legal practice with a professional examination. The occupation of judicial posts will take place in the selection procedure for specific vacant posts within the territory of the Regional Court. Experts outside the judiciary will also be able to sign up for the tender. The selection of the Presidents of the District and Regional Courts will take place through tendering procedures, where the parameters of the tenders will be newly established by law compared to today's situation in which the selection procedures are ongoing, but the rules are regulated by the Ministry's instructions. Furthermore, the amendment explicitly provides for a ban on the repetition of the appointment of Presidents in the same court, which results from the current case law of the Constitutional Court, and compulsory managerial training for judicial officials. It also introduces a system of notification of secondary activities of judges and provides for an explicit ban on the membership of judges in political parties and political movements following the model of judges of the Constitutional Court. In addition to the recommendations made by GRECO, there is a proposal for a restriction on members of the criminal proceedings. Decision-making in the Chamber with the Secretaries should be limited to a group of the most serious offences, among which violent offences remain in particular. Originally, the amendment contained the complete abolition of this institute of adjoinings. As part of the settlement of comments, this option was accepted by the Recodification Commission to the new Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendment to the Law on Courts and Judges was widely discussed with representatives of the judiciary on many series of round tables in autumn 2018 and in 2019, early this year, attended by the Presidents of the Supreme, Supreme and Regional Courts as well as representatives of the Judging Union or the Institute for Justice Affairs. The former President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the President of the Judging Union also took part in the hearing at the Legislative Council of the Government and let me say that we have managed to find a consensus. The proposal in this form is fully accepted by the representatives of the judiciary. Thank you for your attention and please support this government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading was Mr Jan Farský, but Mr Jan Farský is excused. We will therefore have to find another rapporteur. Mr Dominik Feri is ready to take up the role of rapporteur? Excellent. But since we are at first reading, we will have to agree to this change in the rapporteur. We will therefore vote on the fact that Mr Dominik Feri will be rapporteur for this press instead of the originally proposed Mr Jan Farský. I think we can start with the vote. Initiating vote. Who is the rapporteur for a change? Who's against it? Voting number 85, 145 Members registered, for 103, against no one. The motion was accepted. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Dominik Feri. I beg him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u4	Thank you for the floor. This press was delivered to us on 22 October 2019. We've been a little late discussing it, but I think we can discuss it quickly within the constitutionally-legal committee that we can find a consensus there. The Minister has already mentioned this crucially. The difficulty of the proposal is to adjust the questions of entry into the justice system, especially to adjust the questions of entry into the justice system so that the entry is transparent and unified, which means that there are no eight units where it is done in each part differently, somewhere better, somewhere worse, but to be centralised. I will then speak in the proper debate. This is a news report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u5	Thank you. One more apology before I open the debate. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 18.15 to the end of the day for health reasons. I'm opening the debate. Mr Dominik Feri is the first member of the debate, i.e. the rapporteur for this press at the moment. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has mentioned that everything has been consistently pre-negotiated, everything has been sort of combed, and this press will pass through the House like a butter knife. But it is not entirely true, and it was confirmed in the events at the event that took place here in the State Acts for the Organization of the Judging Union, when the representative of the Ministry of Justice was Mr.Franěk - until I felt a little sorry for him - grilled by judges who are actually making it up there. I think that the proposal is affected by many mistakes, it has numerous flies, even maybe even meatballs, and they may raise doubts about the independence of justice, for example, from the point of view of the opposition, but the judges themselves point to them very badly. If I had to poke something out, what kind of proposal am I going to make? For example, it is said in the selection of judges that judges will have a majority on that committee. But the trick question is, the Justice Department picks those judges. This means that this in itself is something that, in my view, should be regulated when, for example, those Regional Court Presidents, because they are now handling it very well. Let us not make them inadequate that everything needs to be centralized. Another question that arouses great emotion is the management principle of court proceedings, that is, management functionary. In other words, the President is automatically terminated by the Vice-President of that court. That's what the representatives of the judiciary call the so-called Indian funeral, which means that with a man, a husband, a wife is leaving. And it's something I don't think should be introduced. I understand the advantages of the management principle that the chairman chooses his team, so he can effectively run the trial as a clerk. On the other hand, imagine a situation where the President of the court leaves for medical reasons shortly after his appointment, and a good Vice-President of the court will actually be relieved of his duties and will be denied his application for it again. That's something I don't think should be there. There should be a compromise option, for example. That they would just agree to each other and so on and so forth. Among other mistakes, I consider that there is quite a great deal of discretion in the selection of the new President of the Court of Justice. That he's giving some kind of assessment of what the candidate is. And I don't think it should be there either. And another thing, very close to me - not for me, more for my classmates in law school - is the question of joining the judiciary. That is, if, after the adoption of this amendment, it will enter the judiciary as interesting as the plaintiffs might wish. Because there's actually a triple checkup. We're pretending that the system may not be able to expose someone who has nothing to do within the justice system, who isn't a good lawyer, who isn't good in terms of making decisions about those things that maybe they're entrusted to assistants, and so on. But we must constantly and systematically test them. And the experience, while I was talking to the judges who had a short run, is that just centralized tests -- and we've all met with it -- centralized tests are simply putting pressure on technicality. Not practicality, but technicality. Unfortunately, that is the case with these things. But to be positive about it. I believe I will be hearing about one thing that the judge is very concerned about and which unfortunately remains unheard of, and that is the question of solving the burnout syndrome. We must no longer pretend that being a judge means that he has tenure, that he has a good salary, and that it's actually quite a great place, without, say, everyday difficulties. Burnout syndrome is something that judges are struck by, what is bothering them, and what the Judging Union keeps putting on the hearts of legislators, that they should deal with it in some way. And the solutions are already a little ahead of the shot - it could be some sort of sabbatical, it could be some kind of support, like recreational activity or something like that. Or psychological counseling, even that would be enough, that would be the least of it. In order for a service to work at the Justice Academy with well-chosen psychologists who can somehow solve the problems of judges who have to make decisions every day and from whom the parties actually expect that when they come to the courtroom, there will be a judge who knows the file, who has read it and who can teach and know how to decide. Burnout syndrome is something that should be included in the proposal or, respectively, the solution to the burnout syndrome. And I believe it can be delivered there. I dare - and that is what I was going to propose - to extend the deadline for 20 days because I think it is simply not settled. I think the representatives of the Judging Union should join us on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. It's going to be a little bit worse in this time of year on the organisation of seminars. Unfortunately, I don't think that's gonna work, or 99 people. But I also think it would be worthwhile to get a statement from the judges, because this proposal, as it goes here, I think it is definitely not some final compromise and, in this form, it will certainly not leave the Chamber of Deputies. čili I suggest we extend the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days, to 80. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u7	Yes, I reflect our proposal. And now, with a point of fact, Mrs Helena Válková will speak and prepare for Mr Jiří Kohoutek. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I really think that this amendment is crucial compared to the previous amendment, because it finally introduces a certain uniform system after many years. Perhaps some of you who do not live by justice have also escaped. I think Dominik Feri expressed it very well through you. The optics of the young law student, of course, that he wants a level playing field. At least this novel improves them considerably. Because what I have to agree with him completely, and as former secretary, what the county, the other morals. And sometimes the morals are more favorable to a future judge, or a candidate for a judge, somewhere, no. Why should that be, none of us know. That's the first one. And my second point is that, of course, the amendment - I was also at the seminar, which Mr Feri mentioned here by you through - was subject to a rather harsh criticism by the Judging Union, but there was already a solution, which was agreed by the head of legislation, Mr Franěk, who was present there. And I believe that in the second reading - I still have 30 seconds - it is not something that would change the skeleton of the proposed proposal that we would have to reject it now. But I also join what has been said here that this deadline could be extended by 20 days. There's more of these changes needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u9	Thank you. Mr Jiří Kohoutek will now make a point of fact. [[He's not reporting a word.]] Ambassador, I have your application here. You're not interested in getting off? [[No.]] So in the general debate, Mr Stanislav Grospič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, let me also make a few comments and comments on the draft amendment to the Law on Courts, Judges, Admins and State Administration of the Courts, as amended by some other laws. I believe that, first of all, it must be taken into account that the proposal will have a significant impact on the state budget as regards the activities of the Justice Academy and the need for an increase in the number of employees, as well as the need for managerial training for the Presidents of District, Regional and Supreme Courts. Now the question is whether regional, regional and supreme courts are to be primarily managers or to be good judges, or whether these things are to accumulate, because long-term discussions are being held about whether the administration of the courts should more or less separate, or whether it should be identical to the Presidents of regional and district courts, or the Supreme Courts, and whether the judges themselves should do these things. And what is the role of the Justice Department here in relation to the operational administration of justice? It is undoubtedly necessary to ensure the quality of the preparation of future judges. I don't think that's what we're discussing. However, there can be some doubts about the proposed system of selection of judges and judicial officials, as the proposed system appears to be relatively complex and costly. The position of assistants and judicial candidates is hereby established, and it is possible to become a judicial candidate after successful completion of the selection procedure. The proposed proposal also provides for a new institute of a judicial candidate, which brings about many legislative technical changes, introduces a notification regime - this has already been mentioned - concerning the secondary work of judges and is about setting transparent rules in order to avoid compromising confidence in the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. [[18.40 hours]] The application is dealt with in very detail by judicial officials who have a specific and significant position, which must correspond to the rules governing their selection and appointment, and in this context a ban on the re-execution of the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the same court is also proposed. It is, of course, a matter of consideration, and it is a topic that has been discussed for a long time. However, it is also admitted that the exercise of the office of President in a court of the same degree may be conditional, and that, in the case of Vice-Presidents, the repetition of the office in another court is also admissible, and in the same court, this is excluded only during the immediately following term of office. In the case of the Supreme and Regional Court, the repetition of the terms of reference in a court of the same degree is possible only after a period of five years from the date of termination of office. Therefore, there is no exclusion from the position of Vice-President as President of the Court, but the law does not expressly prohibit the opposite of the case where the President of the Court subsequently obtained the post of Vice-President. In this case, however, the petitioner himself mentions the possibility that the President's mandate may be extended, in particular if the functions of the President and Vice-President are changed only for the same persons. In this case, the question is why the appellant did not modify this matter by expressly prohibiting such a step, but only satisfied with the statement in the explanatory memorandum that such cases should not occur. The explanatory memorandum is not a binding text, the binding text is a legal text. The selection of judicial officials will take place within transparent tendering procedures, on the basis of pre-established rules and taking into account objective criteria. However, the prerequisites for appointment to office are laid down directly by law. A new obligation is introduced to complete managerial education for judicial officials, and here are the mentioned costs for the Justice Academy. The draft submitted shall lay down the rules governing the selection procedure, the composition of the selection panel, which shall depend on the taking of the position, and the judges shall have a majority in it. Now the question is whether this is the right approach or whether it should not be argued about whether judges should actually choose themselves primarily. The concept of a professional judicial examination following the unification of the system of preparation of judges is now proposed. Access to the expert judicial examination shall be maintained for persons within the judiciary, i.e. the assistance of judges and senior judicial officers, and the professional judicial examination shall be allowed to be carried out by civil servants in the service of legislation and legal activities under the legal conditions laid down. However, the question is why it is not possible to carry out professional examinations also to other persons in the field of legislation and legal activities. The petitioner is not responding to this fact in any way in the explanatory memorandum. The expert judicial examination should be composed before the training of a judicial candidate. The preparation for the performance of the Judge's duties should take one year and should be focused on the skills of the Judge and the core of the Judge's duties. A new tender for the post of judge is introduced into the law; this procedure must be preceded by the training of a judicial candidate. The selection procedure shall be an obligation and one of the prerequisites for the performance of the Judge's duties. The amendments to other laws are therefore only a response to the proposed changes in the law on courts and judges, because the proposed law on courts and judges repeals the concept of a judicial candidate and replaces it with the concept of a judicial candidate. Amendments to certain laws in the submitted material do not favour this fact and use both terms, for example, in the Law 451/1991 Coll., which sets out some additional prerequisites for the performance of certain functions in the state authorities, and as amended, in the notary order, which leads to conceptual incoherence. Therefore, although the proposal has its merits, in particular in terms of ensuring the expertise of future judges, it appears to be too complicated and with other small demands, particularly at the Justice Academy. I would like to draw attention to another issue that this law brings. The House press that we have before us, among other things, also contains restrictions on the Institute of Adjoinments. The seats are judges who are elected representatives of our cities and regions for a period of four years. It should be said that I do not personally share the arguments put forward by the Ministry of Justice in the explanatory memorandum, because I consider them imaginary. If the seats were even more limited in ideas, there will be a reduction in the aspect of humanity in judgments and reductions in the deliberations of the courts, and I fear that this will not clear up the judicial system, even though it is probably the carrying idea that was led by the petitioner, because in these two aspects, the guarantors are basically the ones who are sitting next to it. [[Nesroz.]] Our modification is based historically on the adaptation of German and Austro-Hungarian. In Germany, the Institute of Adjoiners is quite widespread in a larger scale than the legislation in force in our country, and a flat-rate compensation for the loss of their time is also understood, the amount of which is slightly higher than the German minimum hourly wage and is calculated on hours, not on the days when the sitting in court. In 1993 the Ministry of Justice understood the flat-rate compensation in this way, unfortunately it started to ignore inflation and did not modify the decree in its diction. [[Nesroz.]] As a result of this behavior, our representatives of the regions and municipalities have put themselves in an awkward position. The embassies took all the candidates to the state of the seats. The Ministry has put this institute in a position of economically loss-making public function, and this approach in this proposal is forecasting and moving on. If we want this institute to fulfil its purpose, and I would certainly like the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia to do so myself, we need to increase the flat-rate compensation at least as it is in other countries, I do not want to say that German adjustment should be a model for us, but we should at least approach the real minimum wage adjustment in our country, calculated on hours, and attractive this institute towards the public, to achieve also the education of the fellows, what is therefore ignored for a number of years, at least 20 years. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] I would therefore like to say that this proposal is not a proposal, but by admitting, in fact, that the Ministry of Justice, which I feel, is not the responsibility of the current Minister of Justice, has long underestimated and downplayed. So if we change the law, as the government suggests, we will increase the environment in a certain way to limit the influence of the seats, to transfer responsibility to the judges themselves, and we can deal with the problem of corruption or the question of why only the Senate should decide on guilt and punishment for serious crimes of economic and economic nature, but only the judges should now decide. I think that these are all very serious questions that cannot be underestimated. I do not propose that this law be rejected, but I also join in extending the 20-day hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u11	I will look around the hall to see if I have any interest in speaking in the general debate. No one else... For the general debate, yes. Minister Marie Benešová, then, of course, you will be given the opportunity to say the final word. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u12	I will take advantage of what has been said here. As far as Mr Feri is concerned that judges will be selected for the commission by the Ministry of Justice, I would point out that the judge is not losing his independence by being elected to the committee because he has the independence guaranteed, and if he doesn't do anything, he's not losing his independence until he's almost 70 years old. I think we're more papal than the Pope. There are judges all over the world sitting on different committees, only we're still defending ourselves here. After all, this was also a reminder of the Government's Legislative Council, which was applied by the then Supreme Court President Šámal. As far as burnout syndrome is concerned, you know, I've been dealing with one problem of judges after another lately. First, I filed two disciplinary charges against two high-ranking judges, and now I'm dealing with two more high-ranking judges from South Bohemia. So I have to say, the Judging Union has somewhat exaggerated demands. They'd like extra burnouts, extra leave, etc. Who here in this republic has it? I think people often fight unemployment, look for jobs in vain, and here some judges don't even appreciate it. And I think that the judicial union should, above all, make the self-cleaning mechanisms in these courts work. At least that's my opinion. As far as the other comments are concerned, I think that others can be tuned in further discussions in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Members have the opportunity to submit amendments, but I warn you again, it is a request from GRECO, and we are obliged to comply with it, and I am definitely doing so. As far as Mr Grospič is concerned, the impact on the state budget. If there was a negative impact on the state budget, the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance would definitely point that out. There's no such thing here. [[18.50 hours]] And as for the second-in-command, I saved the second-in-command because when I came to the ministry, there was a proposal where they were completely demolished. So we left them at least in the most serious crimes, and I think they belong there, that this is the country's tradition. And with regard to their next financial, of course, they are undervalued, but there was no money in this budget, we will try to do so in the next one that will be done this year, and the Minister of Finance is counting on it. So, once again, I ask that the law be given green and that he be released and that we can discuss this in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u13	Let me see if there's any interest in the speech in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they are interested in final words. He's interested, so the rapporteur, Dominik Feri, is interested in the final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just gonna take a few thoughts on what's been said here. I understand that this is a bleacher and that standing up for judges isn't exactly popular. Because they only get shortcuts to the media that they have 140,000 gross and that they don't do anything and that there are delays in things and things like that. But we don't do it because of the judges! We're doing this for the parties. We're doing this for these people. So that there is a judge who is interested in the parties to the proceedings, who tries, does not decide from the table, orders meetings, tries to question everyone and so on. We're doing this for these people to believe in the system, the justice system, the democratic rule of law. So that's why we want this judge to be familiar with this thing and not be completely burned out at 45 years old. That's one thing. As for the second-in-command, let's not pretend to be here, either, that there will be two people who are not professional judges, that it will lead to a decision that will be fairer and more convincing. That's definitely not true. I don't want to put words in his mouth, but I think it was him who said at the event that he was dealing with some case of serious economic crime or something, and he has to study it himself for 14 days from some professional book, because this thing doesn't judge every day, and then he gets two second-in-Vávra from an older woman who may even be 70 years old - the second-in-chair doesn't apply to a 70-year condition - and it's not some issue of Ageism, please, but I mean that the border should be set - which he doesn't know anything about it, but they can still overrule the Senate President. So I'm not saying "let's cancel the seats everywhere," but, for God's sake, let's not say that this decision will be fair, that it will be more human. But it will certainly not be more human in the civil process. I don't understand why they should sit in a civil trial, why they should decide on these work matters by two sittings against one court president, when very often those sitting are employees, and they can somehow disadvantage the employer in those decisions, for example. That means, certainly, those decisions are not more convincing, they are certainly not fairer. And if we want people's courts here, I think we're a little further. But to end optimistically - I believe we can fix this in the context of extended committee discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u15	We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see any motion, so we'll proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. We will give little room for Members to come to the Chamber. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 86, 150 Members registered, for 119, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I see no proposal, so now we will vote on Mr Dominik Feri's proposal to extend - do I hear? Anyone knocking? Should we check out? Yes, there's a request, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. Log in with the voting cards again. I know some of them have their cards cleaned up. So please sign in again. So it's a motion to extend the deadline for a 20-day hearing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 87, 115 Members registered, for 64, against none. I note that the proposal has been adopted, and this concludes the first reading of this proposal. We open another point, it is a government bill amending Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access... Yes, with priority rights the chairman of the club ČSSD Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u16	Have a good night. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think that on such an important point, on the novel of the hundred-six, it would be good to set aside a lot of time, that there is no need to bite it. So, please, I'd like to take a break on behalf of the MP's club for the remaining four minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-013-030.u17	Yes, so I'm declaring a break by the end of the day, within 19 o'clock. I am interrupting this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies tonight and have a nice evening and I will see you tomorrow at 9 o'clock.
