ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government - I have seen the Vice-President here, I am opening the 78th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. To record your attendance at our meeting, I have checked you all out, please log in again with your identification cards. My colleague, Černohorský, has a replacement card number 10. And the others, if you please, report to me. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 78th meeting on 16 December. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that the meeting verifiers be Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Member Petr Dolínek. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide on the number one vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 1 of the 90 present for 90. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed members of Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Petr Dolínek to the 78th meeting. I say that by the beginning of this meeting, the members of the government asked for apologies: Marie Benešová, Karel Havlíček, Lubomír Metnar, Tomáš Petříček within 13 hours, Robert Plaga and Miroslav Toman - all for work reasons. As far as Members are concerned, we are half present, so I note that all who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. Members of Parliament, on 5 October at 0.00 this year, the Government declared in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 30 days. The Chamber of Deputies subsequently renewed, at its 76th meeting on 9 December of this year, its resolution 1409 on the request of the Government, the duration of the emergency until 23 December of this year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period following the announcement of the emergency situation only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 18 December this year, the Government requested the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic until 22 January 2021. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. In addition to the agenda, we have another proposal from the government to extend the agenda. We will now proceed to our own 78th meeting, as stated on the invitation, with the fact that the President of the Chamber of Deputies on the agenda, if the proposal for a 78th meeting is held, the Government's request for an extension of the emergency situation in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic proposes to discuss as item 2 of today's negotiations. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm asking because this is a proper meeting convened by the Organizing Committee, if anyone else is applying to the draft agenda. I see the President of the ODS. Mr President, I will give you my word immediately, and I will ask my colleagues to bring discussions outside the agenda into the lobby and give those to whom the floor is given the opportunity to comment on the 78th meeting in a dignified environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me to propose an extension of our programme, so as to propose paragraph 3. I respect what the Vice-President said a moment ago, which means that the government wants to discuss an emergency extension request as point 2. So I propose that we include as item number 3, first reading of the House's press, 1039. It is a proposal by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Petr Fiala, Marian Jurečka, Jan Farský and others for the issue of the State Aid Act in emergency measures announced in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus. Indemnification law. I think that even in that point 2, we can expect completely legitimate views during the debate to think about compensating those who, as a result of the measures taken by the government, have either suspended or limited business activities. There is, there is a crisis law. Under the crisis law, the State is to pay all the damage it incurs during crisis management. This bill goes to all entrepreneurs and proposes clear rules for the state as well as for those who could not, either fully or at all, enter into business. And we see that at this point in time we are unable to estimate when these restrictions will end, and we would have felt it necessary for us to discuss this bill at first reading today. We are aware of the reservations that the government has written about this, and I want to say that we are prepared to debate in substance and, if necessary, agree on amendments to adopt the compensation law from the beginning of next year, in the first months. I think it would be great if we could find a broader political consensus and give certainty in the uncertain time that we have been through, but also in the uncertain time before us. Of course, the argument may be that the government prepares another, better, more complex, etc. However, I think it would be a good signal at this time to say that the House is thinking of those who have limited business, who do not know when it will end, and that we have already begun to discuss a bill that could bring them at least a little certainty at this uncertain time. I believe we are able to support this proposal across the political spectrum, we are able to release it into second reading and then have a really factual and concrete and detailed debate on the parameters of such a law. Thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-000-000.u3	Okay, thank you to the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. Mr Veselý is now reporting for the debate on the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't have a proposal to complete the agenda, but to switch points. If we're talking about something causing damage, then another one that causes damage is definitely going to be a tax package, because as I understand it, there's going to be some going through here. So I suggest we change the order so that the emergency situation is discussed first and then the tax package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-000-000.u5	Well, thank you. That was a line because it wasn't a proposal that we should vote on. Who's next on the agenda? [[Outside the microphone is Mr. Veselý speaking.]] Reverse tax package. The first is an emergency, the second is a tax package. Okay. But point 3 would remain the way it is designed. So first of all, we would vote on putting a new item in the meeting. We must vote to include in the meeting, now without order, given what has fallen, the Government's proposal for an emergency situation, as suggested by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, will be the first vote. The second vote will include press 1039 and the third vote will replace item number 1, the tax package, for item number 2, because colleague Stanjura did not propose it for these two points. That's the order. So, first of all, we're going to vote on the classification of the emergency point, so far without order. The vote is number two, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of completing the programme on the Government's proposal to prolong the emergency situation. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number two, of the 102 Members present for 88, against 9. The motion was accepted. Now who agrees that a point - press 1039 - is a compensation law, so that I do not have to read the full title of the law, is included as the government's items. We will decide in the vote number 3 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Vote number three, out of 100 of the 40 in favors, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Now, then, is the proposal that we... With a technical remark, my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-000-000.u6	Good morning, I voted no on vote number two. I have a yes on drugs. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-000-000.u7	Okay, that's just for the tape screen. Now, then, Mr Veselý's motion to discuss the emergency situation as the first item and then the point to which the Senate law was returned. We're going to decide the number 4 vote I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 4, there are 101 Members present, for 12, against 15. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Then we will vote on our agenda. It will be item number one, the law returned to the Senate, so-called the tax package, and item number 2 will be the government's request to extend the emergency situation. Other points, if we continue, are, of course, given that this is a proper meeting, interpelations which would, of course, be on Thursday. We will decide on the agenda of the meeting as a whole in the vote number 5 which I have launched, and I ask who is so supplemented for the agenda. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 5, 103, for 91 Members, against no one. The agenda has been approved, so we will follow the agenda of the meeting. Initiating item one. Point number 1 is
