ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record our involvement, I'll check you out first. I'd like you all to sign up with your I.D. cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 16, Mr Bartoš votes. With the replacement card number 21, Mrs Pekarová is voting Adamová. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 45th meeting on 2 April of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We would now first proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Jiří Mihola and Members of Jiří Valenta. I'm asking if there's any other proposal to identify the verifier's person. I do not see anyone, so we will leave the proposal that has been made to vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who for the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number one, 134 Members registered, for 132, against no one, the proposal was adopted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Jiří Mihola and Jiří Valenta. I declare that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Miroslav Grebeníček - health reasons, Jana Levová - health reasons, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová - family reasons, Petr Pávek - health reasons, Vít Rakušan until 16.30 - family reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - health reasons, Václav Votava - personal reasons. The members of the government apologize: Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček until 15.00 hours - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. Madam Members, on Thursday, 19 March, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, I declared a situation of legislative emergency. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a government bill on excise taxes, House printing 825; Government bill on certain social security adjustments, House printing 828; Government bill on public health insurance insurance insurance, House printing 829; Government bill on compensation bonus, House printing 830; Government bill on tax deduction administration, House printing 831; Government bill on granting state guarantee of the Czech Republic to secure debts of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, a. s., House printing 832; Government draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, House printing 833. By decision number 47, number 49, and number 50, I decided to discuss these government proposals in a short hearing and ordered the House Press 825 to the Budget Committee, House Press 828 to the Social Policy Committee, House Press 829 to the Health Committee, House Press 830 to the Budget Committee, House Press 831 to the Budget Committee, House Press 832 to the Budget Committee and House Press 833 to the Budget Committee for discussion and set them an unbreakable deadline for submitting a resolution by 21 April at 12.00 at 825 and 828 at 23 April 2020 at 829 to 833 at 18.00 at the House Press Chambers. With the replacement card number 23, Mr Volný Lubomír votes, with the replacement card number 22, Mrs Kovářová votes, with the replacement card number 24, Mr Beitl. Dear colleagues, in relation to what I have just read to you, pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency to assess, before discussing the proposal for a programme, whether the state of legislative emergency persists. With the replacement card number 6, Mrs Valachová votes. I'm opening the debate. I'm asking if anyone wants to go to a state of legislative emergency. I don't see anybody, nobody's in the debate, so I'm done with it, and we're going to take a vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, 171 Members signed in, for 164, against 0, the proposal has been approved. We will therefore now proceed to the appointment of the 45th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals agreed by today's grémium. We propose: Firstly, to include in the draft agenda drafts of laws submitted for discussion in a short hearing, i.e. House press 825, 828, 829, 830, 831, 832 and 833. Secondly, to include in the motion for a bill rejected and returned by the Senate. This is about draft law amending Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended / House print 516/5/ - returned by the Senate, draft law amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Press 530/5/ - returned by the Senate, draft law amending Act No. 280/2009 Sb., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /German press 580/5/ - returned by the Senate, draft law amending Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll. House print 812/3/ - rejected by the Senate, Proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic on tenants of premises used to satisfy housing needs, on the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and in connection with the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in the house with apartments /house printing 815/2/ - returned to the Senate, Proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on tenants of premises for business /house printing 816/3/ - returned by the Senate, Proposal for a law on special rules governing the exercise of the profession of a doctor and non-medical medical profession by persons who have received vocational training in a Member State other than the European Union, in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic /German press 819/2/ - rejected by the Senate. [[14.10 hours]] Thirdly, to include in the draft agenda a proposal for amendments to the sitting order of Members in the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. Fourth, include in the draft agenda points, new points: Government information on the release of restrictive measures taken by the government, Government information on the purchase of protective equipment during emergency conditions. Fifth, to include laws at the end of the second reading block: paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 13, 14 and 15, House prints 531, 552, 644, 660, 673, 535. We also propose from the Gremium to discuss the points in the following order: Proposal for amendments to the sitting order of Members in the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. In addition, prints 825 and 828 - excise duties and social security. Furthermore, drafts of laws rejected and returned by the Senate in the order as read. Fourthly, information from the government on the release of restrictive measures taken by the government. Fifth, government information on the purchase of protective equipment during emergency conditions. That's all from today's Gremium. On the basis of Article 12 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 2 I propose, as President of the PS, to include in the proposal for a programme a request from the Police of the Czech Republic for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Ms Karla Maříková, on the News block, proposals and more. I will now ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to comment, if necessary, on the proposal for a programme. I was first given priority rights by President Pekarová Adamová. So I'm gonna ask everyone to settle down in their seats, and I'm gonna ask for peace in the courtroom. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include two new points and a ranking of one point that we already have on the agenda. I would like to start with what I consider to be a key point in the current situation and, therefore, a matter that we should still discuss today. I suggest we discuss this as the first point in today's negotiations. I took the liberty of calling this an extraordinary point the restriction of the cross-border movement of citizens of the Czech Republic during an emergency period. I think what leads me to present this material is obvious. The government decided by its resolution of mid-March that it would limit not only the possibility of travelling to the Czech Republic, but also the possibility of travelling from the Czech Republic to citizens of the Czech Republic. This fundamental intervention in human rights, in the rights of our citizens and their freedoms, is, according to many experts, a violation of the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Since there should not be a time of emergency, nor at the time that we are now experiencing and which is difficult for all of us, for citizens, to not honor the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, I think it is appropriate that this Government measure should be repealed as soon as possible and that we, as Members, also have the opportunity to comment on this matter. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Since then, the government has gradually adopted several specific minor exceptions allowing Czech citizens to leave our country. However, there are more reasons why people may need to leave the Czech Republic than these exceptions. And of course, this isn't about recreation trips. And, of course, we also realize that many countries, like us, also have strict conditions for entering their territory at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u3	I'll stop you for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to what is being said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. But even with this particular context, it is necessary, in my view, that we intervene only to the extent that the rights of Czech citizens are justified, and that even after these measures are put in place and evaluated, it is necessary to maintain them. And here we see the need to answer a whole series of questions. And one of all the demands that I would allow myself to make in the resolution, if this point is discussed, is that we should also know from the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior how the government has continuously assessed these measures, because that is what the resolution of 15 March 221 and the resolution of 1 April 370 impose on her. I think that this information, how these measures have been specifically evaluated and how it has been reflected in the current situation, should have been available to them. Another of the proposals that I should have - this is the first and concerns the restriction of the cross-border movement of citizens of the Czech Republic at a time of emergency. Another point that I dare to propose at today's meeting or this meeting is under the title Government Information on the procedure in the preparation of the introduction of the so-called clever quarantine. I will allow this point to be, maybe the government's preparation for it was so that it wasn't until tomorrow, at tomorrow's meeting as the first item, so that the information, the evidence, could be, could be complete. With the help of digital technology, the smart quarantine system is designed to create a so-called memory map for each infected person, where he's moved, who he's encountered over the past five days. Since it is the tracing of citizens based on the use of private data, to which private companies will also have access outside the state, the government should be fully transparent and open not only to the Chamber of Deputies, which performs a supervisory function, but above all to the citizens of the Czech Republic. The establishment of a committee for the oversight of the government's smart quarantine has been rejected. There was a motion for our last meeting here by the President of Rakušan. Nevertheless, the government's duty remains to inform us of the current developments. On 30 March the Smart Quarantine project began testing the South Moravian Region, later joined the Moravian-Silesian Region and Středočeský. Based on the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health from the end of last week, the smart quarantine should have spread to all regions yesterday. I assume that this decision was preceded by the collection and analysis of data and the evaluation of the pilot phases of the project in the pilot regions. I therefore ask for this point, where the government would first of all inform us of the results of the pilot phase of the smart quarantine: how many people have been involved in the project, how many people have been tested on the basis of this tool, how many people have been discovered by the smart quarantine or how many new cases have been identified, what conclusions are therefore and especially the next procedure. Furthermore, the government should also inform us about how the pilot phase has been assessed in technical terms, how people approach voluntary sharing of this data, how many people have refused to share the data. And last but not least, all state and non-state institutions have access to data. How they are handled and how they will be treated in the future. Last but not least, I would like us to hear from the government what the next step is in preparing a clever quarantine. For example, the extraordinary measures already mentioned by the Ministry of Health leave out the question of using memory maps from data of mobile operators and payment cards. Does the government still count on digital technology and data collection applications for smart quarantine? What is the next plan, or the timetable for putting this instrument into practice? I think we have a lot of questions, and it's relevant to ask for answers. There's only so much information in the media so far. Therefore, I beg you to include this point and to devote ourselves to it. I think it is not a policy that it is really an effort to know more and to be on this sensitive matter, which can be seen by many as a major invasion of privacy, and I also perceive it so that we can really dispel the various concerns that exist. That would be the first point for tomorrow's meeting. [[14.20 hours]] And my last request is for the House Press, which is at first reading, it is the House Press No. 536, it is a law on elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, namely a draft law which I, together with other Members, present and concerns the introduction of the so-called. correspondence elections. I think that this situation confronts us all with a whole range of new life challenges, and one of them is how to enable citizens to vote in elections, but perhaps in a form that is the least threatening to their health. If this situation continues, it will be up to date soon, in the fall. We have elections to the Senate and to the regions, and I think it is appropriate that we prepare a correspondence vote before these elections. I know that the Ministry of the Interior is working on the amendment of a number of laws relating to the elections, and now is the perfect time to move on and put them into practice. But as it prepares them, they contain so many changes that I fear they will raise up a big discussion and that this discussion will delay us from introducing the very key option of a distance vote and we will not be able to put this into practice at the moment. That is why I think that the proposal that we have tabled and which therefore concerns the elections, but to Parliament, could serve as a great supporter for the change of the electoral system and for allowing correspondence elections, as prepared, discussed in the framework of ministers, but prepared so much that it is enough for an amendment that would certainly be comprehensive - I am aware of this, but I am aware of this, but also by the amendment, to introduce the possibility for Czech citizens in the Czech Republic to vote in this form, even in the elections that will be waiting for us this autumn. I know this is a very ambitious goal in terms of time, but I believe that we are able to deal with it, but it is now necessary to start as soon as possible. And that is precisely what I would like to achieve by pre-routing a point, and that is why I will allow this press - I repeat, it is number 536 - to be included as the first item this week on Friday so that we can move the law to second reading so that a large comprehensive amendment can be prepared very quickly, which will bring us closer to this form of vote. It already works in most European countries. In most countries there is no problem and I do not see the reason why the Czech Republic could not finally allow its citizens to exercise their basic right of civil, i.e. the right to vote, even in this form. So I'm begging you both to place two new points and to assign this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Mr Tomio Okamura, Vice-President of Okamura, came forward with priority rights. Then with priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include, on behalf of the SPD, on the House's agenda tomorrow afternoon after the legislative need points, so that we do not delay, so I propose to include the 14th extraordinary point, and that is the announcement of a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. As you know, this is a topic that the SPD has been promoting for a long time. That's nothing new. But what really deserves to consider this proposal is the great economic crisis on which we stand. The current health crisis has shown us the EU's incompetence and harm, and on the other hand, it has shown that in an emergency, it is the national states that can and must, if they want, protect their citizens, and the truth is that there has been no major European solidarity, because when it comes to medical material, national states have not only banned exports, but have stolen it from each other, to the public. Yes, it turns out the shirt is closer than the coat. Turns out they didn't even lose their sense of national boundaries. I think we should look the truth in the eye and leave lying and artificial myths about some economic advantage for the EU. Only through sanctions against Russia have we lost an estimate of the Union of Industry and Trade by about a trillion crowns. The European Commission itself appreciated the costs of applying the directives to 3,4 percent of GDP, i.e. about 200 billion in our case. per year. Thus, costs far exceed the subsidy revenue. And if anyone dares to raise any subsidies, then tell the truth that we have to share in the projects with our own money and the money that comes from Brussels, most of it is our money that we send there, not only through direct contributions, but, among other things, there is a large part of our import duty revenue. We are also familiar with studies by Western economists who openly write that, for example, the Czech Republic is one of those who lose the most in the European Union in the sum of everything. Let's face it. Western states are experiencing a long-term trade crisis, and not us, but they need to establish the territory of Eastern Europe where they would expand. It was advantageous for them to take us into the EU. After all, it was advantageous for them to tie us up with conditions and guidelines so that we are a vassal economic colony, which is a market for their second-rate products and, at the same time, an inexpensive montage that makes money on their high standard of living. As far as free trade is concerned, even blind people see that a good EU trader does not just need it, but would be a burden. The best economies in the world, China, the US, Japan and others, are not in the EU and are, of course, far more successful than the EU. And I hope no one here thinks of weak-minded arguments like this: our business with the Union will perish by performing. I don't think even the biggest economic layman thinks that Western - and especially German - companies will shut down their factories here. That they will stop delivering to multinational trade chains in our country that they will give up the hundreds of billion-dollar businesses they have in the Czech Republic. Indeed, our Brussels politicians or journalists are not as blind as many of us are. And in the case of our performance, Western companies will lobby for the best possible conditions for import and export, because it will be not ours, but their money and business. Unlike Britain, we are, in fact, much of the breadwinner of many German and French voters, and no one dares touch that income. If so, it will be for our benefit. As we know, restrictions on trade with Russia have brought huge losses to Czech companies on the one hand, and Russia has motivated it to be self-sufficient. And our companies just replaced the Russian ones on the Russian market. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, I propose to include an extraordinary point called Referendum on the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the European Union, this Wednesday after the points in the legislative emergency. And as I was saying, the SPD movement is proposing it here in the House for the 14th time in history, and so far, you've denied us the inclusion of this point 13 times. So the SPD is the only party asking for a referendum, a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU, and we will continue to fight for the freedom and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. And if you agree to this point, I propose a resolution in the following text: 'The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the Government to draw up a bill on the referendum on the withdrawal from the EU'. Regardless of the government, which will undoubtedly reject the proposal for citizens to decide themselves democratically, we have prepared our own proposal for a referendum law on EU withdrawal, which is based directly on the diction and principles of the referendum already adopted on accession to the Union. We will present this law on behalf of the SPD to the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Another with priority rights is the President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, three ministers and one Minister, a colleague, a colleague. I come with a request and a request for the Chamber of Deputies to include a point of the Government's current information on aid to companies and businessmen at the meeting. Many reasons and, above all, suggestions from citizens lead me to do so. I brought them here with me, I have a few hundred specific stories that people write on e-mail, on social networks, and they describe what difficult situations they are in and where the government has possibly forgotten them. [[shows written materials]] [[14.30 hours]] Of course, I acknowledge and welcome and thank you for the measures that have already been implemented, but there are a large number of people, several hundreds of thousands of families, households of people who have worked properly until recently, paid their taxes, but they are simply in a situation where they have virtually no income. I would also like to briefly mention some of these stories here to support the urgency of this point. A writer writes about the reality of tradesmen. Unfortunately, the government completely wiped out one group that was pretty much affected by the coronation. They were one of the first to have to close from one day to the day of their establishment by the verdict of government, they are not entitled to anything. It is a subsidiary activity with only partial income from HPP, time 0.2, 0.4 or 0.5. Mrs. Schillerová has said to us that we regularly make money with HPP, which is not true. The CFI feeds us from more than 60 percent. It's our daily bread, our livelihood. I'm one of them, I have a full-time job at 0.4 HPP, and I work for a living. I pay two rents from an establishment, and I have other expenses. The income from HPP, which I have part-time, will not cover expenses for the self-employed. The government has now sentenced us to two and a half months without income. And in March, I paid my medical bills. So I'm paid twice. And in the end, I'm not entitled to anything? We feed families, children... and so on, writes a writer from the Highlands. There is also a specific story that presents the problem of small eseróček. The owner says I have a small company where I am also an employee. The subject of business is advertising activity. I've been working for exactly 15 years, and I've never owed anything to the state in that time, paid for everything on time. Now I've been hit by the Covid crisis, the job is at 10 percent, and who knows if. I have two children, 13.5 and 16,5 years. So bad luck with the infirmary. I'm at home with them. At least I was hoping to help with the Antivirus B program. After filling out the application properly, I felt like I wasn't entitled. And so on, the gentleman from Brno writes. There are really very sad stories. He writes a gentleman who also has a small eseróčko, government closed operation in Prague. Nothing. We're not entitled to anything. We can't get 80 per cent per employee, it's just cashback. So first we pay, and then we get 80 percent back. If you don't even have to pay the state's contribution because you pay all the fixed costs further without a single crown of income, you are the debtor of the state excluded from all programs. - People write that very, very, very often. Then Mrs. Hepnerová also writes here. Support of the CFI in practice. Two weeks ago, I filed a sickbay application. My money came into my account today. No, April April. I learned today that my application would be suspended because I didn't attach a certificate from school that it was closed. By the way, do you know any schools that haven't been closed? I followed the form, which they changed after two days. And it's logical that if I change the form after two days, then all applications submitted according to the original version of the stop sign and enforce the correction. And I could go on. I would like very much to ask the government to present - and therefore I am putting this item on the agenda tomorrow as the first item in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting so that the government can prepare for this - to give information on how to respond to these people. They're people on deals, people who work as businessmen for side business, they're Pendlers, they're little eseros. And these people are not yet remembered. People are telling us stories like they asked for in the COVID program. They receive negative information or negative opinions on their aid and there is no justification. They call and write to me companies that have good results, but because they have high depreciations because they have invested, so they are in accounting loss, even though last year they were in profit, and these companies are not entitled to any support. I've been getting texts from people who may have started a business in the last six months. They made a little boutique, and at this point, they keep the goods in stock, so they get no support, they don't have history. So please make sure that the government presents what further steps it will take to support these people. These people have their families, they have their children, and they figure out how to pay rent, how to support their families, and they're in a very difficult situation. They need help. We, for KDU-ČSL, have repeatedly proposed legislative measures to help them, but unfortunately, they have been swept off the table so far. And I would like us not to delay helping these groups of people to help them, because these people have always paid taxes properly to the state as they describe it. They're specific people. I'll hand it over to the secretary, the stories, so she can take a look at it. So please kindly support the inclusion of this point - Current Government information on helping businessmen and companies in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u9	I'm just here to fill in. Didn't you suggest a firm inclusion, just putting a new item on the agenda of this meeting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u10	I propose this as the inclusion of a fixed point tomorrow as the first item in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u11	Yes. Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes for health reasons for today's negotiations. The Minister of Finance wishes to speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I will respond to your speech. Twenty-five. There's nothing to prove in 25, it's not true. A statement of honor will be made, which is so simple that I don't know if it could be any easier. Every day after 16 o'clock, I get exact data on the number of applications submitted. So it's from yesterday, 'cause I'm gonna get it today. On yesterday's day 259 163 applications were filed, almost 80 per cent processed, which means that money is ordered to the bank and sent to the bank, and a little over 5 billion already. Well, just so you know. So there's no confirmation of the school, there's no sign of the 25th. I think you may have combined it with another program. So this is how I would like to explain it here. We'll talk about the continuation of the compensation bonus. The bill is on the agenda for this meeting. We have explained here several times that we took care of major groups in the first place, that is, to maintain employment, to support the self-employed, which happened through the 25th, the infirmary and other measures. And we said and we made a commitment to discuss minority groups. So the negotiator - as I am informed, Mr Sklenák and Mrs Pastuchová will submit an amendment to the infirmary where the negotiators will be dealt with. And as for the Eserócs, the one-man Eserócs, that means they don't have employees to fall under Antivirus, so they'll be dealt with through a special program prepared by the MMR, this week the government will discuss it. And of course the conditions will be set there, because 90 percent of these eseróček are from the field of tourism, but of course not all of them. Of course, certain measures must be taken to prevent us from reporting support for so-called dead mailboxes, but this will be on the agenda of the government this week. So please, it's not true what you're saying here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. I'm registering two priority rights. First, President Bartoš - he has just cancelled his contribution - and President Jurečka seems to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for that. I was talking here about the story of when it was the infirmary, which was about the DEA and when it was the introduction of the program when the form was modified after two days. And I have to say that those applicants who asked, and then, for example, those forms were fine-tuned, there were several who said that it was simply rejected afterwards without needing to be asked to correct, and they had to submit the application all over again. However, can I understand, Madam Secretary, that the government is really able to present a support programme for small eseróčka in the coming days, for people who work as a subsidiary, for people who work on agreements and also for one group that I forgot, and these are Pendlers? People tell me dozens of stories, when the government, in fact, has made it impossible for them to support themselves and their family, and they are also in a difficult situation. So I'd like us to remember the whole group I've named, not to let the government sign up for it. We are ready to help support these issues. I have already recorded legislative amendments in the system today, which remember all these groups and are also trying to get them into the rescue package that we are gradually implementing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. If no one with priority rights, then we will continue with written applications for the agenda. First, Mr Tomáš Vy Vymazal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, the media went through another case of cannabis production, for which the grower was punished by imprisonment for a longer period of time than, for example, if he had sexually abused the child. Considering that cannabis cultivation is a victimless crime, this is an absurd situation. I would therefore like to propose a firm inclusion of an amendment to the Act on addictive substances, which has been in the House for a year and a half and which addresses this problem. Let me quickly state several reasons why this topic is relevant at the time of the fight against coronavirus. The current social cost of combating illegal drugs is estimated to be 15 billion. CZK per year and 20% of that goes to cannabis, so about 3 billion. Crowns. Most of this amount consists of crimes and offences involving small quantities. Thus, an estimate could save the state at least 2 billion per year. CZK, if it would stop the criminalisation of domestic growers. In the post-crisis period that awaits us, we will need to save money wherever possible, and the funds saved will need to be poured into the start of the economy and upgrade of health care or social services. Here's our chance. Moreover, cannabis farmers who do not end up in prison will continue to be an active part of the labour market, which we will now have to pamper. Putting an end to the repression of self-cannabis farmers would also generally make prison sentences for other offences more effective. The tutors would have more time for the perpetrators of more serious crimes, which would lead to a lower relapse and thus further savings in the future. Any person who is no longer required to be held prisoner and can return to the labour market will be paid twice as much. Moreover, the discussion of this amendment to the Act on addictive substances would allow the rules for the treatment of technical cannabis, whose broader industrial use was discussed at a seminar that took place here two months ago. The regulation of technical cannabis is still very strict in Europe. Thus, if we adjust the rules for processing it in time, technical cannabis may become a similar significant source of revenue to the state budget, as is the case in Switzerland or Italy. And that would certainly not hurt the Czech economy to restart. To sum up, there's somewhere on the sidewalk between three and five billion crowns. Just cancel the ban on activities that have zero social harm and there is no need to change the criminal code. At the same time, I realize that there are things that rush more, so I just need to discuss it on Friday. Therefore, I would like to propose a firm inclusion of 331 Parliamentary press on Friday 24 April as the first item of the sitting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Next to the agenda of the meeting, Mr Stanislav Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose to include a new item in this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, namely the Request of the Police of the Czech Republic for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mrs Karla Maříková. This is a continuation of the negotiations that have already been interrupted. And let me propose this point firmly on Thursday this week on April 22nd after written interpelations. [[right 23 April]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. For the sake of clarity, we will be voting on the new item in the Gremial Block and then we would vote on your firm inclusion. I think this is totally voteable. Mr. Faltýnek is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr President. Allow me just a few small points to return to today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. There I at least left with a feeling, and so I informed my colleagues from our club at the club meeting that we had more or less agreed that this week we would only discuss essential matters related to the crisis situation of the coronavirus, and these are the laws sent by the government in a state of legislative emergency and refund from the Senate. And then we all accepted the request of the opposition parties to discuss two points, and one of them, as the House President here said, in the Grimary's proposal, the debate with the government - and I asked our ministers to be here when that point was discussed, about the gradual easing of the economy. The proposed point by Mr Jurečka, who here proposed as information about helping businessmen etc., can certainly be brought to this point. And the second point required by the opposition - Government information on the purchase of protective equipment in an emergency. So I'd just like to ask and appeal to the effort to make a deal that was on the Gremium in the morning to try to keep it up, and the other things that can withstand a week's delay have already been discussed in a variable week in half the format that we discussed on the Gremium. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. I have registered President Jurečka with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for this helpful comment, but I confess, I do not fully understand one thing. We are gathered here today in practically full number as the Chamber of Deputies. We want society to gradually start working fully in the process of dispersing. And last week the committees also acted in full. I confess, I no longer see the logical reason why we have a home office in the House in some semi-scheme, and for myself and KDU-ČSL I say that we are ready to act this week until Friday. There's a lot of other agenda that's been standing here for weeks, months, and it's very important to the citizens of this state. The question of executions, insolvencys that were discussed here 14 days ago, and so on. So I would really appeal to us to reconsider, to have this week as we can, and I don't see any reason why we're only here on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays and Fridays to go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. If no one with priority rights applies, Mr Jiří Mihola is next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u24	Hello. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to ask for a new point of information from the Government on the clarification of the regime at border crossing points with neighbouring countries and a proposal for a solution to the exceptions enabling necessary economic, scientific and research cooperation and cooperation in the field of education. It is clear to me here, following my colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová, or to others, that there would be a real mixed debate that those points concerning the border regime could be combined. But I'm pointing at my point explicitly on the scientific community, universities, teachers and students, Erasmus-type cooperation, international conferences, etc., etc. I firmly believe that we could find a match between all the clubs, because if I look right over the center to the left, then in all the clubs, as far as I know, there's someone who works actively, not that he's emeritus, but actively in a university environment or in a scientific environment, and I'm sure you also have a number of students in the family that are also directly involved. And that thing, it's not an academic debate now, what if. This thing's in a hurry, it's bound up in some way. And the current situation, actually colleague Pekarová Adamová, pointed out - we understand the extraordinary situation and the various extraordinary solutions and procedures. But we have to remove it as soon as possible so that one human right is broken with another human right. And here it actually connects, too, with the university's issues of economic, economic. [[14.50 hours]] I will say this briefly on the example of Masaryk University, but I would like to point out that I dare speak for all universities, that they are all concerned, they all have foreign students or they are sending their students abroad. So just to realize that at Masaryk University in Brno, of those 31 406 students are 7 043 foreign and of that Slovák are 17 %, i.e. 5 263, other foreigners 1 780. From the point of view not only of Masaryk University, but I dare say all Czech universities, Moravian and Silesian also, so that someone doesn't feel sorry, it is highly desirable that existing students can continue their studies while ensuring that admission procedures can also take place for other foreign students joining the academic year 2020/2021. In doing so, it is necessary to take account of the potential negative effects on the labour market and the management of the University. I would point out that this concerns a lot, above all, medical faculties. In Brno, a large part of the medical faculty consists of foreign students, especially Slovák, but also the Faculty of Informatics and others. At this point, the current number of applications submitted to study only at Masaryk University from Slovakia is more than 4,000. Without foreign students, Masaryk University will face an economic downturn of over CZK 200 million per year, which cannot be compensated from other sources. And in a very similar situation there are many other universities, whether Charles University, Palacký University and others. I'm saying I don't want to leave anyone out. [[There's noise in the room.]] Mr President, may I ask...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u25	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the Chamber. If something is really so necessary that you have to discuss it, please go to the lobby. Allow your colleagues to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u26	This is where the appeal came early. It refers to the month of May, June and the following. And it can't be postponed. I have already stressed here in a previous performance that these students of foreigners need to be treated in a similar way to the so-called pendlers. The universities have actually submitted a proposal for communication on how to proceed and how to treat it in order to comply with all hygiene, health regulations, so that this thing is not on some thin ice or cause harm to someone else. So it's a sophisticated model, and it needs to be moved as soon as possible. For Masaryk University, I can say this explicitly, but I believe that others are prepared for intensive communication and cooperation in handling this situation. At the same time, I draw attention to the far-reaching negative effects that can be expected if these steps do not start to be prepared and implemented immediately, and for a long time thereafter, of course, after the epidemic has subsided, they may then have a negative effect on universities. So when the Minister of Education made sure it was being done, I'm glad. I thank him for that remotely. But at this point, I don't see it as a satisfactory output. We just need to know more. We need to know the concrete steps, because this is a really serious situation. The efforts of KDU-ČSL and other parties were already under discussion when the emergency was extended. Remember, there were proposals for accompanying resolutions. My fellow pirates and I presented it. Unfortunately, none of these accompanying resolutions have been passed. And you can't accept that. So at this point, I believe that we're going to join forces, as I said, across the party, and this is going to apply to specific people, and we're going to place this point. I'm gonna ask for a solid assignment. Either I see the solution to link it to the point proposed by Mrs Pekarová Adamová, the first point, or the points already firmly placed. But please don't push it away, it's really not something that can take a rain check. On the contrary, it is necessary to move forward and I would like to call on the relevant ministries - the Ministry of Education, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Health to do so, and, of course, in cooperation with the entire government of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention and I beg you to support this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Well, the proposal to combine it with the proposal of the Member is difficult to vote on. She specifically suggested Tuesday 21. 4th as the first point, the cross-border one. That means it would be the first point today. So you're suggesting this one's second? [[Yes.]] Okay. That's voteable. Today's the second point. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of the government, colleagues, I will disappoint Mr Mihola, I will not support that point, nor our club. We made some kind of deal. We'll hold her. That's our standard procedure. If we make it, we're holding it. It may be that we don't make a deal, then each of us makes his own paths, that's perfectly legitimate. Indeed, this point and many of the points that have been raised can be part of the government's information on the unwinding of restrictive measures, as I called the point, and I was glad that we agreed on the Gremium that we would be discussing this. Here, in general, there has been a belief that we will resolve something through the accompanying resolution to the law. Take a look at the outcome of the accompanying resolutions that we have historically approved. Totally useless. If we need anything today, he needs to pass legislation in a legislative emergency. We need to decide whether there is a better Senate or House version. Now I'm not gonna make arguments in favor of one or the other, I'm gonna save that for the individual points. And then, fortunately, the two points on which we agreed on the Gremium are crucial, that is, the information of the government and the debate of all of us on the gradual unwinding of restrictive steps, including foreign students, including Pendlers, including opening times, etc., including the regime in schools. It's all hiding at this point. The ministers will be here. I see no reason now to place a point for the Minister of Education, who is excused. I listened to the apologies for today. So what's the point if the Minister of Education is excused? So please be reasonable and rational. Let's discuss what we can't put up with, including those two points where we can actually - and where else besides here - solve our problems. I'm signing what President Jurečka said. Those problems are serious. But I think there's plenty of room on those points where we agreed on the Gremium. And I support what he said because he's absolutely right. And the amendment that we voted on here at the Osvs was wrong. We've drawn many attention to this. Then let's get back to it when the time comes. We are prepared to deal with this within the framework of the new bills, to bring in such bills, not only to criticize the government, that is wrong, but to propose to all of us a solution to correct that mistake. So for us, we're gonna keep the deal, and we're gonna vote in favour of the big deal. For all the others, we'll stick around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Information for colleagues who are reporting with a factual remark at the moment. We are not in the debate, we are discussing the agenda of the meeting, factual remarks are not possible. Which reminds me, however, that we didn't specifically address the Gremium, but I assume that where the short-term negotiations are decided, there is still a gentleman's agreement that we can do without factual remarks. If anyone else has an opinion on this, please meet the club presidents on this subject and agree on what will happen. I automatically assume that there is a gentleman's agreement on factual remarks. Next in the debate is Mr Martin Kolovratník. At this point... It is, it's coming. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'm so sorry for the delay. Colleagues and colleagues, please for the Election Commission, for a firm inclusion of a new point. The elections will not be tomorrow, they are planned for the variable week, but at the request of the SPD club there was a request for changes in the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies. One change is made there, today the electoral commission per rollam has accepted the change, so I would ask for a firm inclusion of this electoral point of change in the House's bodies, it is the vote of acclamation, as the first point in the election block. And at this point, it would be up to that variable week, for that Wednesday, if the election takes place at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. Next up, Mr Lipavský is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u32	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we include a point of Government Information on the planned rescue of ČSA and that we include it tomorrow. I am based on the adoption of the proposal of the Gremium, i.e. for the two informative points of the afternoon, I hope I have the right wording for the Government's information on the purchase of protective equipment. Mr President, I hope that this is sufficient to make this a voteable proposal. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] President Faltýnek has called for us to discuss matters related to the coronation, and this clearly relates to the coronation, because the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance is referring to this as one of the proposed rescue measures and argues that it is a strategic enterprise. ČSA is not a strategic enterprise. They are small airlines with a lousy reputation, unfortunately it is no longer the family silver they once were, after the managerial interventions of the current Chinese state employee Jaroslav Tvrdík and a member of our Central Crisis Staff. That's a pretty big shame, too. That's argument number one. Another argument is that the shareholders who own ČSA have their own funds from which they can try to save the company, so it is not necessary for it to go from the Czech budget, from the money of Czech taxpayers, which is either collected from taxes, or from which the Czech state will now borrow, so I would consider it very immoral. I would like the government to present to us here how it communicates, what it intends to do, how it wants to finance it, how it is intended at all, what national development fund and why it prefers not to use the money for something else. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík is next in the debate. I mean, not in the debate, on the agenda, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to initiate the call from the Chamber of Deputies to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to ask, at European Council level, the European Commission to investigate the factors that led to the emergence of the pandemic, as well as to examine misleading information on the new Coronavirus COVID-19. I am led by both the seriousness of the situation, which will have a massive impact on the world economy, politics and society, and information showing serious errors in the Chinese government. Research shows that such a massive spread might not have occurred if China had taken the necessary measures in time. If intervention measures had been taken three weeks earlier, the impact of the pandemic could have been up to 95 percent lower according to qualified estimates. It didn't happen. By the time the 11-million-dollar Wu-chan, the outbreak of the primary contagion, had been closed, the city had already left several million inhabitants who, as part of the enormous migration around China's main New Year holidays, headed for their families all over China and abroad, or set off on a holiday trip around the world. And it is these passengers that caused the pandemic. For a long time, China has been spreading misinformation that the virus is not transmitted from human to human. On 31 December 2019, the Taiwan Center for Disease Control informed the World Health Organization of the contrary. China has reduced the number of infected and the number of victims. This led to a number of states introducing restrictive measures corresponding to the gravity of the situation much later than would be necessary. On 31 March, Dr. Birxová, the coordinator of the US administration for coronavirus, stated that a consistent analysis of Chinese statistics by her team shows that coronavirus will not have a greater impact than the virus causing SARS. That was when SARS affected up to 8,000 people in 26 states between 2002 and 2003, so it is very little against today's condition. But it's obvious that Chinese statistics didn't match the facts this time. The World Health Organization is very likely co-responsible for the development of the global crisis. Its director underestimated the situation and provided the public with incomplete and unverified information about the virus at the time of its spread in China. In mid-January, the World Health Organization referred to new coronavirus as a global threat only as a medium threat, only on Monday 20 January 2020, it changed the assessment to a very high risk within China and a high risk worldwide. The Director-General of the World Health Organization, who was in Beijing in January, expressed his full confidence in the Chinese government that he would be able to handle the epidemic on his own. As we all saw, his trust was not justified. [[There's still a lot of restlessness in the room.]] For these reasons, I demand a thorough examination of the reasons leading to the pandemic and an analysis of the impact of Chinese propaganda on our situation. The consequences of the pandemic will be health, economic and social. The main aim of the examination is not to scare China, but to teach the international community that will increase its resilience in the future. If we simply fail to come up with what has happened, why it has happened and who has neglected, we will not be able to set up mechanisms to minimize or prevent risk in the future. So I propose that we place a point at the Chamber of Deputies meeting to investigate the circumstances of the emergence and spread of a pandemic of coronavirus at an international level, under which I would propose a resolution, where we would call on the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to initiate such an investigation within the European Union. I propose to include this point as the first one after the fixed points of this House meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u35	Meaning today's fixed ranks? Thank you. Next is Mr. Jiří Bláha. I'm gonna read an apology. On 21 and 22 he apologizes for family reasons from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Lukáš Kolářík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I am standing here as a petitioner who would like to firmly include an extraordinary point called Changing the employment support settings Antivirus, Mode A and B. I guess some of you know why I'm here. For those who don't know, I'll just remind you. The designers did not count on the activity of our entrepreneurs when drawing up the rules for Antivirus A and B, forgetting that companies, although closed, continued to save raw materials to save cooked food, to open mass windows, other companies closed their seats and sold further for change, and other companies were forced to sell because they did not have the opportunity to close businesses, but still had to take a number of sanitary measures, including the order of all customers, so that they were forced to have more people to work than in normal operation. And we forgot about these people because all those who work daily at zero profit, often with zero revenue, are not entitled to the koruna of employment support as proposed today. Only those who stay at home are entitled to support, that is, those who go on trips, enjoy their vacations. So they all get paid. But those who stand by the windows, you meet them in stores that are open but without customers, so all of these will not get support or a crown. It would be very good for me not only to place this point firmly, but to debate responsibly, to show the way of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, how the matter could be dealt with so that all those who remained open and do not know the rules of the Employment Act, which prescribes another thousand rules on how to behave, such as. the fact that hours late for work must be evaluated after a week, and once you have missed less than eight hours in a week, it does not fall within any of the programmes. At the moment you have five hours and ten hours one week, you can only include the ten hours you missed. So I would be very happy to discuss all this, to say what the problems are in individual regions, towns and villages. And in order to preserve today's diversity of specials and various small entrepreneurs who are based in cities that are empty today, it would be appropriate not only to place this point firmly, but to place it as the first point in today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík also applied to the agenda for the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I have a request for either you or President Faltýnek to clarify today's procedure, because there has been a bit of confusion at our club as a result of the fact that we first agreed on the Committee on Budgets that we will discuss the press in an emergency situation on Wednesday night, and from this we have come to the conclusion that the meeting will continue on Thursday and Friday, so that we will subsequently know that it will meet on Tuesday night. However, I still don't know when you're planning to include those prints 830 and others, especially the one-off bonus, etc., when it's supposed to be in the program. For me, extending the one-off bonus is a clear priority, and I'm sure we'll be helping the government to discuss this as soon as possible. But I wanted to make a proposal on this, but I'm more likely to wait for what the government coalition is proposing on this matter. But we'd like to know if it's Wednesday morning or Thursday, or what the plan is, how it's all supposed to happen. And for that reason, we also proposed those points on Friday. The second thing is that we didn't know that there really was a variable week planned. So if it is, of course, it's partly changing the situation. Otherwise, the opinion of the Pirates Club is that we want to discuss priority points as soon as possible, and if we exhaust them, we are ready to discuss other things, but we are open to agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Before I give the floor with priority rights to President Stanjur, I'm just being informative. On the basis of the Grémia agreement, I referred in writing to President Vostroa, who has already answered me in writing that she understands this and that the Committee on Budgets will be convened instead of Wednesday at 19.00 today. I assume the invitation's arrived. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor. Part of the proposal from the Gremium is that these points, the five laws in the legislative emergency that arrived yesterday, will be discussed tomorrow after we discuss the Senate's vomit. It's hard to tell if it's gonna be morning or afternoon, depending on when and how quickly the House will deal with the seven laws that are either rejected or returned to the Senate. I understand the proposal from the Gremium that we will discuss these four points immediately after them. That's why I suggested that the committees take place today. The next procedure has already been commented by President Vondráček. I have one request. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman Vondráček, I haven't been able to pick up the order of those Senate returns. I have one procedural motion for the Chamber of Deputies to allow the President of the National Budget Board, as was the case in the Senate, to appear on the bill that the Senate rejected. She wasn't here originally in the House. I think it would be good for her to get that space. And since I do not know exactly what point it is, and we also need to tell her, if necessary, to come here, I would ask when the debate on the draft programme is over, so that we vote that on this point, the Chamber of Deputies will allow the President of the National Budget Board to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. It's true that given the length of the Gremia, we didn't get to this, so we didn't get to the bottom of it. Noted. Please, we are discussing the agenda of the meeting, who wants to speak, proposes a point, we cannot engage in any debate here - that is for Mr Ferjenčík, who is not given priority rights. Would you like to suggest a new point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u42	First of all, I would like to clarify the question - and I will propose a point in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure - what happens if we fail to discuss the laws put forward in an emergency state by Wednesday, 19.00. We'd like to know whether it's clear whether there's a meeting by 7:00 or 7:00 or Thursday or Friday. And for this reason, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I propose the inclusion of a one-off bonus on Wednesday as the first point firmly, possibly on behalf of my colleague Jurečka's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u43	Well, thank you. I'm just gonna ask, really, you have two deputies on the Gremium where we're dealing with this, so we can't get it straight again, so there's some mechanisms that work here. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. The third time I'm going to appeal to our agreement from the morning grémia, I'm going to tell my colleague Ferjenčík that if we don't make it by 7:00 tomorrow, maybe we can make it by 8:00 or 9:00 or 10:00. We didn't agree on that when we were gonna end it. Today, I came up with a proposal for a grémium to negotiate by 21 today, and we finally agreed that by 19 for committees to be able to discuss things. So I'm an optimist for myself, and I believe that when we finally start discussing these laws, time will show that we are able to approve it by the end of tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. On the agenda of the meeting from the post of Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment, if so. support or not support for the KSČM club proposal to include a new point from Mr Mihola, who talks about foreign students at Czech universities. You know, this could be part of the government's position, but it must also be said that the government of the Czech Republic has allowed us opposition parties to have their representative on the Central Crisis Staff. You, Mr President, have a representative there, and there is a point at this meeting that concerns this, I have had him put there, and it concerns not only foreign students from Slovakia but also from third countries. And we don't just need to know that information from the Ministry of Education, but also from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we also need to know the date when the representative authorities will start accepting visa applications, and the time of May is just bordering on the academic year 2020-2020 to start in September or, if you like, October. But it is not only about universities, it is also about language schools. And you have also mentioned a doctor through the President, and I know, for example, that over 20 doctors should have arrived from the countries of the former Soviet Union, especially Ukraine, and you should have started language courses to get into our hospitals, and unfortunately, we have to postpone this. So let's let the Central Crisis Staff discuss this at tomorrow morning's meeting, nor do I prevent us from having another government opinion at the next meeting of the variable week on the loosening up, or on the other measures to be taken. So for us, we can't support your proposal at this point, because this thing is going to be dealt with on the Central Crisis Staff tomorrow, and you have your deputy there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. It's nice of you to comment on the point, but again, at this stage, everyone should either design or not get off. Let us respect the Rules of Procedure, especially when we are in an emergency, we are sitting here 200 and otherwise there are people two meters apart throughout the Republic. Thank you. Anyone else on the agenda? This is not the case, so we would deal gradually with individual proposals as they were said. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. First of all, we would vote on the Gremial proposal as a whole, by one vote, including the formal proposal pursuant to Section 12, that the item on extradition or extradition by the President will be included. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number three. It's registered 189, for 178, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the individual proposals, as President Pekarová Adamová made them. First, it proposes the inclusion of a new point - limiting the cross-border movement of citizens of the Czech Republic at a time of emergency. First of all, the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number four. Registered 188, for 38, versus 3. This proposal was adopted. We will no longer vote on solid inclusion. Next thing you know... it's happened about the third time in my career, I'm sorry, I think it's not what I'm saying. [[Fun in the hall.]] Two. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the preparation of the so-called "smart quarantine." A new point proposed by President Pekarová Adamová. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number five. Registered 189, for 39, versus 2. The motion was denied. We will not vote on a solid classification. Furthermore, there is a proposal that we put press 536 on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, namely the amendment to the correspondence election, as the first item on Friday 24. 4. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6. At the moment, 190 Members are registered, for 39, against 4. The motion was denied. Furthermore, there is the proposal by Vice-President Okamura to include a new point - the announcement of a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. Classification of the new item. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7. It's registered 190, for 28, against 93. The motion was not accepted. We will not vote on a solid classification. There is also a proposal from President Jurečka, the inclusion of a new item Current Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on measures to help companies and businessmen, whether I have marked this correctly. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8. It's registered 189, for 41, against no one. The motion was not accepted. In addition, there is a proposal from Mr Vyzela on the solid classification of press 331, paragraph 97, amendment to the Act on addictive substances, on Friday 24. 4th as the first point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number nine. It's registered 190, 21, versus 41. The motion was denied. Furthermore, there is Mr Grospič's proposal that we place Mrs Maříková's new item on the issue of the criminal prosecution on Thursday 23. 4. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10. Registered is 190, for 31, against 2. This proposal was rejected. Furthermore, there is Mr Mihola's proposal, the inclusion of a new point in the Government's information on the regime on the state border in the matter of scientific cooperation, if possible, because the written invitation differed a little bit and what the Member said, but we know what we are voting on. He's proposing a new point. First of all, the inclusion of a new point. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11. Registered is 190, for 38, versus 3. The motion was denied. Mr Kolovratník's proposal is also here that, as the first point in the election block, we should include a point of change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies as the first point in the variable week. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12. There are 190 Members registered, for 176, against no one. This proposal was adopted. [[15.30 hours]] There is also Mr Lipavský proposal for the ranking of a new item Information of the Government for the planned rescue of ČSA. Who's in? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? The number 13 vote is 189, for 40, against 7. The motion was not accepted, it was rejected. There is also Mr Benešík's proposal to include a new point, which he called, perhaps, well noted, an examination of the circumstances of the emergence of a worldwide pandemic and a follow-up call to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 14, 190 Members are enrolled, for 38, against 209. The motion was not accepted. We will not vote on solid inclusion. There is also Mr Bláha's proposal to include a new point - a change in the setting of Antivirus A and B. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for this point. Who's against it? The number 15 vote is 190, for 46, against no one. This proposal was rejected. We will not vote on solid inclusion. There is also Mr Ferjenčík's proposal that we put the 830 press in the context of the individual proposals in the accelerated procedure as the first in the block. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? The number 16 vote is 190, for 38, against 7. The motion was denied. Since Mr. Ondráček didn't suggest a point, we didn't... [[Objection that there is a need to vote on the presentation of the President of the Budget Board, Mrs Zamrazil.]] I just didn't know how to take it, Mr President, the vote. I assumed that, on the one hand, there was still room for an agreement on participation, because we did not discuss it, and then we would vote before that point - the participation of the President of the Budget Board. Please, you have the floor with priority rights. Because it's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u48	I know it isn't, but since the President is not a member of the Chamber of Deputies, if I get the assurance that we're gonna approve it then, it's okay, we don't have to vote on it now. Otherwise, it's just a decision whether he should come or not. That wouldn't hurt a little dignity given the potential guests. I just want to remind you that when we were discussing the CNB law, of course, the governor was here, and he argued very strongly in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u49	I totally agree with you. It is about some correctness of communication, but I think we need to vote before the item, not on the agenda. That's more of a formal matter. Therefore, if there is no objection, we would now vote on the agenda of the 45th meeting as a whole. Mr Ferjenčík has an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u50	I object. I think it is quite appropriate that we vote on Mrs Zamrazilová's participation now so that she can actually prepare for her arrival. So I object to your action, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u51	All I have is a purely logical reminder. If we do not approve the agenda of the meeting, then why have we voted on the President's presence? There will really be room for a calm vote before the point, and I hope that the club presidents will sort it out in the meantime. There. We are voting on the approval of the agenda as a whole. [[Votes to vote on the objection submitted.]] So you object to the way in which the meeting is held. We will therefore vote on Mr Ferjenčík's objection. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 17 registered 190, for 59, against 92. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the agenda for the 45th meeting as a whole. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote number 18 is 190, for 172, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the draft agenda has been approved and the agenda has been approved. Thank you. It worked almost exactly, so I'm handing over the meeting's management and we're going to proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-000-000.u52	Good afternoon, honourable Members. We will continue our afternoon negotiations and the first item of our agenda is:
