ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-007-068.u1	68. Government Bill on Recording of Real Owners / House Print 886/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will gradually be introduced by Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. So first, Mrs. Justice Minister Marie Benešová. Please take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-007-068.u2	Thank you for the floor. So this government proposal follows up on the previous one, which you have just released, and it is also a transposition law, which unfortunately should have been discussed a long time ago, the transposition period has expired 6. 1. 2020. I'm specifically pointing that out. This bill, its aim first and foremost is to properly transpose into the Czech legal system new requirements concerning the registration of real owners according to the so-called 5. The AML Directive and in this context revise the relevant transposition of the amended Directive. The fundamental changes brought about by the directive are the requirement for the public to have at least some information on the beneficial owners, the introduction of a verification mechanism and the checking of the accuracy of the data contained in the records and the establishment of effective sanctions. The new requirements of European law largely change the overall context of the actual owner's institute and its registration and increase its importance. It is crucial that the concept of the real owner be defined precisely in the law and to reflect the requirements of European law. Centralised records can then be quickly and efficiently communicated and collected. I will therefore ask for the release of this material for the first reading, because, as I have already said, on 6. 1. 2020 has expired the transposition period. And then the proposal was withdrawn because of the coronavirus crisis and renegotiated after the crisis had subsided. The Government's Legislative Council passed 19. 2. 2020 without any problems and recommended its approval to this government. As regards the contested point, the contested section 5 para. 4 proposals, so this is not an exception, but a specification. We modified this right at the Justice Department. This is an expert assessment. And if one of the Members here is thinking of releasing it, if you release it, calmly, the meaning will be the same, because we will come to the same conclusion then by interpretation. It's a material refinement about meaning, not about individuals. That's probably all I wanted to say to begin with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-007-068.u3	There. I have received information from the Minister of Finance that he is no longer interested in speaking, because the Minister of Justice has already said everything, so please let the rapporteur take the first reading, Mr František Navrkal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-007-068.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, following the Minister, I would like to add some information as rapporteur on the proposal. As the Minister has already said, we should have implemented the directive this January, but today we have 7 July and the government bill is still going through the first reading. This significant delay was mainly due to the lengthy creation of the bill and the several recasting of its wording. The changes concerned, for example, the definition of the beneficial owner of companies placed in trust funds, to which both experts and directly the Government's compatibility department and the Government's Legislative Council had reservations. However, I do not want to burden you with the details of the drafting of the bill. What is important is the current text on which we are to comment. The Real Owner Recording Act works with key concepts and their definitions. The most important is, of course, the real owner, which is generally built in accordance with the model of the relevant directive on material terms, and the real owner is considered to be the end-user or end-effector. [[definition?]] The final beneficiary shall be a person who may obtain more than 25 per cent of the total benefit of the legal person. In the case of commercial corporations, a natural person with a direct or indirect right to a share of the benefit of a commercial corporation shall be considered as the final beneficiary. A person with the ultimate influence of a corporation is a natural person with a direct or indirect share of voting rights that significantly exceeds the share of voting rights of other persons, in particular if it is greater than 25 per cent. The proposal also deals with other specific cases. Among them is the identification of real owners of legal arrangements, respectively. trust funds. Here, the appellants use a formal concept which, for example, identifies as the real owner of the legal arrangement as its founder, trust administrator or imagined. However, this formal concept is not used by the petitioners to determine the actual owner of the companies entered into trust funds and, instead, § 5 para. 4 refers to the material criteria applicable to the determination of the actual owner of the corporation. This has also been said by the Minister. Although the directive itself does not directly say how to look at the cases where the corporation's share is managed in legal order, it is generally true that the material concept makes the disclosure of ownership structures more complicated than the formal concept. Doubts about the consistency of two different approaches to determining the actual owner of the legal arrangement and the corporations included in them have also been expressed by the government's compatibility department. In its opinion of 13 January 2020, he stated that in this case he was more inclined to apply the formal criteria applicable to the legal arrangement. A similar conclusion was reached by the Parliamentary Institute, which states in its analysis - I quote: "The interpretation leading to the use of so-called. the material criterion for determining the beneficial owner of a legal person in a legal arrangement necessarily means a compromise compared to an attempt by another legislature to respond to a lower transparency of certain legal arrangements.' End of quote. The draft law also remembers the detection of real ownership within complex ownership structures, where the acquisition of benefits or application of influence is carried out indirectly. In the description of these complicated links, the terms of chaining and branching are used, with chaining thinking of obtaining the benefit or application of the influence of the media on each other or of successive relationships. It is branching if the gain or application of influence is realized through more chaining. Furthermore, the law addresses in particular the issue of published data, access to the records of beneficial owners and, last but not least, penalties for non-compliance. The Organizing Committee has proposed the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-07-ps2017-054-01-007-068.u5	So I'm opening up a general debate that I don't have anyone registered to, so I'll see if anybody's checking in. No one's reporting, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary Benešová, Minister Schillerová - you are not interested. And the rapporteur, Mr Navrkal. You're not interested. So now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Anyone knocking? Yeah, well, you're knocking on time. So we're gonna press here, so I'm gonna check you all out and log in again... see how disciplined we are. There. I checked you out, please log in with your voting cards again. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see any motion, so we'll proceed to the vote. I'd rather go on. So who agrees that the motion put forward should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? (This is vote number 24. On the light board lights up: Pro 126, versus 0.) I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see another proposal, so I'm ending the first reading of this press. This has exhausted the agenda for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 tomorrow and have a nice evening.
