ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and some other laws / House print 910/ - third reading I will ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Member of Miloslava Vostrá, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 910/2, which was delivered on 30 October. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 910/3. I am now asking the appellant whether she is interested in speaking before the opening of the debate at third reading. Madam Secretary is interested in a performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. [[The President]] I will not speak for long, we are at third reading, everything essential I think has been said, and if not, it will be said today in the debate. I have said here several times that the Ministry of Finance sent a package to Parliament, which was slightly fiscally positive. In the meantime, of course, we have an unprecedented economic crisis here. A number of amendments have been read and you will decide on them today. Some of them, and I say this quite frankly, have my support, which I will express openly before my own vote. You will decide on the so-called abolition of a super-gross wage, which, of course, is a technique, I will no longer recall the historical convention, but you will decide on essentially the biggest tax reduction in modern history. Reduction of taxes, which - I am thinking specifically of the amendment by Andrej Babiš as a Member - income taxes to 15 and 23 %, which is a reduction for most employees in this country. There are 4.5 million of them, and only 80,000 of them have income above four times the average wage, which means plus minus 140 thousand. So for most of them, you decide on 15% taxation, which are thousands of crowns at a time when wages will not grow in the national economy, as well as in the private sector as in the public sector, because I proposed for the draft state budget, and you know that, except for teachers, that the wages of public sector employees as such should be frozen. So the only thing people are going to have is this money from the income tax reduction to 15 percent. It's about 7 percent of gross income, 5% of net income, thousands of crowns, and we'll support the economy at a time when it needs it most. At the same time, I would like to point out that all the amendments, and I will support others that have been read, such as accelerated depreciation, we have technically worked on them as the Ministry, and others, which means that all the proposals that I support, so I am convinced that they will help the economy, will help companies. But I really want to warn you about one thing again, and I believe you'll understand. All the parliamentary proposals have implications, those that I have talked about, which I will support, and, if necessary, which I will not support and pass, so they have a negative impact on public budget revenues, and therefore make it significantly more difficult to draw up the state budget in the years to come. And if it were not approved by the parliamentary proposal by Andrej Babiš as a Member as a whole, that is to say, including the disbanding of fiscal rules, it would have the consequences, because those amendments reduce the revenue of the state budget, so expenditure would have to be reduced without exceeding the maximum possible deficit at the same time. Which would mean that the tens of billions that we will now give to our employees, for example, as a result of a reduction in income tax, if the Chamber of Deputies decided to approve this proposal, we would have to cut off the expenditure side, which would mean another, even deeper crisis, which would have awaited us in the coming years. Already today, the medium-term outlook is set up on a maximum of frameworks, which means there is no room, not even for unexpected additional expenditures or lower revenues, so any lower revenue of the state budget must be compensated by a fall in expenditure. And it's not gonna be easy for it to be social spending. This means that salaries are also not a solution, both because we have proposed freezing and because of the volume of available cuts. So basically, it would lead to major projects being limited, investment would be limited, that is, all things that are unacceptable, because you know that, on the contrary, our government is trying to promote both consumption and support investment that is proposed in budget 2021 as record-breaking. So I would like to point out that any proposal, any proposal from the Members' workshop, is a necessary condition, in order for fiscal rules to be dissolved, otherwise any approval of these amendments is essentially impossible without having these fatal consequences in the years to come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I am opening the debate, I had the first Prime Minister's application, but he apologized, he is not here, then he volunteered before the meeting, Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček, and President Jurečka volunteered from the place, all of this priority rights. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to comment in the debate on this bill, or on one thing that is perhaps the most medially interesting. As much as it is a number of tax adjustments, the amendments that address the abolition of the supergross wage have probably attracted the greatest attention. I want to make it clear that this government coalition, when it began its cooperation, agreed that super gross wages is injustice, that it is something that is a relic of former right-wing governments. We don't have to go into history now, why it lasted so long and hasn't been canceled before. Anyway, there's been a deal to cancel the super gross wage. And, of course, we respect what we signed, so we agree that the supergross wage should be abolished. The government's programming statement goes on. It even says how it will be cancelled, which means it will be cancelled at rates of 19 and 23 %. There have been some negotiations within the coalition, the Prime Minister proposed even more radical tax reductions this summer, which was commented on by the Minister of Finance, the figure being 15 and 23. We discussed this, the social democracy expressed its preliminary consent in the summer, and on this we agreed with the Prime Minister that we would be subject to some kind of control in terms of the state budget and its condition. I remind you, that was in the summer when we were all full of optimism and we thought that we had the worst of our lives and that that autumn would be a sign of some economic recovery and that we would just get out of the problems that we got to in the spring thanks to the covid. [[19.20 hours]] At the same time, of course, as a social democracy, we have pointed out once again that there is a great deal of room on the revenue side of the state budget, because this is our endless debate where we say that in principle we agree on what the government is supposed to do, what quality of public services it is intended to provide, but we have a bit of a contradiction in whether it is funded or not. And it turns out that social democracy is more right and that the problems with financing the public service portfolio are beginning to be here. So we have offered several recipes, including such a popular sector tax. Of course, it came across our coalition partner's opposition again, but that's the thing we have tried. So there was some meeting going on, of course there was a second wave. And we are in a situation where, if the Prime Minister insists on his proposal that he wants to reduce taxes this forcefully, beyond the programming declaration, and at the same time the Ministry of Finance has stated that he is not willing, capable or that it is simply impossible to find those 90 billion missing from the revenue side, so find them somewhere else, so the only way to ensure what the Minister of Finance has described here is to borrow the massive distribution of money to citizens. So the result of the Prime Minister's approval will be that the state will borrow $90 billion. More. I've only thought he'd borrow them twice. Because the whole debate was on the level that it was for two years. That's how it was dealt with by Mr. President. So the bill for this operation is going to be 180 billion. Give or take. Problem is, it's not in the law anywhere. The law doesn't say it's a two-year tax change. The law doesn't say that after two years the rates will be 19, 23 or anything else. That means it's not 180 billion, it's 90 billion. Every year, I fall until some House of Deputies meets to change the law. I've been in politics for a long time, and I've experienced things, and I have a very vivid imagination. But the idea that in 2022 the Chamber of Deputies will meet in principle shortly before the end of the year and announce that it raises citizens by 4 percentage points of tax, so it is more from the fictional realm. So from my point of view, what this House is voting for today will apply. Not forever, but definitely longer than two years. And that's a problem from my point of view, because the 180 billion, well, that's probably possible, even if it's unimaginable to me. But just cutting the budget by 90 in the long run every year is a problem from my point of view. And I understand that citizens may not care about the first. Of course, it is attractive for them to look at the payroll and be glad to say that they have added a few hundred, with low-income ones, several thousand for those who have between 80 and 100 thousand. A month. So I guess that's nice. The problem is when it turns out the 90 billion. is missing on a yearly basis. 90 billion. Every year, that's the Ministry of the Interior's budget. More than the Home Office's budget. And we just have some sort of public service standard. We as a state provide health, social services, security, education, etc. You all know what the state provides. And we keep that standard, and I think that, in terms of how we set taxes in the Czech Republic, the system of public services was very effective and very efficient. As soon as he's out 90 billion, he's not gonna be executive anymore. And then I ask what's next. From my point of view, that's the only thing that can happen. If the money doesn't go into that system, then either the services will get worse, which means the availability of healthcare, social care, security may fall. Or other sources will be found. And by other sources, I mean the involvement of private resources, that means privatization. I am not accusing or suspecting the YES movement because this has not been written anywhere in any programming document. In the case of ODS, which is now a great supporter of this proposal, this suspicion borders on certainty, because privatization of public services is something that the ODS vehemently supports. So from my point of view, it's a problem that we're gonna leave here for the next few years. And I'm concerned that the bill lacks the two-year limitation. From my point of view, this whole operation of abolishing a super-gross wage and some tax cuts, even the 19 percent I suggest is tax cuts, it's intended to get money to people and help them at a time when the economy needs to be stimulated in some way. That means the goal is to get the money into consumption. The problem is, as suggested by the Prime Minister, as well as by the University of Economics study, it doesn't meet the objective, because the most helpful ones are really the high-income, around 80 and 100 thousand. And of course, these people won't take the money right away and put it into consumption. The low-income ones do. Medium-income maybe, too. Those high-income guys are just gonna take it to the bank. So besides helping out, or voting in favour, helping the high-income, they're also helping the banks that put the money in their accounts, using them for their operations, of course, and increasing their profits, which are still small in the crisis. So from my point of view, this tactic does not lead to a targeted or desired goal. Therefore, I have proposed, combined with the 19- and 23-percent rate, an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer by CZK 2,400, which is the same amount for all taxpayers. Therefore, there is no discretion in terms of the level of income and the money will help these people. And once again, according to the opinions of relevant experts and economists, this combination is better in the direction of achieving the desired goal, that is to say, promoting consumption. It's a matter where we didn't agree as a government coalition. It's not that great. As soon as we are a minority government, no matter how much we make an agreement in the government, we still have to look for a compromise in the Chamber of Deputies, so it's not the first time or the last time. But this agreement did not really happen here, because social democracy simply cannot support a proposal that, from my point of view, is the fulfillment of a dream of equal taxation, a dream that Mirek Topolánek, Prime Minister Nečas, did not succeed with, so I am sorry, or as a Social Democrat, I am sorry that it is now coming and it will probably be achieved by the votes of YES, ODS and SPD. From my point of view, the variants that offer either social democracy or some others are better in the amendments and better meet the expectations that we all have of him. Of course, I am convinced that this speech of mine will not convince anyone, because the cards are already being dealt and the coalition is being built. But I wanted to draw attention to any risks that I see in this regard from the future of the state budget and from the point of view of the functioning of our company at all. I thought it was, and I still believe that we want to build a company that provides public services to its citizens in Germany rather than Romania. And there's just one thing that's clear. That we can't have German health services for Romanian taxes. Unfortunately, this is a step towards the fact that the taxes will be Romanian and, unfortunately, the public services can fall in this direction by their quality over time. And I hope none of us wanted that. I would like those public services to be more at the level of Germany. So that is why social democracy has put forward its own proposal. We'll vote on him. And, of course, the Chamber of Deputies will decide, and to some extent it will show how the cards are divided in this matter and who views the future of this state and what the state is supposed to provide for its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I have three factual points here. First, Mr Skopeček, then Madam Secretary, then Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. I understand that we will be different as right-wing ODS with left-wing social democracy in terms of taxes. But please, let's be precise and talk about reality. It's so cliché here that someone wants Romanian taxes. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, under your rule, the combined tax quota, i.e. the tax burden, has grown to the highest ever since 1993. We're hitting a level of 37 percent. It's above the OECD average, the most advanced states in the world. So what kind of Romania are you talking about when a whole range of more advanced countries than the Czech Republic have much smaller taxes, much less tax risk, much less tax burden? [[19.30 hours]] You're saying space is on the revenue side. Your revenues increased by almost 400 billion from 2014 to 2019. Almost 400 billion. You're pulling more money out of taxpayers' pockets. So tell us how much more you'd like to pull people out of those pockets so that as redistributors, you'll finally be satisfied that you have enough money. No other government in the history of the Czech Republic had a larger volume on the revenue budget, a larger amount of money than your government, and it is not enough for you anyway. You just want to hire more civil servants, you want to have more state spending, and you want to pull money out of taxpayers' pockets to a much greater extent. After all, the problem of public finances in the Czech Republic is not an income party but an expense party. Well, at least just tell me fair and square what the compound tax quota should be, if it's 40, 50, or if you want to take 80 percent of these people's income.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Madam Secretary, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u8	Very briefly. I have to correct Mr. First Vice Prime Minister Hamáček's words unattackably. Well, we actually put 19 and 23 percent in the government's statement, too, at the time, it was in 2018. But we also put in a statement that the self-employed person, for whom it would mean tax increases, will compensate it by paying 3/4 of insurance premiums. This is not in Mr First Vice Prime Minister's amendment. To be fair, he proposes an increase in the tax discount to 27,400, I suspect, which does not compensate for the fact that the self-employed would increase the tax from 15 to 19 percent. Today? Today, when are these the most vulnerable groups? When did we shut down their operations? When are they at their worst, so we're gonna pay them back by raising taxes? This is simply unacceptable to us. So that's something we can't go through, and we need to realize, yes, we made a commitment 19, 23 in 2018, at the top of the boom. Today we are in the most difficult economic crisis and we simply need to support people. So we can't go the way that we're going to raise the taxes of the CFI and actually give the employees 1.5 percent. The 19 percent is about 1.5 percent. That won't even cover their inflation. And wages will not grow in the national economy. That's what I'd like to say. Then, of course, about the study of EVERYTHING. I studied it. In order to be comparable to the design of Andrej Babiš at 15 and 23, there would have to be a discount of about 46,500. Then we would be budgetaryly in the same way as we are with Andrej Babiš's proposal, and there is essentially no such proposal here. That means it's not compensated and we'd make a really big problem in this direction. So I don't want to have any more debates about it. I think public services, we put 56 billion in health care, it's our common budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u9	Your time, Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u10	At this point, I'd like to correct it and say that we can't -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u11	We have to keep the time limit. Thank you. Mr Benda, then Mr Skopeček again on the point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, one comment on the Vice Prime Minister. I do not consider it entirely fair to choose European countries and to say, these are the terrible ones, we do not want Romanian health. I don't hang up. I'd rather always pick an example than say these are the Drákul. I don't think it's quite good in terms of our foreign relations, either. And the second point, which also kind of... To name the health sector, which seemed to inspire you with the previous point when health care is paid out of public health insurance, not from the state budget and taxes, was also a little absurd. If there's one thing we're gonna have to deal with, it's the expense of the state, not the cost of public health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, then Mr Onderka, factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u14	It is an almost historic moment, but I agree with the previous speech by the Minister. And I just want to ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček if his alternative, his amendment, which means the increase in the taxes of businessmen that we've been talking about for hours about, how they're at the limit of life today, whether they're going to continue after the pandemic, or whether it's going to end, so if it's your increase in taxes for the self-righteous, it's an omission for the businessmen that you've just forgotten this when you write the proposal, this convention just doesn't run out, which can just happen, and it's legitimate, it happens sometimes to each of us. Or if it's really a planned tax increase for businessmen who are at this time - and I say again, we've been talking about it for hours - fighting for their lives. Do you really think it's the right moment to raise the taxes of the CFI? Right now, when we need to support them, when we were inventing and paying bonuses, subsidies, etc., we're gonna increase their taxes now? Is this really the optimal time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. We've all enjoyed this historic moment, and Mr. Onderka has the floor. Mr Ferjenčík, also a factual remark, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Serious colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, that's unfair. Also unattackable. My kolega Hamáček's amendment with regard to the tax burden I presented in the Chamber of Deputies, and even in the media I supplemented: social democracy is ready to talk about compensation for self-employed people. That you can't hear it because you want Mr. Andrej Babiš's proposal, which counts 15, 23, and you're feeding money to those rich people who, in our opinion, don't need it, is another matter. I certainly understand that you are going to focus on this matter now, as well as Mr Skopeček, through Mr President, it is a political matter. We all just have different perspectives. We don't think people who take over 100 grand don't need any more money. But people who can't even reach the average wage, I'm sure they need more money. And that is the objective of social democracy. Otherwise, through Mr President, there is still Mr Skopeček. Mr. Home Secretary Hamáček may have defined health facilities here as privatization, a possible privatisation that doesn't really fit here, but that's the experience we have with the ODS when it was historically with the government. And if I should give specific examples, I would like to do so, including from other fields in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ferjenčík, factual point, then Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the Minister's comment on the tradesmen. You're hiding behind the tradesmen. I think that a better solution has been proposed by us in this matter than Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, and that increases the discount on the taxpayer more. So a really bigger percentage of businessmen won't lose on that tax change. That's what I think is quite the optimal solution. At the same time, it is also necessary to take account of the adoption of a flat-rate tax, where another large group of traders can avoid 19% of taxation. So these are two factors why we think that a large majority of businessmen, if there were any relevant valorisation of the discount, wouldn't be punished in the end. But I think you're hiding behind the tradesmen, but it's more about things like the dividend tax paid by the Prime Minister and stuff like that. And we really don't see the reason for the taxation of labour being significantly higher than any other income tax, and that is why we think it's reasonable to rationalise the system in some way so that the scissors don't open up in that sense, and I certainly don't feel right to hide behind businessmen who have a flat-rate tax, and I hope they get a higher discount on the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr Munzar, a point of fact. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I also have a case against Mr. Vice Prime Minister, and maybe I'll start with a quote from Ronaldo Reagan, who is very suited to today's situation. The quote is: The problem is not that people are taxed too little. The problem is, the government spends too much. And you're actually asking us to take responsibility for the fact that you've been building an expensive and large state here for years, you've been increasing the redistribution, and you still haven't had enough because you had to borrow. In fact, you are calling us to resign to our program that we ran with in 2017 to this House, and you are asking us to break our word to the voters. And it's really not our fault that you broke the law that broke the super gross wage of 2015. And it is not our fault that this government, regardless of whether it disagreed with the solution, has submitted the abolition of a super-gross wage this year. So please don't tell us we've made any other decision than we've been saying three years since the beginning of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, Mr. Mr. Skopeček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u22	To Mr Munzar through you. I don't blame you, Mr. Ambassador. It is perfectly logical for me that the ODS is voting for this. I'm more surprised you've got the YES movement on your mind, but that's different. About the big state, etc. Well, the big state that you're criticizing so far has been in crisis situations. And I just remember the time when the state was running the right and the firemen have been begging the regional authorities since November to see if the regional authorities would pay them some oil, because they don't anymore. So that's the weak state we don't want. I don't want the cops to get what they can get, and then they can't because they're gonna run out of gas. Or to have to ask the county authorities for oil for firefighters. That was for you, that wasn't for us. And to my colleague, Skopečka, because I owe him an answer. It wasn't an intention, I confess. It is not our intention to discriminate against businessmen in any way. How do I put this? Just like the Prime Minister's two years fell out, so I lost my business there. Maybe if someone here suggested a second reading back, we can both fix it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, Mr Michálek will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u24	So, first of all, a response to an honored colleague named Onderka, who is not here. He used the word that we were feeding money to the rich. So I just want to explain that we're discussing tax issues and that we're taking people's money with taxes. And we're just talking about whether we should take less, more, and whether the more active, harder, or those who are luckier, we have to burden ourselves dramatically with higher taxes. But we don't stuff anybody's money. All we care about is that the state is taking more and more and more and more money from taxpayers' pockets. And I really don't want to go about whether it's optimal here today to dig deep moats between the rich and the poor, as if a rich man had some stigma and had to hand all his money over to the Social Democrats immediately for their redistribution. And as for Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček. Thanks for the fair answer, I take it, I really wanted to ask you this. Perhaps more than returning to second reading would be worth it if, at this convention, if it would be worth dropping the amendment, because I really think it is, and I hope that we agree with the Social Democrats that now is not the best time to take out more and more businessmen by raising taxes, many of whom are on the verge of collapse due to the costume restrictions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Michálek, in fact, Mr Veselý will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I will respond to the debate and the speakers. So we have a crisis here, we have a pandemic here, and as a way of reacting here, a proposal has been made to reduce taxes to the richest. Well, I'm pretty surprised by that. It'll cause a hole in the budget of 90 billion. Crowns. So I'm going to ask if it's going to be a debt. When are we gonna pay off the debt? Or if we take someone's funding, who's gonna take the funding? According to the outlooks presented to us, the deficit is 320 billion. Crowns. This will deepen him by another 60 billion. crowns a year. That means we're at some 400 billion. crowns a year. And if we look at how much more we can owe each other, that's some, we have a pillow of about 800 billion. Crowns. That means, in two years, it looks like we're basically going to go through the whole pantry, and then we're not really gonna be able to take a crown for credit. We're going to have significantly worse conditions. I think that this government approach, when it essentially proposes to rip out the state's income, says that they've already resigned to the fact that the government is going to rule the next parliamentary term here, and that that's the flood's approach after us. And I don't think we should support that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. A real point, Mr. Veselý. Mr Dolínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, we all know that these disputes between ČSSD and ODS have always been going on here and this is how they will be. We don't take your point. You're not taking him away from us, either. We simply believe that the public service, i.e. Health, social affairs, education, leisure activities are supposed to be accessible to everyone. Even for the poorest. If you don't think it like that, you think it should be paid or that they should contribute something more, I remember medical fees, we remember debates about charging higher education - it's your opinion, I don't agree with it, but I don't take it from you. It is absurd for us, and that is why we are here in this way, that this idea is joined by YES, which addresses and takes left-wing conservative voters, but promotes your right-wing conservative view of what the state should look like. That's the point of the dispute. We simply disagree, because we have been really left-wing politicians for over 140 years, with the state being weak, so that these people have to contribute. Who Can Contribute? Well, rich! The middle-incomers, they're already contributing, so they'll be poor like the poor today. And then the poorest can't reach the public service. That's the problem we're dealing with, that's the dispute we've been dealing with all along.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Dolínek, then Mrs Kovářová, then Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u30	Mr President, by your means to Mr Skopečka. Either it was a misrepresentation, or you meant it, but I think it was a bit of a misrepresentation. You said here that we shouldn't do any ditches, etc., which I totally agree with, and I think Ondřej Veselý here has made it clear that this is about some perspective. But then you said, "Why should they get more tax on the more hard-working ones?" But the wage level is not based on hard work. Are you telling me that the lady who works at the register is less hard-working than the engineer who designs the subway station? I don't think so. And you said we couldn't tax more than that. I think these women are often more hardworking than high-wage managers. So, please, let's respect these people by their job, what they're doing, not by their paycheck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová, then Mrs Minister and then Mr Skopeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. In her opening speech, the Minister said that she would not resemble historical conventions. Well, I'd like to remind them. It has been said here several times, but apparently not enough, the super gross wage that was introduced in 2008 was abolished in 2012 with effect from 1. 1. 2015. And when your governments and your government came, you restored the super gross wage. The reason was obvious - you wanted to keep the 80 billion each year. And you didn't mind. Despite the fact that your Prime Minister has always cried out here in the House that a super gross wage is a voter scam. And what was interesting is that a year ago, when the motion came to abolish the super-gross wage from the opposition, the Prime Minister on TV was shouting again that the abolition of the super-gross wage was a mega fraud on voters and that it was a thing that would destroy our ratings, and that it was a thing that would destroy the Czech Republic. And now he's coming up with a proposal that he claims to destroy the Czech Republic! So I'm asking, what is it? How's that gonna work out for our finances? What will happen to our communities and cities? You're not thinking about that at all! I think that the state is certainly supposed to help, the Corporal in this crisis, but it cannot ruin public finances for a long time in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Minister Schillerová, then Mr Skopeček, factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Mrs. Kovářová, I can't quickly turn the page now, but your proposal is, I guess, if I'm not mistaken, I'm quick to find it, also at 15, 23, right? Except without disbanding the fiscal rules, that's the smart mountaineer. So between you and me, I'm looking at the procedure here, so just to remind myself that you have 15 and 23 in there, you're supporting the Prime Minister, you're just taking down the fiscal rules. Well, I'm specifying. The rich and the poor. Please, I've sent you charts, to all the members of the budget committee. I've been comparing all the designs. I compared the Prime Minister's proposal, Mr. First Vice Prime Minister, there is clearly a minimum wage for all groups - or if I have from 15,000 - to further, you could have placed there, the Prime Minister is more favorable. In fact, when someone has income of CZK 15,000, there is a tax reduction of 80 percent. When the income is 35,000 crowns, it is 35 percent, and when the income is 100 000, it is 27 percent. When I compared the individual proposals, the only proposal by Mr Ferjenčík, who was with the highest discount 33 and something, if I say correctly, was advantageous for income from 15 000 to 19 000, then again was the most advantageous Andrej Babiš. All the members of the Budget Committee have this at your disposal. So please look at it and remember it, I believe I didn't send it for nothing. Now, let's just say, by leaving the money to these people in this difficult crisis, we're going to encourage consumption, I've already said that here. But we're also helping companies. The companies are waiting for it. They're waiting for them not to basically have to respond to pay raises at least by valorizing inflation - I'm sorry - about inflation, because they just - [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. [[Secretary Schiller: Workers will earn money to cancel this super-gross wage.]] Thank you. Mr. Mr. Skopeček. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Ferjenčík, will be prepared with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u36	I, first, to Mr Dolínek, through the President. Mr. Colleague, read the record. I didn't say that the harder workers automatically have higher wages. I said that richer people are simply because they need to be harder, because they need to be more entrepreneurial, more risky or more lucky. I also said that even those who are luckier may simply have more money. So don't push me around for disrespecting some cashier lady. I appreciate everyone who works. I appreciate all those who accept even less valued work and do not stand for the office of employment. I am very surprised that both by the pirát and by STAN, while when there was a vote on aid to entrepreneurs, businessmen in the form of subsidies and subsidies on the spending side, everyone was in favour and no budgetary responsibility bothered them. When we want to help the economy, help people through tax cuts, which I think is a more effective way of helping, because there is no redistribution, expensive inefficient redistribution on the part of the state, so suddenly this income aid is wrong for the Pirates and for STAN and calls for budgetary responsibility. So why did you vote in favour of the spending subsidies, the spending subsidies that we were directly helping our businessmen? That doesn't make any sense. So you can't defend higher spending, subsidies, and subsidies, and after a few weeks here to blame the efforts to help people through lower taxes, that it has budgetary implications. It just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mrs Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to the Minister. First of all, I wanted to ask her to forgive her demagogy about the budgetary responsibility law. Indeed, Mrs Kovářová's proposal to dismiss the budgetary liability law from this press does not say anything about her relationship to the 15% tax. Let's make a fair argument. I mean, this doesn't really belong here. On the contrary, Mrs Kovářová makes it clear that she does not like that the change is not addressed in any way on the expenditure side and goes purely to debt. Second thing. It's nice to compare the designs and say how something is more advantageous and something less. But you don't take into account the impact on the state register, so it's clear that if our proposal costs half and some people more, so that it's just more efficient, and it's more efficient in the effort to boost consumption, that those people who have deep pockets, when they get a bigger discount on the taxpayer, they spend the money right away and it goes into the economy, while the richest person who gets the most help from your proposal, they save it, or they buy the real estate for it. But if you really want to boost consumption, so far more effective for spending a billion is to raise a discount on the taxpayer than to lower the tax rate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Kovářová, factual point, then Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u40	I thank my colleague Ferjenčík for explaining this to the Minister for me. I will only respond once again to the Minister's warning that all parliamentary amendments will have negative implications for public budgets, including the Prime Minister and Mr Babiš's parliamentary proposal. And just a little example. You, Madam Secretary, are from Brno, aren't you? So do you know how much Brno will lose because of the Prime Minister's proposal? Brno will have minus one billion. Too bad Mr. Faltýnek isn't here, I think he's from Prostějov, isn't he? Minus 65 million a year, well, that's a nice amount this town's gonna lose. And I'm not even talking about Prague, that's more than five billion. Well, for example, Pardubice minus 146 million a year. Because canceling a super gross wage isn't for one year or two years, it's always basically, so figure out how much these cities are going to lose in one term. So I think that if you say that the parliamentary proposals have an impact on public budgets, that Prime Minister Babiš really is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mr Hamáček, Mr Juříček will prepare, then I have seen from the place where the Minister applied, all factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, I'll try not to get out, but only three such short reactions. I'll follow up on Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. I do not want to act as someone who trains ODS here, of course I respect that they have a program that is widely known, and that vote is predictable. But exactly what's going on in these cities that Věra Kovářová has read here, yes, Brno, that's almost a billion, there's a mayor who's probably not happy about it. I would like to know how the newly elected ODS captains stand up to this, because the impact on the region is devastating, but perhaps from the time the Social Democratic authorities were there, some money is left, but really the impact on regional budgets will be devastating. So that's one thing. Second thing, just a comment on Secretary Schillerová. I wouldn't use graphs and comparisons that are more advantageous, it then seduces it to pull out the most advantageous and that's to completely cancel the taxes, right? That would be the most convenient thing to do, except somehow the state wouldn't have anything to live on. [[20.00 hours]] And one final point. I'm a little concerned about the way things turn into perspective here in time. So I remember when Jana Maláčová came up with her professional group with a proposal for pension reform, so she was rejected by the fact that it was so expensive that the cost of pension reform in the first six years was 12 billion a year. Well, I don't know, but if I divide ninety by twelve, that's about seven pension reforms. So just such a sigh that what was expensive six months ago is pale today compared to what we are able to spend from the state budget on something that, from my point of view, will not bring the desired effect and only for some political party it will be the fulfillment of a dream, for some political party or movement probably the outcome of a poll.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mr Juříček, then Madam Secretary - factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u44	Hello. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly don't want to argue with you, tens and hundreds of millions of crowns are falling, and finally billions are going to cost 15 percent tax, let's say, 79.4 billion. to the state budget. I would just like to bring you to an idea that is generally known, and the economy is behavioral science, in other words, science about the behavior of society and individual people. In general, and you can read this in every famous people's economic book that with tax cuts, because you're talking about some sort of static concept, there's often a higher tax collection, and that's the dynamic view that no one's ever given here. I think it's the first thing to think about. And the second thing is, maybe after that, there will be a call from today's opposition, maybe for the future of the government parties, that we will finally start saving on the expense page. But why don't you consider the idea I was saying that we're looking at the world in that dynamic concept, and maybe we'll be surprised that the state budget drop won't be that big. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u45	Have a good night. Thank you, Mr Juříček, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, with a factual remark from the Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. A colleague Adamec prepares himself for a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I, Mrs Kovářová, merely wanted to say that you supported 15 and 23 without fiscal rules, which I explained would have devastating effects on everyone, especially on investment and on this area. But I want to say one thing. This year we compensated the municipalities so that, the comparison of 20 and 19, the municipalities are somehow a little bit, about 2% in plus, on all income, not just on tax. Judge the compensation bonus, judge the increased subsidy programs, there are about plus 2 percent. I don't have the exact numbers yet. That means they're in a good place compared to the year, even though we're in a crisis like this. The edges are, yes, in a slight deficit, I admit it. And I already spoke yesterday and today with the only Vice-President of the Association of the Regions, Mr. Governor of the Půta, we were just texting. He's telling me he's responsible for the association now. Well, I'd like to, if I could already deal with the new head of the County Association, and I want to start talking about it, I want to talk about the form, if it goes through today. I don't know what's going to happen. I don't know what to talk about. You just fired an amendment to change the budgetary determination of taxes for some 34 billion. plus minus if I take the regions, towns and villages. Based on what? You know what's going to happen today? This means that when I know clearly, there is still the Chamber of Deputies, then the Senate is back, the final amount, we will also know where we stand with restrictions, how the economy is developing, and I want to talk about it, I want to talk about some form of compensation, but not about changing the RUD. The fact that it's not written explicitly, in the design by Andrej Babiš, that it's for two years, it's not legal. We discussed it, we can't write in the legislation that it's for two years. The only thing we could do is put other rates in there from 2022. What's that? We will dictate the future government representation, the future Chamber of Deputies, what to put there? So it's only written in the explanatory note. It just couldn't have been any other legislative way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u47	Madam Secretary, the time has come for a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec's factual remark, Mr Dolínek will be prepared, also with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Ministers, Vice-President of the Government, I think this is a classic example of a symbolic confrontation, and we'll be here for hours and hours to explain what it's supposed to look like. We've been saying from the beginning, we've run for the House, we want to cut taxes, we want to cancel the super gross wage, so we can't expect us to turn around now, at this point. And I have to say, I'm also the mayor, and I also know that budget cuts will be there. It's just reality. But look over the past seven years, how the incomes of the municipalities have developed. Let each one reach into the conscience of where he put the money in the municipalities, how he is able to cope with it. That's what needs to be said. Madam Secretary is right about the growth, the compensatory bonus. I'm watching it, I was even saying at the beginning of this crisis that the downturns wouldn't be that big. And it's true, now I've also overheard a colleague I respect - why you're giving it to the rich. But we don't give them anything. People don't give taxes. We take them like the state, and we take less, of course, we want to take less, and we think it's going to be good because people have money, they're going to spend, we're going to buy. And what my colleague Juříček said, I agree, maybe he won't see it right away, but I think that society will gradually get to that level. We don't think each other's wallets are bottomless. That's not true. That's not true, that's not how it works, and we can't keep increasing the tax burden. The truth is, we have one of the highest tax burdens. Relax, it's not that big of a deal. And by the way, the rich still have a solidarity tax that was originally for three years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u49	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now, Mr Petr Dolínek, with a point of fact. Věra Kovářová will prepare herself, also with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. I don't want to take the side of the Vice Prime Minister today because we have a big contradiction about food stamps, so I don't want to praise or support her today, but I have to support her on one thing, and I really like it very much. You know, here's the fake game about who's gonna take the money from the community, which regions, and poor Prague loses three or four billion. I am a Member for Prague and was a Councillor in Prague who had to deal with a decision from Mr Stanjura - transport - this group of people who, when Prague needed it most, took billions that they never replaced! And now they're gonna yell that somebody's hurting today. No, when this group needed it, she just took it and used it and no one cared. And they're gonna teach us today! I think it's a shame. And let's talk about how to pronounce this package to help people, not to heal someone's pains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Věra Kovářová's factual comment, Roman Onderka will prepare for a factual remark. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u52	Only briefly for Mr Dolínek. I don't know who he was talking to, certainly not to me. I'm just reminding you, of course, we always say that Prague is fine, but now it's going to be really bad overall. And, if I may, to the secretary. I am glad, Madam Secretary, that you say that you will speak humbly with the regions, and I hope also with the municipalities, for some compensation. But that's exactly the wrong style. You set me up for firing some kind of amendment. Well, I suppose not, because the Prime Minister fired his amendment on such a change about 24 hours before the second reading began, and we had to respond immediately. So if we've made some rules about keeping budget responsibilities, I don't think that's a bad thing. But if you're saying you're going to have a humbly good time, I welcome it, but you should have had fun before you filed such a proposal. And you agree with that proposal, so it is clear that if you agree, it will probably be in this House and in the situation in which we are, of course, going to pass. So please, if you still make any such suggestions that you will shoot just before the second reading, and it will have implications for the municipalities and regions, so please try to deal with them before, not after.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Roman Onderka's Member, Jan Hrnčíř will also be prepared for a factual comment. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, if I have heard correctly, so implicitly, that means physically, it is not possible to put into the law that the abolition of a super gross wage is only for two years. If I have read and heard correctly, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have promised the President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman that this law will only apply for two years. So I want to ask you, Madam Secretary, do you have such an agreement with the President that he will not veto this law, which means he will support it, even if it is not stated under this law that it is only for two years? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Hrnčíř's factual remark and we will return to the priority rights as planned in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to comment briefly on what has been said here. The whole debate is in line with the government's poor work, because the tax reform of a brother for 90 billion really cannot be done by inserting an amendment just before this law is discussed. Really, such things should be discussed a little bit more, with more partners. And I think we could save ourselves this local comedy. We, of course, support tax reductions as SPDs, because it is money that simply, yes, will be missing in the state budget, but will remain in people's wallets, staying in the workers' wallets. That means we think it's a good option. However, the law, the tax package, every year already, you could say, is about something else originally. He's supposed to be raising excise duties on tobacco and cigarettes. We haven't dried the ink on the stakes from May this year, and we already have another auction. In the beginning it was most expensive in history about 12 crowns per box and so on. It was said not to get expensive so often. And it's going up again. So the government's pulling money out of the other side of citizens' pockets. And others and other taxes are rising - from gambling, real estate, etc. Thanks to coefficients, it will be expensive in certain cities and parts of cities and so on. These are, of course, things that are negative. However, abolishing supergross wages and reducing taxes is a positive thing. We support it. However, we do not like the loosening of budgetary rules, because it has nothing to do with the tax package. It's really inserted like this. If it were at least another amendment, but combining it with a super gross wage is wrong in our opinion. But we support the abolition of the supergross wage and, of course, the increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer, because it will help the low-income much more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u57	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. There. We now have before us the applications with priority rights of Mr Jurečka, Mr Zaorálek, Ferjenčík, Mr Kovářová, Mr Stanjura and Mr Bartošek. That's the order of priority rights applied for. Now, then, Mr Marian Jurečka. Minister Zaorálek will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister and Minister of Culture, the only two members of the government here are still with us in the pretty major press, so at least these two Mohicans are healthy and thank you. Dear colleagues, I confess that the subject of a super-gross wage is a very interesting subject. They've been talking about him for quite some time. Twelve years since this institute, which is really head-on in terms of tax calculation, was introduced. But I was intrigued by the way Andrej Babiš spoke to him in his political career. I found his interview, which came out on idnesa, virtually. an article from 8 June 2015, when Andrej Babiš, as Minister of Finance, answers: "We do not think that we should bother companies and employees again, that we will change it again. There's no effect in the finals." said Babiš. And then, he doesn't think that canceling a super gross wage would do any good. However, he was still talking about the fact that he was working on abolishing a super-gross wage in March. I can confirm as a participant of the coalition negotiations in the government with ČSSD and KDU-ČSL and YES, so Andrej Babiš fundamentally opposed the abolition of the super-gross wage in 2015. Among other reasons, apart from what I quoted, it was very often said from his mouth that this would be a significant threat to the state budget. I believe the present Madam Secretary here, I think the Deputy Secretary, if I'm not mistaken, surely remembers that time. And then, hey, I'm gonna take a look at today's very interesting conversation with a very interesting headline where the current Prime Minister says practically something else after four or five years. And he says he convinces us in the interview that it's actually convenient and that everyone will do better, it's written in the interview. And the secretary here also said that everyone will do better with this proposal. But it's one thing to say to the particular person, and then put it in a particular life situation and put the person in contrast with the fact that the person here has a husband, a wife, a wife, children, applies discounts and tax bonuses to them, and then ask if this move will bring something concrete to these groups of residents. And the set of people to whom it brings nothing, or very little, is really big. It would be fair if, in the interview, or perhaps today, the Minister of Finance also said that it is necessary to realise that of the 88 billion, if we talk about the amendment by Andrej Babiš, about half of this amount will go to a quarter of the highest income. That has to be objectively said. And I have to say, we prefer KDU-ČSL to look for ways to reduce people's tax burdens. Here I will agree with what has been said here many times tonight, a very high combined tax quota, one of the highest within the OECD. I criticized it here on the draft budget last year, I told you. But let's say that the path that is chosen by the amendment by Andrej Babiš is the way that really leads to the goal, that is to support Czech households, the Czech taxpayer by reducing taxes and moving domestic consumption, because households are dragging 60 percent of our economy. And I don't think this is the best way we could have chosen. Normally it would be normal to cancel the method of calculating the supergross wage and to adjust the tax system in the Czech Republic accordingly and, ideally, also include changes relating to pension reform. Because all these things need to be balanced from the point of view of the total revenue and expenditure of the state budget and not just from the point of view of one year, the year of the election, but from the long term in the other context. I can't agree with the statement that was made here, and I'm surprised she's gonna say it by profession and a trained lawyer. We know very well that a transitional provision can be put into the law and that this amendment concerns, for example, two years. It's a huge alibi that Andrej Babiš says publicly as Prime Minister that it's only for two years, but he didn't put it in his proposal and he wrote it only in the explanatory report. That's totally alibi-ish. So even in the interview where he says today that everyone will improve by CZK 1,521 on average - they won't. It needs to be said openly. It's a lie. There are really hundreds of thousands of people in the Czech Republic who are medium- and low-income, who, if they apply a discount on themselves, on their wife, on their children, get into the tax bonus and possibly still give interest on mortgages, they will not get an extra crown in this case. Tell that to these people openly. Don't just call them the one part A that's nice. And it is not fair here to say that the amendment of Andrej Babiš is actually the best in all of your variants. Stand up and say it out here openly, say the blackouts of what it's gonna cost, and then say the benefits to the taxpayers. And take it apart from the income groups, for example. That would be fair if you put it that way. And when you add these particular examples, life examples of people in situations, and you say how much it will be for a two - person family with two children, that is, a four - member family - husband, wife, or kind, mate and two children. Tell them. Tell those people. Say, if these two people make 30,000 crowns, now you have time to do the math, they have these two kids there, they have an average mortgage in the Czech Republic, please tell me nicely here today on the microphone how many these people will see every year. That didn't show up anywhere in those superhumans, how great it is. It is also fair to say, the 88 billion, some have already said so here today, means a state budget blackout of 58.1 billion, for the regions it means minus 7.8 billion and for the municipalities and cities of 22.1 billion crowns. We can already see, and so do business people, construction sector leaders, that there is a huge sense of blackout for medium and small businesses and businessmen in regions where they feel the decline in investment that makes standard cities, municipalities and regions have an impact on the regional economy, employment. [[20.20 hours]] Then we have to ask ourselves who's going to be bailing out this blackout. Next year, you're not too worried about it, it's going to be bailing out the issue of government bonds. Someone's gonna pay you back in time, it's gonna be us, our kids. But who's gonna deal with this in 2022, 2023? The whole tax package is a 120-billion-dollar blackout. The state budget we discussed at first reading doesn't count on it, but we've already discussed that here today. So these are some facts that don't sound fair in this discussion, and I feel the need to say it here. Yes, when these proposals came here, we, as KDU-ČSL, responded and made amendments that I think lead to the goal that you are talking about and with which I am willing to identify. Okay, let's take measures that can support our households, lead to a tax reduction, and that's an increase in the discount on the taxpayer and an increase in the discount on children. I particularly stress that because it didn't work out here. The most difficult economic situation in the Czech Republic is not even with seniors, but with families who have two or more children. And the discount that increases the discount on the taxpayer and the children is motivational because those who work legally honestly can benefit from this discount. And we've made a proposal that will mean - I'll say it specifically, I've calculated it, I'll give you an example, Madam Secretary. Two parents, three children. Our proposal will mean CZK 19 503 per year, which this family will get even if it is low-income. A family with two children, so it will be the sum of CZK 13,452. We're increasing the discount on children by 25%, with the taxpayer by CZK 2,400. And the impact on the state budget is significantly lower than CZK 88 billion. So you need to be able to argue and measure as much as possible to everyone as possible. Just as when you put this press here today and you said: Mr Andrej Babiš's proposal is in principle okay, I can relate to that, but all other proposals are not in order for you Members and Members, because that means budget cuts that we cannot afford. - Well, that's not a fair argument. So let's not measure the double standard. And I remember the debate about three weeks ago, here we sat, discussing a compensation bonus for businessmen. And I proposed a parliamentary proposal for the KDU-ČSL club, which I said: we want to allow entrepreneurs to draw, so that they can obtain both the compensation bonus of the CZK 15,000 a month, as well as rent support, or Antivirus on their employees. And you used the argument here, and you said, "He doesn't have the state budget, he can't take it." Well, once again, I'm saying this as an absurd example of demagogy when the argument comes in handy at one point, so I'm going to use it here, but in the second moment, it doesn't suit me, so I'm going to use it another way. So really, please, nicely, let's just say these things the way they're supposed to be, and let's not spin this purposefully, as it is right in that moment. For us on behalf of the KDU-ČSL I must say, we will support those proposals that are aimed at supporting cities, municipalities that are going to support families, families with children. It makes sense to us. And I want to ask one thing here, though I understand that we don't agree on those looks, but I have one amendment for KDU-ČSL. Please try to be more careful now. It has no significant impact on the revenue of the state budget, but it could really help many families. And that's the proposal that says, let's take it away when parents take out the tax bonus, so let's take off the 64,000 crowns that are there today, which means that even if you have honest parents, they're actually going to spend the bonus on a three-and-a-half-year-old in today's situation, if they have a mortgage, even sooner. And it doesn't seem entirely fair to me to those who set an example to children, go to work and raise four, five, six, seven, and I know families and nine children to deny them this and put them in a unnecessarily difficult life situation. The proposal, I think it makes sense. I have presented three amendments in my speech - an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, an increase in the discount on children and I present this third amendment, which only in the case of discounts on children and a tax bonus and in the case of a mortgage will make it possible to draw above the limit of today's 64,000 crowns, in other cases not. And I think that this should also be supported by the Chamber of Deputies in this situation. If the programme statement of the ANO and ČSSD coalition is written in one part that it wants to support families with children by the institute of discount on children, please try to fill it nicely by the end of your term. Because since you guys put it in that programming statement, you haven't done anything about it. Now's the chance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u59	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. He raised two factual points. The first is the Minister of Finance and then colleague Michálek. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u60	Mr. Chairman Jurečka, I will use the words of the classic, the words of Sculptor Mára from my favorite movie Pupendo. He says to his wife: Ališa, don't bring up the prehistoric. - I'm telling you, don't bring up the prehistoric. And if you pull it out, that's it. I remember. I was a real deputy, I went to those coalition councils, and I remember the assignment of the then Prime Minister Sobotka: cancel the super gross wage without fiscal impact. Well, why would we do that? And that was the Prime Minister's reaction, but it's not going to disturb and burden companies by changing their IT systems and their impact without the employees making money on it. So please be precise and correct. That's what happened. And precisely because I am a trained lawyer, as you rightly reminded me, I have my beloved alma mater at Masaryk University Law School in Brno, for seven years I have worked on the Government's Legislative Council, on the Financial Law Commission, I do not want to brag about it, so I remind you that the transitional provision is that it would have to be clearly stated what the rate will be from 2023. And then it would write down what it would be like. And you, if you're so enlightened that you know that, I don't want to put you down in any way, you could have made an amendment of this type. It's in the explanatory memorandum. It is a kind of political commitment with regard to the budgetary implications, and this is how I explained it personally to the President. Well, other than the maths and the baby discount. We recently said that on a joint TV debate show, but I want to remind you, a discount on children has no effect on the advantage of a lower rate. These taxpayers will only go through a higher tax bonus. Remember, you were sitting there in those Events, comments next to me -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u61	Madam Secretary, but the time has ended for a point of fact, so I have to take your word for it. [[The secretary asks off the microphone if she can log in again.]] You can apply, but you will be the third, because now Mr Michálek is a colleague, then Mr Marian Jurečka and then again the Minister of Finance. But my colleague Michálek is not here, so his application for a factual remark falls to the end. A colleague of Jurečka with a factual remark and then a Madam Secretary. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you don't have to argue with me here anyway, tell these people outside and give a specific example. Please, really take the families, take two parents, put some amount up to the average wage, put some amount of the average mortgage, discount the interest, and prove it to me on these numbers right here. I don't need your message of general phrases. I said specific calculations here, do it exactly the same way, let's compare it. It's a fact-fight. I think that makes sense. And please, I'll look into it, the quotes. At that time, the Prime Minister refused to abolish the supergross wage with an argument of impact on the state budget. That was his argument that he made at the time. And the third thing. When someone says he's been doing something for two years, I think I'm going to change the current situation, and after two years, I'm going to put him back in his current state, and that can be written in the legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, the Minister of Finance, with a new point of fact. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u64	Not at all, where is it written, Mr. Chairman? He can put it in another legislative state. What you just said, please, really, I'm sorry, with all due respect, is nonsense, complete legislative and legal nonsense. And the kids' discount. You know, they were raised in the past government, even in multiple families, you mentioned cases here, they have my admiration for such families. So there's progressive growth. Yes, it's true that the bonus is covered. The bonus is CZK 60,000 long ago, it didn't come up with our government here, it's been there for years, because it doesn't really know what it is until today, if it's a social benefit... It's the Financial Administration's process, and it's the only element of counter-abuse. But a debate on the downside, virtually. raising the ceiling, I don't remember it going any way. And the demagogy to the disbanded fiscal rules. I was explaining it here. It's not demagogy. He just couldn't have taken the budget without it. It's not a demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u65	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and we will continue. As my colleague Michálek is not here, we will continue with the performance of Minister Zaorálek. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u66	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, so I'm gonna try to make this brief because it's late. I should be delighted by the dispute that has flared up here today with the Civil Democratic Party as a reminder of the old ideal times, such fights, but my joy is not so obvious, because unfortunately, and I am very sorry, and I am sorry, it is now also a dispute with the Minister of Finance, which I have always supported here and in recent times, and today I confess that since the first sentence has been said that we have historically the biggest tax reduction in history, that we are actually witnessing here that taxes are being reduced in an unprecedented way, so for me the basic question that I want to ask here is really connected, and I want to build here as the main thing. That's what I feel like fighting. What is the reason for tax reductions and tax reductions for those with high incomes? For me, this is the basic problem, the root for me, why I can't identify with the proposal that has been put forward here, what's the point of reducing taxes to people with high incomes. Look, if it were so that in the Czech Republic the richer ones really are taxed in some way enormously, then you could talk about it, but anyone who looks at the comparison, look at the comparison with Germany, so you will find that this is not the case, of course. The high income is taxed in our country quite appropriately. There's nothing special there. Where there's a problem with us, it's the low-income ones, of course. We basically have a state that is financed mainly by the financial contributions of employees. We have high labor taxation. Yes, there's a problem. However, it is not true, my friends, that tax cuts are in themselves good. It makes sense in a moment when you're creating a deficit if it kicks in the economy. And I could understand that we're trying to help low-income people, or part of it's for medium-income people, if I compare it with Germany, it would just be worth it by raising their income, so kicking the economy, because that's where it really goes. If you give low-income money, they'll actually spend it in consumption. You're most sure of that. But you're not gonna tell me the high-income guys are gonna do it. That's just not true. They buy a new iPhone tops, but they don't really need to spend it. So they're actually saving you up, and they can save you up. And if we have a tax regime that leads to a person who has over 100,000 income just coming to another 40-50 thousand, I'm asking where the purpose of this adjustment is. That's really, you know, it doesn't kick any economy, that kind of adjustment. I'm afraid the money's gone to waste. And that's my objection. Why is it said here with such certainty that tax cuts are automatically good and even why should it be good for the high-income ones, why should it be good in the Czech Republic? It's just not true here that this is some kind of problem that we need to deal with. And why, in general, would that be good? For me, the echo of what was happening here in the 1990s is such a very simplified idea that Václav Klaus is that the essence of what we must strive for in capitalism is that we must reduce regulation and reduce taxes. And such a simple idea that tax cuts mean that the economy will grow automatically, tax withdrawals, and then the poor ones will get the better of it. But, folks, this idea is not true. This isn't what the empire supports. A lot of texts have already been written that show that it's not like that. I remember one study, which was in the United States of America, the team did here about a few years ago, which showed a comparison of US countries that cut taxes, and showed that it wasn't true, that the taxes of America that reduced taxes then grew faster. [[States]] She was just showing that it wasn't like that. Lowering taxes doesn't mean kicking growth. You just can't prove it. You just can't prove this simple thesis that easily, because it just doesn't confirm the empire, I repeat. On the contrary, with the low-income people, I'd still understand, because there's a lot of complaints today that they're not interested in work, that they're low... Of course, there's not enough motivation for low wages to work. That's what MP Jurečka was talking about in the end. Yeah, raising the discount on the taxpayer, that's a step that makes sense to me. This is something that can really help, it can kick, because it can boost consumption. But I keep repeating my basic sentence. I just don't take for granted, and I don't understand the point of raising taxes to those with high incomes. That's what I'm asking. Have someone tell me some argument about the purpose of this. I don't take the simple ideas of the '90s, and I'm saying this isn't a policy that makes sense. Such a deficit, it just doesn't help you. And that's what I'm afraid of. That is what I fear is that it is really giving money somewhere where it will not return to us at all, and it will only create a huge problem in income for the future. I can still remember the work that Timothy Snyder wrote, in which he also wondered why taxes were reduced to the richest. And he said when he described America, for example, it's done because it's based on lobbyism, which supports certain groups, which then support the financial campaigns of those parties that reduce their income. This is what he said was the key to understanding why taxes were going up. But that is also something that I would not wish to promote in the Czech Republic. I think that's wrong, too. And then there's one other reason I have to mention, which I'm also afraid, because I have a culture in mind. I am simply afraid that this type of tax adjustment will lead to the fact that, of course, cities, municipalities, regions, and if this happens, and also in combination with the pandemic crisis that has fallen particularly hard on culture, so I am simply afraid that there will be a reduction in culture, that the effort of municipalities, cities to finance culture or invest in the operation of cultural services at all, and that, especially in regions, I think, it can really lead to losses, that there will simply be loss of files and that it will not be able to sustain what I think was very important to the nature of life in this country. So this is also one strong reason why I am - actually during that year we managed to create an instrument, as we helped even those regional theatres and orchestras, but now it seems to me that if there is such a step and such a failure in the management of cities and municipalities, I am afraid that the instrument I have will not be enough to do so, then I do not even have the means to help them, and it can happen that the form of life in those municipalities will change completely and that we can be left with shopping centres, but the cultural facilities, the cultural institutions simply will not last there and that the epidemic will not survive. So this is also something that seems to me to be a strong reason why I would appeal very strongly to you to consider this vote. I'm just worried that there might be permanent damage here that may not be able to be removed for a long time. And it's something that I think if we said that we wanted to build a country that would be scientifically innovative, cultural, and where this would be things that we'd support, it would mean that this epidemic would completely destroy this country's idea. And I also think that-- this is where we talked about how long this adjustment is supposed to last. I also can't imagine it makes sense to make these kinds of fundamental tax changes, like, say, we've been doing that for two years. I admit I don't understand it either, because it's understandable that when we do things in the short term, it doesn't really affect life. If anyone knows that any tax change is only temporary, they will simply re-allocate their income to the period when the tax is reduced and it will not manifest itself in any more permanent policy. It just doesn't change the real activity of these people. [[20.40 hours]] That is why I think that this type of tax change does not actually have a big effect and does not have the effect it should have, the recovery of the economy. That's the only thing that justifies the deficit, that's the only thing that justifies such dramatic changes. And I really wouldn't mind the deficit or raising it if I knew it would serve to kick the economy, but I'm saying here, and I'm going back to what I keep repeating here - I don't understand the point of being told what the reason for tax cuts is for those with high incomes. There's no reason for that, and you won't find any.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u67	Thank you, Minister Zaorálek. Now with priority law with the opinion of the Pirates Club colleague Ferjenčík. He is not here either, so Mrs Věra Kovářová and after her will be prepared by President Stanjura. My colleague Jurečka has a point of fact in front of Mrs Kovářová. With a factual remark, of course, it comes first, it's even electronic, so it's clear. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. I was looking it up for the secretary when she talked about Andrej Babiš wanting to cancel the super-gross wage as the finance minister, but he didn't want to do it for budget reasons. There are more articles, but find it yourself, it's March 2016. I'm here to quote the quote that Miloslav Kalousek says: If Sobotkův's government hadn't taken any active action, those laws would have come into effect and the super gross wage wouldn't have been, Kalousek said. He went to Sobotkův's cabinet and read to him that he increased the direct tax burden by CZK 30 billion. The current Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš for YES Kalouskův against Kalousko's accusation. I quote: The duty of any government, of course, was to abolish these laws, which are budgetaryly accountable by the ex-minister, etc. So please, use the arguments as they were at the time, and don't put it in another light now. It's publicly traceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u69	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact by Mr Martin Baxa. Mrs Věra Kovářová is still ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. Good evening. My colleague, I would just like to speak to Minister Zaorálek. One moment, Minister, before you leave. Just to the short segment of your performance. You spoke about the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture and expressed serious concerns about the impact that what is currently being discussed could have on the cultural institutions of cities and municipalities next year. I just made sure of my colleagues who are economic experts in our club, and they have confirmed me once again that proposals for the possible abolition of a super-gross wage are not included in the draft budget for 2021. So, Minister, I'm based on the premise that you were building the Ministry of Culture's budget for next year in the concept of state debt proposed, if I am not mistaken, CZK 300 billion this year, CZK 500 billion. But, Minister, tell everyone honestly that the Ministry of Culture's budget for next year is almost the same as for this year and that there is even a drop in the amount spent in some areas. You, Minister, have not built a budget that is growth. You did not build a budget to respond to how the culture was affected by covid this year. Yes, this year the state contributed, but next year it is not visible in the budget. And now your performance seems to me like you're making an alibi here for actually falling in the state budget next year is going to serve to make sure that culture doesn't have a lot of money. At the same time, say honestly, by negotiating with Minister Schillerová, you were only partially successful in getting some money into the program of professional theatres and orchestras, but in other parts of your budget money is missing. So don't say that what's about to be approved here will have a fatal impact on the financing of culture next year, since you haven't built a budget for next year, which would be very pro-cultural and helping culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. kolegyně Kovářová will continue to wait because there is another factual comment by Mr Onderka and then a factual comment by the Minister of Culture. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Only through your brief response to my honored colleague Martin Baxa. This is precisely one of the reasons, Mr colleague, why I tabled an amendment to the state budget for next year in the amount of an increase for live regional art of CZK 300 million, and I look forward to how the ODS will support this proposal by your means and at the head of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the de facto comment of the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u74	Yes, I must respond to what has been said here. I cannot confirm what Mr Baxa said here, because we actually agreed in our meeting, which I had with the Minister of Finance. We have agreed, as I have already said, what is the priority for me in the year that is coming. For me, it was an important thing that we agreed in advance that I would have in my hands the same instrument I had this year, that is, above all, what I said, what I cared about, the support of the regions, the support of regional theatres and orchestras. That was one of the key things. And cultural activities in general. And actually, here we agreed that the budget would be strengthened, so actually, from the point of view of what I cared most, I got the tools without which I would feel powerless in 2021. It must also be noted that the budget that you see is not included in all the funds. For example, there is not the billion I received for investment in 2020. You probably don't know that, but from the billion I've received, I'm gonna be able to fake about 350 million by the end of the year, and I'm more or less assuming that we can agree with the Secretary of Finance that the funds will roll over by next year. So in that budget, as you see it, you really can't see everything. At the same time, there is another one, and it was quite a crucial agreement for me with the Minister that we will be dealing with the situation in 2021 as we did in 2020. It's pretty hard to guess what the individual segments are going to need. And I have to say that in 2020, it really worked, that we met over the course of the year, I got 300 million in the first stage of the crisis, then I got another 300 million. We also met when I needed to strengthen nonprofit organizations, and we actually always agreed to create either a specific instrument, which we then solved the situation according to how we estimated the sum. Madam Secretary suggested that we -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u75	Mr. Secretary, you've also finished your time on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u76	In the end, the deal was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u77	Mr Marek the Výborný's point of view. Mrs Kovářová is still on hold. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll respond to the culture debate. Minister, that's all true what you're saying. On the other hand, I'm wondering what the Secretary of Finance is going to do to you after some coalition here tonight cancels the super gross wage that he's going to give you. I'd really like to know, there's 80 billion of them hanging in the air. I hope you don't live in the illusion that when you're dating that fair-strung hand, that the Treasury Secretary will be giving you those donations next year. And the other thing, and that didn't really work out how you, as minister, help those orchestras, the theaters that set up the regions and cities. There's going to be almost 30 billion down there, and every mayor, every mayor, every chieftain tells you he can't cross out 100 percent of his investment. He will look for an affair and, of course, it will affect those institutions, and cultural institutions in the first place, which are established by municipalities, regions and cities. And that's a huge problem. Then even the Ministry of Culture will have nothing to help keep these orchestras, theaters. And that's a huge problem. That's where we need to focus. Indeed, this decline in the income of the regions and municipalities will be completely fatal and, unfortunately, cultural institutions will pay for it. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u79	Mr Zaorálek is once again reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u80	Now it's pretty clear what I'm gonna say, because that's why I got off here in this rather long show. In it I just asked the House to support the amendment by Jan Hamáček, because with him I can imagine that we will come... that I will be able to do something. But I'm just afraid that if the House supports this proposal, which means a much bigger revenue drop, I've been talking all along about the fact that in that case I'm not sure that I'm capable of having such an instrument, so strong, and even if it's strengthened, I can do something about what's at stake in those regions. That's what I said. The House will decide, it's in her hands, and I believe that this will take into account these implications and what I said here, so that we don't just have the shopping malls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. And now we are going back to the debate with priority rights. I have already reported to my colleague, Mrs Kovářová, and I have reassigned my colleague Ferjenčík, who was not present when I called him, for her. If my colleague Stanjura agrees that Mr Ferjenčík, who has been applied for, has lost the order. Normally, I should put you at the end, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, let me contribute to the debate with my opinion and opinion of the starosta and independent of the proposals that relate in particular to the abolition of a super-gross wage. I must say that the government's decision that it will fundamentally undermine its revenue at a time of crisis and thus threaten the stability of public budgets, so we, for the Mayors and independent, of course, for the self-government, can hardly accept that. However, these declines must be replaced simultaneously by a change in the budgetary determination of taxes, which is my amendment, which you will find under number 6623, and is just conditional on the adoption of Mr Babiš's amendment, so as to compensate the regions and municipalities for the huge failures that this is threatening. We consider it unacceptable that the compensation for this fall in shared taxes for self-government should not be accepted in the same tax package or, with some argument, be postponed sometime afterwards. I think that's a huge mistake. The amendment is that the declines are offset by an increase in the percentage of the income tax share of the regions and municipalities, i.e. employees. What are the overall effects of tax changes on regional and local budgets? Prime Minister Babiš's proposal, which says that the super-gross wage system will be replaced by tax rates of 15 and 23 %, but also other proposals that have been passed by the Committee on Budgets would mean a permanent one, I repeat a permanent decline in the tax revenues of municipalities and regions of approximately minus 10 percent, i.e. a total of CZK 25 billion and CZK 8.5 billion for the regions. And here we also see a fundamental contradiction with the Czech Government's programme statement, because it is the Prime Minister's intention that is in direct conflict with this statement. Let me quote: We want to start reform of the state. We need to straighten out the relationship between the authorities and the state budget. - So here we see how the ratio equals. Is the government's intention to reconcile the relationship between self-governing bodies and the state budget an ongoing decline in government revenue by more than a tenth of its revenue? And I continue with the program statement: We promote a stable and predictable tax environment. Changes to the system of tax laws will be implemented only by a few comprehensive amendments, with sufficient delay in effectiveness. - I think we have seen this clearly when this amendment was tabled. And let me just remind you that in the government's programming statement, the supergross wage will be abolished, a reduced gross wage rate of 19 percent is proposed, etc. As Prime Minister Babiš's amendment was tabled, neither the stability of the tax environment nor the sufficient reference of effectiveness at the threshold of December before the entry into force of 2021 can be said at all. While the government states in its statement that the compensation for the abolition of the supergross wage will be a reduced rate of 19 per cent, its prime minister is in complete violation of the government's programming statement proposing a rate of 15 per cent. Furthermore, I would like to mention another part of the government's programming statement: Local and regional development consists primarily of quality of life, accessibility of public services, sufficient work, a favourable environment and a perspective for young people. Providing local development depends on municipalities and regions to have sufficient resources to achieve it. End of quote from the program statement. - And what does that mean, this amendment? Self-management will have to substantially limit its investment, but also ensure public services. Not to mention enough resources to ensure local development. Community budgets ensure the safe use of public resources under the public control of citizens, and their investments are invested through regional firms and entrepreneurs. If the government is overly pointing out, and the Minister repeatedly, enough funds in the municipal accounts, stands in contrast to the huge internal debt on infrastructure. In a number of villages, if you, my dear colleagues, do not know, lack a water supply, sewage sewers, heated buildings. We also talk quite often about kindergartens, primary schools, lack of landscaping, ponds are unboiled and so on, I could continue. Municipalities always invest their saved funds and save themselves for participation in projects or in return projects. And once again, I will go back to what the Minister says is being done for people, and I have to say that if you limit the funds for municipalities and regions, it is precisely the things that municipalities and regions and people in these municipalities and cities need, that will not be the case. When I look at President Faltýnek here through Mr President, do you know how much Prostějov will lose? When you get there and ask the mayor how he's doing. [[Voice: Mayor.]] Sorry, Mayor. So he tells you he's gonna miss minus 65 million crowns. So I don't think he's gonna thank you. And how will the municipalities and regions proceed in the event of a permanent decline in their budget revenues? The municipalities will not be able to fully cover their operating and mandatorial expenses in the current crisis combined with the effects of the abolition of the supergross wage. There will undoubtedly be a sharp decline in investment expenditure among all municipalities, a reduction in the ability to co-finance European projects or projects with compulsory own expenditure of the beneficiary, and also a weakening of the ability of self-government to implement them, which, of course, will have a very dangerous impact on the state. Finally, let me conclude by saying that such negative impacts on the budgets of self-government have no equivalent in the past. No law passed had such a jumping effect on self-government. On the contrary, when the State increased taxes and thus also with autonomous shared taxes, there was a simultaneous change in the budgetary determination of taxes by setting new sharing rates for the taxes in question. This, for example, was due to the pension reform and the increase in VAT in 2012, the reduction of shared taxes was precisely in the budgetary determination of taxes. In the case of tax increases, the government simultaneously adjusted the income of the municipalities by reducing shared taxes and, on the contrary, in the case of the current tax reductions, the government does not present any similar proposal for the benefit of the municipalities. Therefore, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, I ask you to support our amendment, which right now compensates for the huge outages of self-government, and to allow proper operation in our municipalities, cities and regions to be ensured. It is also possible to invest in civic amenities in all regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u83	I thank Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. She raised one factual comment by Mr Jan Birke, prepared by colleague Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. That's how mandatory we always say I didn't want to perform, and here I am. In any case, I will try to respond to my colleague, the esteemed Member, the previous speaker. And I just want to say that this catastrophic scenario does not need to be described for all municipalities in the Czech Republic. Of course, I'm not going to talk about how the city I'm worried about is irrelevant. But what is important is that we must not forget that cities in the Czech Republic, the smallest, so-called. The 1s, the 2s and the 3s, even the primaries got the compensation bonus, the settlement of CZK 1,200 per citizen. And if I remember well, and if I counted well, and I'm quite counting well in Náchod, then I have to say that tax loss doesn't really cause me any absolute problems for this year or for next year's budget. And I even have a record budget for next year on the volume of investment, so I just want to say it. But of course it's a sample that, of course, can't be counted. On the other hand, the truth is, we've had years of abundance. And I think one of my previous speakers here said, let's feel the conscience of where the money just went. Where the mayors put the money, the mayors. And if funds, reserves weren't created, then, of course, one beautiful day, it could just happen that the rooster closes, and that's what happened. I don't want to say it to anyone's conscience, but there's no need to say it flat-rate and simply describe the situation that it's catastrophic without all 6.5 thousand, or exactly, sorry, or 6 200 cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. There are exceptions to the rule. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. Mr Stanjura, President Bartošek, will be prepared. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I overlooked President Faltýnek and his point of order. Thank you for reminding me. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u86	I'm sorry, but Vice-President, it's only gonna be one sentence. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Just a brief reaction to the rare Mrs. Kovářová, who mentioned the town of Prostějov. It is true that I have actually been a permanent member of the Council of the City of Prostějov for various parties since 1990. Three consecutive times. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] First agricultural, then social democracy and then YES. And it may be true that the city of Prostějov will lose 60 million crowns with this proposal, as you said. I communicate with the Mayor quite often. He was at my place for coffee this Sunday. But as far as the citizens of Prostějov are concerned, virtually. workers, if we take the city has about 45 thousand inhabitants, Radime, plus minus an inch, we are both from Prostějov, if the workers were 20,000 or they saved 1 700 crowns a month, so it is, my colleague, 400 million crowns a year for the citizens of the working city of Prostějov. And they're gonna spend the money in that town. Those are the citizens of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura will speak in the debate. And President Bartošek will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Although my tongue itches, I have not yet taken part in the shootings of factual comments, because I would like to speak to the tax package several times, because there are more important things, I will talk about them now, then there are less important things, or things that are also important, but that are not so excited about the public debate. I'm glad we're having an idea argument today. If you look at our benches, although today we are in half the number, all of us, Members and Members of the Civil Democrats, have been elected with, among other things, a significant part of the economic part of our electoral program in which we have proposed, and with that we have addressed the voters that we will push for the abolition of the supergross wage, which is technology. But we're going to enforce a tax rate of 15 percent of the gross wage. We ran with this, we were all elected with this in October 2017. We transformed that promise into a bill that was sent to you about August 8, 2018. Since then, it has not been read in the first reading or received in the first reading in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Then I'll quote from the explanatory report, or respectively. the Government's position, the Government's negative position. I have to say that sometimes with a smile, sometimes with sadness I read comments and important commentators who say: 15 percent will pass because the ODS changed its mind. I feel like I'm living in a madhouse. We're running with it, we're promoting it, now we're a few hours before the vote, where we have a chance - we'll see how it turns out - to push our program through. And some say we've changed our minds. I don't understand it at all when we keep saying the same thing. If anyone changed their mind, it was Andrej Babiš, Madam Secretary of Finance, and a significant part of the government, which means the YES movement. And I don't mind if he leans towards our proposal that we've been promoting for a long time. So just to explain that somebody... I will answer the questions: Will you support Mr Andrej Babiš's proposal? And I often responded with the question: Do you really ask me if we will support our own program? Really? And if you do... [[unintelligible]] It's not entirely surprising. We'll support our own program. In the debate that has been held so far - and it is legitimate and I will not criticize anyone for having a different opinion, rather I will argue with that opinion, not criticize the holder of that opinion - we have heard different views. Views from the state budget, views from regional authorities, views from municipal authorities and views from mayors, generals, representatives. I want to offer one more look. We are not elected either by the state budget or by the regional budget or by the municipal budget. We are elected by citizens and those who work and do business are taxpayers. In fact, they're all taxpayers, because VAT is actually paid by anyone who pays. They're voting for us. And I'd like to talk about the taxpayer's point of view at the beginning of my speech. The guy who pays the taxes. We forgot about that in the debate so far. Perhaps with the only exception of a brief factual comment a few seconds ago. We have been discussing two possible approaches over the long term to reduce taxes on dependent activities. One, which we have been in vain here for many months, very often hand in hand with other opposition parties, is an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer. It's been since 2008. We've heard those arguments x-times. X-times the government majority - including Jan Hamáček - voted against. I just want to remind you. At least six or seven times we have voted on this in various laws over the past 12 months. Social Democrats who are on the mountain for it today, and I'm glad they won't come to the microphone and say: We apologize to you, colleagues from ODS, we should have supported this a long time ago, your proposal to increase the basic discount on the taxpayer. Now you've figured it out, so we'd be happy to make a deal. And that's the principle that we're going to reduce everyone's tax burden equally in absolute terms. That's a legitimate principle. [[21.10 hours]] Our proposal, which is in print 254, which he has adopted, adopted, copied, used as inspiration by Andrej Babiš, reduces the tax burden on all employees as well but relatively. That means percentage. These are two approaches, both of which are relevant, and we're having a debate about that, or an idea dispute. I asked the Minister in writing in an interview to tell me how they came up with a figure estimated by public budget cuts, which then divides about 60 per cent by the state, 8.92 by the region and 25 per cent by the municipality. The secretary of finance sent me a general answer that was based on a study that modeled it for them. I wasn't satisfied with that, so I asked the Minister in writing to receive the study. Quite surprisingly, I got the answer that there was no such study, but wait, but the Ministry of Finance was based on data that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had entered - I'm sorry, I forgot the company, the name of the company, it's not important - and the Minister of Finance sent me the table. It's right here. [[He's pointing.]] It's yellow and white, I don't know if it was the Ministry of Finance or the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. And that's what's important for the debate. It divides our employees by income and tells us how many percent of the employees are in which income group. So I'd ask my left-wing colleagues not to talk about how we support the richest and the millionaires, because if I take it, I don't know who's setting that line, $100,000, $90,000, you name it. Let's say $90,000. Over 90 grand, the income is 1.6% of the employees. 1.6. Over 100 grand, it's only 1.04. And so I could go on. They're Treasury numbers. Let's take a look at the middle class together and try to say that the middle class is between 30 and 60,000. Maybe we can do 28 to 67 or up to 62. Up to 60,000, 93.22 percent of employees earn their wages. Are those the millionaires? Those are the rich guys who don't deserve more money? Those who have 60,000 gross? Okay, so let's go from the other side, let's say 30 grand. By 30,000, 52 percent of the citizens receive income. Even in the $30,000, they can handle themselves significantly (?). So don't mention that the bill prefers rich and millionaire. It's not true. Yes, some of them do. But it's a very small group. And we forgot to say something else. Who's funding the operation of the state? Neither government nor opposition. Taxpayers, those with higher incomes, pay more to the pension account, health insurance, social security. They're holding our public finance systems. They're not millionaires. They're the ones in that group 25 to 55, 30 to 60. I don't want to say I'm right about where to draw the line. She can't be drawn completely. The feeling that I'm a middle-class member doesn't just match my income. If I were to characterize them, these people, I'd use about three adjectives. They're people all alone, honest and free. Separate, honest and free. And we want to help them. We have long years, and now it seems that there is support for this proposal. Minister Zaorálek asked why we wanted to support the rich. So we're really supposed to talk about 1 per cent of the taxpayers? Or the 60 to 80 percent that form the basis, the vast majority of the state's income in social, health insurance? I think the other's on. That's why. I don't count on my thoughts and calculations, and I don't want to argue how much money he's going to return to the economy in a week, a month, a year, five. Nobody knows. We can say here, if he spends everything, spends half, saves money. What's wrong with being spared? That money, for example, invests in the long term, in the education of its children, in the provision of their own housing, in social services for their parents? We don't call on people to spend it on some useless merchandise tomorrow. We're just saying it's good to make about the money, I think it's exaggerated, but I don't want to argue if it's 80 billion. A public budget blackout, or 75, as the government wrote about our proposal last year, or 90, as someone said this year. But that's not money spent. That's not a bad expense for the state, the city or the region. That's our citizens' money. Those who put a lot more in this budget than that amount. So I don't see how anyone can say it's a public-finance breakup. The disruption of public finances will be caused primarily by poor spending. What I blame this government for, but also the past, in seven years of economic growth, we did not create reserves as if we believed that every year would be the 100 billion. tax revenue. As it was in previous years automatically. Look at budgets 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and look at revenue, and about 100 billion. On average, the revenues of the State increased annually. That means they grew approximately at the same rate by 25 billion. annual incomes of municipalities and cities, and by around 9 to 10 billion. municipalities and regions. Thanks to economic activity, economic growth and the fact that these people who hold all systems paid more taxes and employers paid more contributions for them. That is the answer to Minister Zaorálek, why we, as citizens' democrats, have advocated this proposal in the long run. So don't tell me it's for millionaires. It is for the independent, honest and free people that the Czech Republic needs, without which any government would not have drawn up any draft budget, no matter what budgetary rules. They hold the Czech economy and the Czech state and they owe our thanks. So it's not a waste of money. And I believe in the long term, and that's the idea that the best way to take care of money is by a citizen or a company, a bit worse by a community, worse than the village region and the worst of the state. There are others among us, which is why they are on the left side of the spectrum, who believe it on the contrary, that these citizens must be taken away first, and then the smart government will somehow redistribute it. That's the idea clash, and it's legitimate. And really, if you look at 30 years of the Czech Republic, the forces of the company are distributed about half and half. Among the citizens who prefer one ideal view, and the other. That is why the governments of the left, the right, are now ruling the left, which in this case, and I am glad, at least a significant part of it, or a major part of it, or a large part of it supports our right-wing concept, which believes in the sense of our people and our citizens. That is the fundamental objective of this bill. There are those among us, and I see that, who do not trust our citizens, who say that the state knows better. I respect that look, but I absolutely don't. And the secretary didn't answer that. I'm ready to answer what it's gonna do for a family that has $30,000. They have one, two, three kids. I think it's reasonable for Marek the Výborný to cancel the tax bonus limit, because it's really for families who have four or more children. Families who have three children, even with tax cuts, won't come up with that limit. And it would be a thing that the state would appreciate these families having so many children. This is a sensible amendment, which our club will certainly support, which has more symbolic implications for the state budget, but has a major impact on the moral evaluation of these families and these parents, and we should all support it. That's not a big amount. And then the families that have so many children will have an effect on how many children they care about, how many children they raise. The net savings are about 5.1 percent in taxes. It's about 6.5 to 7 percent. All of us Members of the ODS have been handing out a tax ruler, you can download it from our website, which actually corresponds to the calculations. We didn't have discounts there, but if you honestly calculate the discounts, and by being a tax bonus, of course, the income, if I don't count the limit, is the same for the family that has children and draws the tax bonus, which is, today everyone knows it, 1 147 CZK per month for the first child, 1 497 for the second child, and for the third and every other child CZK 1 897 per month, which is CZK 24,000 per year for the third child. So that's where you see the 60 grand limit. At a time when the parent does not have an above-average wage, 34 grand is gross and something, so if we support Mr Excellent's proposal, these families will also have the advantage, and that would be correct. [[21.20 hours]] I don't know if it's an advantage or a disadvantage, it always depends on who's gonna judge the arguments, but I've been a city representative for 17 years, 12 years a councilman and 8 years a mayor. And for Mr Dolínek, yes, I was the chief negotiator for the ODS, and Petr Gazdík for the TOP and STAN in the previous parliamentary term, when we didn't add or cut back on the municipalities, we only tried to establish a somewhat fairer distribution of the pie. Yes, it was particularly painful for large cities. I'm just reminding you that all these cities were led by the citizens' democrats. Still, we made it. It wasn't easy. Whoever remembers this j or this u, we just managed to push it together after a long debate that lasted about a year and a half. And actually, that's still true. Today we're talking about compensation for cities and municipalities, and I'm saying why not. As long as it's short-term. Note that - two years. I think it's possible, but I'm glad it's not there. I don't think the President has accurate information. Last week he was happy that it was only for two years. I consider this to be a small foul by the government, because in the explanatory report on Mr Andrej Babiš's amendment, it is written that the proposal will be valid for two years, but it is not in those paragraphs. I think it works, but it's a good thing it's not there, so we understand each other. It's not a true argument that it doesn't work. By the way, the abolition of the supergross wage should have stopped on January 1, 2015. And it did. And you broke the law. I think those are the main arguments for us to support the law. Now what complicates it from the perspective of the civil democrats? The unfair tactic of the government that combined it, one vote on income tax rates with the Budgetary Rules Act, releasing budgetary responsibility. The reason given by the Minister is really smiling. She says, otherwise I wouldn't have drawn up a draft budget for 2022. I don't know if the secretary can build it or not. I don't even know what's worse about those two cases. But the proposal is wrong. I will certainly propose, in the course of the debate and procedure, that we vote separately on those points, I think, 11, 12 of the proposal by Andrej Babiš, to which Mr Kubíček has applied, because that is fair. But for those who are afraid of that and who think that's why not propose or support the tax reduction, I have good news. We're not talking about the budget of 2021, are we? We don't need to change the law for that. We're talking about the 2022 budget. And the good news - that this government will no longer produce it. This government will not draw up the budget for 2022. And even though there's gonna be a stupid number in the law that allows for too big a deficit, it's just a possibility of how far the government can go. And it's not an obligation. And I believe that this draft budget bill for 2022 will correspond much more to Germany's approach than to Minister Schillerová's approach. So we will try to disengage the vote, there is also Mrs Kovářová's proposal, which actually gives it separately, because. [[unintelligible]] It's like the government, virtually. The YES movement, to be honest, because it's not a government proposal, as if it were saying, we want to be in favour, we think of the elections, now it seems serious or bad enough with our leftist colleagues, they might not be here, so suddenly after years they remembered the right-wing voters. But let's try some fat in there, because we know that the ODS will criticize it, that it's hard to think for them, that they'll approve something like that, maybe it won't work. I think that's the YES thought, and I have to say, they're wrong. That we're not just gonna fall for this fat. Well, if that's not the case, let's split the vote, let's vote on each problem separately, and that's it! We do not support the unwinding of the budgetary rules, but if I have to choose whether it is for Secretary Schillerová to know how to write something next June, or if we lower taxes and keep the taxpayers 80 billion, I choose option 2 because I know that there is a better budget for 2022 than the Minister plans. Minister Zaorálek has called on us to support the amendment of the Minister of the Interior, the first Vice Prime Minister, as the Social Democrats always say. They'll never forget to say the first vice prime minister on that microphone, have you noticed? First Vice Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister doesn't give a shit about us, he's been pretty special since the first Vice Prime Minister. But I want to tell the Minister why we cannot support the proposal of the First Vice Prime Minister. It is not just about the rates that taxpayers would save less, i.e. They paid more taxes than the ODS proposal that Andrej Babiš signed. Mr. Home Secretary, I don't know if by mistake or purpose, I do. raises the tax on all traders by 4 percent. So may I ask from this place of Social Democrats if they really propose to these hard-tested businessmen in these months and years to raise taxes by 4%? But they also propose to raise the withholding tax by 4 percent. The share of profit for small eseróček partners, income from rents held by property owners, 15 percent of the withholding tax is paid by those working on an agreement to carry out work or work activities. Do all Social Democrats really want to raise taxes? In other words, marketing says "we lower your taxes," and then they write it so that the state budget doesn't lose a crown. That doesn't work. Either I lower taxes or I lower my income. Both together are not possible. And behold, the Social Democrats have come to the spell of a basic discount. I will repeat the question for those who vote for social democracy and who want to support it today, and it is a good thing that they want to support it today: What did you do last month, two months ago, four, six, last year in the 2020 tax package when we proposed it? And not only the citizens' democrats, but also the pirát and other colleagues from the opposition parties? You were hardened against it. So I think your maneuver is just defensive, and you're hoping nothing will pass. I understand that, because the left has to choose the most in the genes and then divide and do good for the money of others. Well, it's pretty popular who wouldn't want it. I'll tell you who wouldn't want it. Taxpayers. They really know better what they're gonna do with the money. When I come back, for example. the average wage, so whoever takes the average wage saves CZK 1,775 per month according to our proposal, which is over 20 grand a year at the average wage. So let's go to the median, which is about 30,000. Let me not talk about the average wage, because it is true that the average wage is taken by a minority of people. The median is 30,000. And such a person, such a family saves about 18,500 a year. Do you really want to take that away from them? And then ask for a grant or a social benefit? And maybe you'll give it to them and maybe you won't? We don't. So don't talk about millionaires, talk about these people who can really get higher incomes. Another problem that is and I don't know if you're all aware of it, I was talking about it last week, and maybe even the week before last, those opening scissors between the income of employees who work for the state or in general for the public administration, and those who work in the private sector. Already the difference was 4,000 crowns a month, if memory doesn't deceive me. That's not healthy for the economy. And let's say, who has a simpler position, for example, next or next year, i.e. 2021 or 2022, negotiate a higher wage? In the private sphere or in the public sphere? He's paying for B. Really, [[21.30 hours]] We're looking at difficult economic months, maybe years. If we want to increase the incomes of those - and most of them - who work in the private sector, we're going to lower their taxes. It will reduce the pressure on employers who will not have to raise gross wages and at the same time increase the net income of those families. What's wrong with that, dear Social Democrats? What's wrong with that? Try telling me again how you challenged me with a pointless question, why we want to encourage the taxation of the richest. What's wrong with the fact that those who pay the biggest taxes and the biggest taxes in the size of 30 and 60 grand a month gross that we leave them some money? What's wrong with that? What would you advise them, those who have this income in private firms, and those companies won't be able to afford to raise salaries in the coming years, what would you advise them to increase their income? Do you know what inflation is like? Quite tall. Despite the governor's optimistic words, inflation does not somehow decrease. It's over 3%, which means it's cutting off the real value of money. We are not even able to guarantee that in the private sector, wages will increase by 3.3 percent so that at least inflation and the same real value of the money remains for those who have an average wage, or wages that correspond to the median or slightly above average wage. [[Nesroz.]] That's the way to help them. Maybe you don't see it, we see it that way. I rarely have the opportunity to speak this positive during this parliamentary term. I'm really happy about this. If we lower those taxes, I'm sure it's a good way to go. And let's have fun and find compensation for the regions and municipalities. I'm sure there's a solution. There are several ways. The change in the budgetary determination of taxes is one of them. There's little talk about the covid money coming from Europe, like there's no public debate about it at all. The government may be up to something, writing something, but let us support the investment activity of meaningful projects of municipalities, towns and regions. That's also the money we didn't know was coming last year. And it's about 180 to 200 billion in the next two to three years. That's what this blackout is all about. I will just mention our debate on budgets in 2017, 2018 and 2019. We have always put forward a proposal for savings of around 40 to 50 billion. In three years, 150 billion. None of this was spared by the government's majority. How we could use them today. We could afford this reduction without having to look. And the last point, and that's very important. Very often, I think that my honored colleague Jan Hamáček used it in his speech today, that it would increase our debt and that we are budgetaryly irresponsible. Well, if the government had brought in a balanced state budget for next year, he'd be right. We did not vote for a half-billion-dollar debt this year and we will not vote for a budget that has minus 320 billion. So if we want to be budgetaryly responsible, let us have a detailed debate on each billion deficit for next year. Honored colleague Roman Onderka here said, I'm slightly paraphrasing, the budget is completely wrong, under normal circumstances I wouldn't support him at all, but since I'm a government MP, I'm going to support him. I understand this politically, but there is a 320 million deficit that is not on the revenue side, but on the expenditure side. [[billions]] And there is no debate about that in that public space, as if we took it upon ourselves that each proposed crown of spending by the state for next year is correctly determined, well spent and we cannot save a crown there. No one in this room can believe that it is. Nobody. Either from the government or from the opposition. If we can honestly use up all our reserves, then let's talk about how much we can afford to keep to our citizens. I am convinced that we can afford it, that we will be pleasantly surprised at how responsible the citizens are. I say yes, they don't spend it right away, but they'll invest in their families, in education, in housing, for their parents. There's nothing wrong with that. I see Mr Juříček, who was also performing today, and he was right in principle that we are all counting on static numbers. There's no other way. Everything else is a kind of crystal ball divination, if it spends 5 percent of it or 10 percent of it or... Let's leave it to the citizens! They'll deal with it. Don't worry! They know very well what they can do with their money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will speak with a point of fact, and then President Bartošek will speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u90	I would not have believed that in such late night hours, Zbyněk Stanjura could make me laugh through you, Mr President. But it happened, and I almost got out of my desk. So they, the citizens' democrats, want to leave the money to the people, and we, the Social Democrats, are taking it away from them. That's what happened. Well, I think everyone who's been in this country for the past ten or fifteen years knows it's the opposite. What is it that pays off the taxes in our country? Don't they pay great money for our affordable, high-quality health care, health care, when all the countries around us are jealous of the amount of beds that - by the way, I'm not going to name them, they're going to put them on their own - did anyone in the last decades want to cut them off? We can't use it? Or in the case of health care, who tried to charge health care? In whose governments have there been differences between so-called old-timers and new pensioners? Who tried to charge college students in our country and the citizens didn't like it, not even the students? I guess it wasn't social democracy. And we pay all of this from taxes. And I would like to reveal a sweet secret that taxes in this country do not only apply to individuals, but thank God still, although less, legal persons, companies. So if my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party say they're different concepts, they're telling the truth. But then let B say that while social democracy through corporate taxation and, of course, natural persons, but above all companies, wants to finance public services, then it simply cannot be said that we want to take it away from someone. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and then Mr Roman Onderka will respond to the factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u92	Maybe Mrs Valachová is laughing, so a few maths. A thousand eight hundred billion spending just this year and about next year. A thousand eight hundred. And we say 4 percent of these expenses are left to the taxpayers. Not forty, four percent. If the world were as black and white as Mrs Valachová says, they've been ruling for 30 years and we've been in opposition for 30 years. And I have honestly admitted before that those groups of citizens that support one or the other concept are roughly balanced, and that is why these governments alternate. So it's not that black and white. Yes, we have pushed 19 percent for corporate taxes for the great screaming and opposition of the Social Democrats. That was the idea clash. Let's face it. None of us were there, or many of us weren't there, most of us weren't there, but our colleagues who represented our political parties at the time were there. You've ruled for the next seven years, and you've done nothing about it. What does that mean? Our decision was right. Despite the screams at the time, when they had a chance to change it, they didn't change it, they left it. Thank you very much. If you want to raise corporate taxes at this point, I can suggest it. But do you know, madam, what is the Republic's revenue from this tax? Make it - [[The answer from the diaper.]] Not little, not very little. It's obvious that you don't pay anything, that you've never had a little eseróčko, not little, but, of course, against VAT or social insurance, it's a much lower amount. So even if you double-taxed those companies, the yield still won't cover your crazy spending charges - now I don't mean in person, but I mean in party terms - in one single year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. Mr Roman Onderka, then Mrs Valachová's factual comment will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues. A brief response to my colleague Stanjura through you, Mr Vice-President. I will not argue ideally, I think that you have named it quite timidly in the sense that there really are two half of the population of the Czech Republic who have some access to the way they imagine their lives, whether they want to have free health care on a high level, or whether they want to pay extra. And I could go on, and I really don't want to go into this confrontation for nothing right now. You asked why social democracy would now support an increase in the discount on the taxpayer. There are about seven eight amendments, I would have to look at it exactly. Because most economists in the Czech Republic and people who deal with economics today perceive two fundamental things in the abolition of a super-gross wage. First of all, there is the worst moment in the past that we have been canceling this super gross wage, regardless of the condition of the economy, regardless of employment, inflation in the sense of exactly what is going on, but what is going to happen to us. And the other thing is, the rich guys are just gonna come up with more money. And those scissors are just gonna open up, that's an indisputable fact. And that is one of the reasons, and of the very fundamental reasons why social democracy will support an increase of quite the highest, given that we stop this opening of scissors. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Low-income groups and those who take the least -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u95	We have to keep time for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u96	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u97	I let you finish a sentence, but I can't let you finish another sentence. Mrs Valachová is next, then President Stanjura, still having factual points. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u98	I completely agree with Zbyněk Stanjura. The world isn't black and white anymore, the world's gone mad, it's gone crazy. Because we have high competition from citizens' democrats when we vote on the amount of pensions, the amount of parental contribution, the mobility contribution, so the citizens' democrats are competing with us: more, more, more, more expenditure in the state budget. And we Social Democrats are asking where we can find out where our income is. Really, the world has gone crazy, I agree. And also, if we're being listened to by businessmen and small businessmen. We do not want higher taxation of small entrepreneurs, medium-sized companies, not support of Czech companies. We want a digital tax, we want to shine light on multinational companies and other actions. Among other things, in order to enforce this, we are in the government with the YES movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u100	I hope that at 21.42 Mrs Valachová will forgive me a bit of sarcasm. And that you can promote it? [[An explosion of laughter in the ranks of ODS Members.]] That's as close as you've been to justifying your performance. And I remember all your red lines, unbreakable conditions. You've given up everything, you'll take it all, but that's your problem. I did not ask the Social Democrats why they would support the proposal to increase the basic discount, because that is a good thing. And I appreciated that. I asked them why they didn't support it three, six, nine and twelve months ago. That's a completely different question. If we support this together today, we won't argue about it today. My question was, why did you change your mind? Second thing. Mrs Valachová asked me where to find out. I will recommend you, take a look at the House of Deputies website, find our amendments to all former budgets in this parliamentary term, there you will find some 40 to 50 billion. the proposed savings each year. The first thing I can think of is that we have completely over-exhausted national grant titles - I'm talking about national, we have to draw European, or someone else will take the money - which is, in principle, unfair. Whoever draws a nicer table, hires a better company, can polish a better handle, it succeeds. And others don't. That's tens of billions. Look how spending on state employees is growing uncontrollably. And the world, if you say that we support solidarity and social feelings, I tell you in the long run that this is a traditional conservative right-wing issue. We are socially responsible, and you are socialists. It's the same piece of the word, but the difference is completely different. So, yes, compassion for neighbor, solidarity are conservative values, and the Socialists will not just steal it, even if you try so hard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u101	Sorry, time, Mr. Chairman. Mr Roman Onderka with a point of fact, last one at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u102	Through the President, colleague Stanjur, we do not need to steal, because we have been created on these values as a social democracy, and long before you ever dreamed of it. First of all. And two. Why are we supporting today's proposal for an increase in tax deduction? Because in the government's programming statement, the abolition of the supergross wage is, and we were expecting the government to submit a proposal that is in the programming declaration, that is, taxes 19 and 23. And since there has been a change where we have failed to agree, one has to respect that, and there are 15 and 23, we want to prevent our position from opening scissors between high-income and low-income employees in the Czech Republic. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u103	We will now continue to speak to Members in the general debate, namely those who have priority rights. Just to be clear how we're going to proceed. President Bartošek, who is next, then Mr Ferjenčík and then Minister Maláčová, is applied for. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm so happy for this discussion, it's just too bad it's so late. And it's cute to watch as social democracies with the ODS get over here, and it reminds me strongly of a period when both sides were 30 percent, and as if they were a little out of touch that someone who's close to 30 percent today is completely different, and they're arguing about someone else's amendment. I think it's useless energy, and it's a shame it's cute to watch. Thank you. I believe that taxes are an instrument of the state, an instrument of prosperity, but also of social reconciliation and solidarity. It's about how taxes are used, when the state takes money, it's a question of how much and from whom, but one thing's for sure, it's money that the state hasn't earned itself. If the state wanted to take responsibility for its future budget, for entrepreneurs and for people, this law was discussed in the Chamber of Deputies at a completely different time and at a completely different time than six weeks before the start of the new calendar year, when the state was coming towards the business sector six weeks before 1 January and changing tax conditions in the business sector. It must be said, frankly, that if we want to support entrepreneurs, the tax system should be predictable and in a proper legislative process. What have we witnessed? That the government has tabled a bill and amendments in the order of tens of billions have entered it. What else is a political act other than taxation? [[21.50 hours]] I firmly believe that if there is a functional coalition, it will agree on who it will raise or forgive, on which it agrees, with this law it will come to the Chamber of Deputies on time, and regardless of any amendments, this law will enforce. Because changing taxes isn't like buying rolls. A standard law of this magnitude is to be passed through a legislative process that is exposed to the so-called RIA, which means the impact on the state budget. Such a law cannot be an Eldorado of amendments, whether Prime Minister Babiš or Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, to demonstrate political power here in this law, and this law becomes part of the political struggle within the government coalition. This will ultimately bring damage to people in the Czech Republic and this country. Mostly there's a discussion about canceling a super-gross wage. But it must be realized that we are not just talking here about this step of government. We are talking here that the tax changes with which this government is coming can be in the range of up to minus 200 billion every year. And in this optic of 5,000 for pensioners with a one-off budgetary impact of 14.5 billion, it may seem like a harmless baggage in relation to public funds. Because if these black forecasts come true, we talk about minus 200 billion each year in the state budget. And if we're talking about not having an impact on the county budget and not having an impact on the municipal budget, that's a lie. Let's say that 200 billion - even if only 100 - will not be missed? Is that what you're saying, government coalition? That you won't recognize 100 to 200 billion a year in your city and regional budgets? Is that what you're saying? Is that what you want to convince people about? It is important to note that rapid outages from regional budgets in the event that this government pushes through these changes may in practice mean that the regions will not have the money to finance social services, and it can really mean their threats and downturns, as well as, for example, the declines in hospice care. Culture has been mentioned here. Of course there won't be any money for culture. But if the municipalities lose resources from shared taxes, it will also, of course, mean that companies and people will not have jobs, because the state and the municipalities will not compete in public procurement because they will not have public funds for this. And one more thing I'm in vain to find an answer to. We are at the stage of the first reading of the state budget, which is somehow prepared. When the various chapters were discussed, for example, for the Ministry of Defence, I asked if the government really meant this intention with tax changes, it meant a public outburst of money, even if it was worth 100 billion. And I asked the ministers where this government would take it. I asked where and in what chapters may this government be looking for savings, where it will cut the 100 to 200 billion. What's he sacrificing? Or is this government ready to borrow another 100 billion within the budget? Or is the whole budget prepared wrong? Like it seems that way. Or do we suddenly find that we are missing 100 billion, and the government comes up saying yes, we are ready to increase the state budget deficit by another 100 billion? Is this how you imagine quality work? Is that how you manage public funds? Sadly, no one could answer me. That's all that comes down to. This government doesn't have a solution if it goes through such a high blackout of public finances. If I'm wrong, I'd be happy to have the Secretary answer that question. I mean, the government really isn't helping the needy. If you do not increase the deductible item to the payer and the child tax bonus, you do not help the needy. You don't fulfill the meaning of tax policy, you're not a solidarity government, you don't help the needy and you don't give a shit about family. This will be the business card of this government - after us the flood. Because whoever's building a coalition in this country hasn't been here since the '90s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Holík will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u106	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Look at the time. We've been doing nothing but throwing dirt at each other for three hours. I'll follow up on my colleague Bartošek, who said the government didn't prepare it. And I ask, are we better or aren't we? Everyone here is performing with their alienated speech, which nobody listens to. Hell, let's do something like people! Let's meet outside, representatives of the parties, agree and approve. I mean, people are looking at us. They expect us to be the elite we have chosen. And instead, we're arguing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who is not here, will now appear, so he cannot perform. And Minister Jana Maláčová will perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I listened closely here and I agree it's late, so I'll be very brief. You know, I've lived in Germany for ten or twelve years, I'm graduating, my first college diploma. And according to President Stanjura's statement, this is a country that does not trust its citizens because it has high taxes. But I have known Germany as a country with high taxes, but it also has high wages, thanks to high taxes, an advanced social state and also a high level of redistribution. That's what right-wing evil is. But everywhere in the world, it is seen as maturity and high quality of life, or a high quality of life. There are also other countries, I will not name them all, which have high taxes. Scandinavia, Finland, Sweden. From Scandinavian countries, they are Finland, Sweden. These are not countries that do not trust their citizens. On the contrary, they are trying to make sure that everyone in that state lives well, even the least incomed. On the other hand, other countries have low taxes. Do you know which countries have a lower rate than 15% in the European Union? Romania and Bulgaria. This means, on the one hand, Germany, Scandinavia, and on the other hand, Romania and Bulgaria. And that's what this is about, if we go the way of Germany, Austria, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, or on the other side of Romania and Bulgaria. As Social Democrats, we want labour taxation to be reduced. That's what we want. And we want this especially for the low-income, because wages, and that is also mentioned here by President Stanjura, are very low wages in the Czech Republic. Hallelujah. He discovered America! Wages are very low in the Czech Republic. Two thirds of people have less than average wages. But there's no way we're gonna lower taxes on everyone, restore them, and intensify the wet dream of all neo-liberals, 15%, and make a 90-billion-dollar hole in the state budget. 90-billion-dollar! On average, one fifth of the lowest income employees will reduce their income tax by CZK 270. 270 crowns on average! A fifth of the staff will do better. And do you know how much he'll do on average with the highest income? $3,000 for a bill of CZK 90 billion. This means Scandinavia and Germany on the one hand, Romania and Bulgaria on the other. It's not about citizens' mistrust. It's not about citizens' mistrust. It is about needing some kind of solidarity and justice in the state. [[2.00 hours]] I think there have been a lot of studies in the Czech Republic in recent weeks. The consumption argument that I also love to use - let's invest in people. Recently, we have managed as a government to enforce a shady 5,000 for not only old-age, but also disabled pensioners, as well as survivors, child allowances, excellent support for the consumption of the lowest income. But this proposal will not support the need in the Czech Republic because it helps the most rich. On average, those over $90,000 will improve by $44,000 a year. On average, 44,000 a year. Just this suggestion. Those are huge amounts. And the lowest, one fifth of the employees, CZK 270 a month. It's a terrible discrepancy. I am very worried as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, if we are going to have social services at this difficult time, at the time of the coronation, if we are going to have social services, if we can have fair pensions, because despite the record increases from past years, pensions in the Czech Republic are still very low. That is why we have tried every year to increase pensions beyond legal valorisation. But it's not gonna work now because there's gonna be a huge hole in the budget. And once again, social democracy wants to reduce labor taxation, that is the right step, but it has to be done in proportion, it must not simply be reduced to the rich, because it is a journey to Romania, Bulgaria. And I think the right solution is to really increase the tax credit and transfer it to the tax bonus, we don't have to discuss that here at all. So if somebody wanted to help this economy go the German way, they would have gone that way. I may not have to mention that the money will not only be lost by the state and public services, but also by the municipalities and regions. It won't be for investment. It will lead to another economic downturn. There won't be any money. At a time when we are facing an increase in unemployment again, there will be no money to support jobs. And I repeat once again, and I reject that argument which, according to President Stanjura's statement, would mean that the whole developed world and all Western Europe do not trust their citizens and goes the wrong way. Because the road that's being discussed here today, which is likely to pass, is a trip to Bulgaria and Romania. And I think we should all say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u109	Good evening. We'll continue the negotiations. First with priority rights for the club, Mr. Ferjenčík, then Mr.... And I'm sorry. With factual remarks, Mr Jureček and Mr Jurečka are here and Výborný in that order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. Have a good night. Two factual points. For one thing, I do not think that it is fair to set a pattern between the countries in which there are different high taxes, and to determine the standard of living there. We will find countries with higher taxation than us, a higher standard of living, a more sophisticated social system, countries that have significantly lower taxes, a lower overall tax quota, and they are also better off. So I don't like the proportions of some countries that are chosen like this. And the other thing. It's too bad the secretary just left. When I hear ministers speaking here today for social democracy, both Minister Zaorálek and Minister, we're hearing examples of there being no culture here and there's just gonna be shopping malls, so I'd expect social democracy to hit the table and say, we're just calling up coalition negotiations here, and we're either gonna agree and we're gonna find a common compromise, or we're gonna walk out of that government. - But you come here, you cry in the Chamber, you say how hard it is, what impact it will have. But then where is it, why are you in that government: where is your program, what are your ideas, what are you talking about? And then what happens? So Mr Babiš's proposal goes through, and you say, um, we've gone over it, and we're going to continue with the government. - What's the point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr. Výborný has withdrawn his comment, so we will return to the priority rights. Now, Mr Ferjenčík with priority rights with the opinion of the Czech Pirate Party Club, then Vice-President Fiala Petr. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess, I have always had such an idea when the state tries to manage, so it either goes the way that it cuts taxes and cuts spending, or goes the way that it increases taxes and provides some better services for it. And the government of Andrej Babiš is pretending to invent a perpetuum mobile for money, that it is possible to reduce taxes and at the same time give more money on the expense page, and that by some miracle, because Mr. Babiš is a genius the world has not seen, suddenly in the Czech Republic, in the only country in the world, it will happen and here it will finally work out. Here we will finally be the country that can reduce taxes at the same time, at the same time increase spending, and at the same time the budget will work. No, it's just not gonna work. That's not the way to do it. I remember when we were discussing various tax packages here at a time when we were arguing over a billion-dollar or a hundred-million-dollar budget, there was a $40 billion deficit, and it was handled as a big deal. And at that time, Minister Schillerová said openly about our proposals to increase the basic tax discount on the taxpayer to 30 grand, with the budgetary implications of CZK 19.4 billion on December 21, 2018: I will not support it, there are budgetary implications. Opinion of the Ministry of Finance Tax Package 2019: it is without an appropriate proposal for compensation, I will not support it. - Tax package 2020, once again increasing the discount to 30,000: significant budgetary effects, without an appropriate compensation proposal. - And we were talking about 20 billion crowns. Now we're talking about 90 billion crowns, almost five times the amount, and all of a sudden, there's no need for compensation. As the Committee on Budgets, we got a plan for the consolidation of public spending, which, after two years, somehow miraculously improves everything, and those expenses will stabilize themselves without being written in that law. The reason report here is that it's for two years, the President is wisely nodding his head here, telling the Prime Minister that it's more reasonable for the two years, the reason report is, except it's not in the law. And of course, no one's going to the election with a massive increase in labor taxation. We're getting into a very bad state budget situation, and completely unnecessary. Here, the Ministry of Finance has simply argued for years that it is not possible to valorize the discount on the taxpayer, which would be appropriate to valorise on inflation or on average wage growth, so that its price does not fall on value or its weight does not fall. That's why we're growing the average taxation of average wages over the long term. And after three years of not having money, the government will now come up with a proposal that has budget implications that are much bigger, no compensation, no savings, no faces, everything will be sunny. No, it's not sunshine. The government that comes after you will simply come to the budget, which will be scrapped, it will not be possible to raise pensions at the rate that has so far increased, it will not be possible to increase the salaries of civil servants at the rate that has so far increased, it will also have to be difficult to finance the 130 percent of teachers' salaries on education, it will be difficult to keep taxes for businessmen at the current level, because we simply will not have the money, we will pull the debt brake somewhere around 2025, 2026 and then threaten to increase the cost of managing the debt by increasing the interest that we will pay, and it will cost us again. In my opinion, the government should decide whether it wants to increase spending and have adequate income or reduce the expenditure and then reduce taxes. We definitely support some compromise, we support an increase in the taxpayer's discount, but to rip out 90 billion here, of which 30 billion strangers, and to pretend that nothing is happening, we just don't think there is a reasonable procedure. That is why we will not support Andrej Babiš's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. Mr Onderka will respond with a point of fact, and Vice-President Fiala will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Jurečka's speech through you. Colleague, there are experts, other political subjects to break up governments in the Czech Republic. All you have to do is look to the right. But you're a tough enough politician to even remember. That's one. And secondly, why is social democracy in this government, even if we may have a different opinion on some things? It's very simple. Because this government is fulfilling 90 percent of the program of left-wing social democracy, the programme that we promised our voters, and that is why social democracy is in this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u115	Thank you for respecting the time and now with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala, and then we should get to the ordinary general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u116	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, what are we talking about here today when we are talking about the abolition of the super-gross wage and 15% tax. In short, we are talking about the opportunity for about 4.5 million employees to make more money. And we have the opportunity to do it today, we have the opportunity to do it fairly, to do it without giving priority to one another, to do it forcefully and to do it quickly. We have an opportunity here to give people good news. Good news in difficult times. Good news for all employees regardless of the nature and place of work, because the proposal will help all those who are employed. And I think we'd make a huge mistake if we didn't take this opportunity. I believe that we will not make that mistake and that we will not move forward and that from New Year we will start counting down lower taxes, higher real earnings, to New Year we will start counting down lower taxes and higher real earnings from now on. This cancellation of supergross wages will save 4.5 million working people in the Czech Republic a significant amount. And people will save more than 50 percent of their monthly earnings through this decision over the course of the year. And I don't think anyone can question that it's a very strong help. That's a big help that people will feel. The debate here in the House. We often disagree in the House, but at one point, we seem to agree here in this discussion. When I look at what variants have been put forward to abolish super-gross wages, it seems that political unity has actually taken over in this one thing, and that is unity, that a super-gross wage needs to be abolished. Excellent. I'm glad we all came to this. But I'll remind you that this isn't an idea or an invention of recent times. We came here after years of effort, efforts to correct the mistake that happened in 2015, respectively. in 2014, when the then government in the same composition as today's, i.e. ČSSD and YES, or similar, then canceled the supergross wage. It canceled the abolition of the supergross wage and extended its duration to this day. The fact that we're supposed to cancel a super gross wage is a match, and that's a good thing. What are you doing here? On the contrary, Parliamentary clubs differ among themselves, which is the rate of tax reductions that we will associate with the abolition of a super-gross wage. And we're supposed to decide today how much we're going to help and whether we're going to help 4.5 million employees at all, whether they're going to see the money in their wallet, they're going to feel if they're going to make 50 percent more monthly wages every year, or if those 4.5 million people, employees, they're just gonna say that we're canceling super gross wages here, they're gonna make a lot of fuss for nothing, and they're not gonna feel it. Our position, the position of the Civil Democratic Party, is that we will support everything that falls under the first possibility for people to feel it, so that people will feel tax cuts, to see it in their account, in their wallet, to make a real contribution to their personal and family budget. And I will now convince you once more that it has meaning. So if we're canceling a super gross wage, and it's great that we got there after years, let's add a decisive tax reduction. Let us find the courage to bring good news to those employed in these difficult times. And here are some of my arguments. This proposal by the Civil Democratic Party is not a gift to the rich, as I sometimes hear here, and I hear it in this discussion. It's middle-class support. It's middle-class support, and my colleague, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, has already shown it convincingly, and it is support even to those less profitable employees. I'm not talking about extremes right now. I'll talk about the usual wage. Who's the proposition good for? Who's the proposition good for? For a lot of people. For example, it is a good proposal for an elementary school teacher and teacher. At the usual wage of 31,5 thousand. CZK 1,600 a month and CZK 19,200 a year. It's a good proposition for a kindergarten teacher. At the usual wage of 27.5 thousand. CZK will save CZK 1,400 a month and CZK 16,800 a year. They'll know. It's a good proposition for a nurse. We often talk about them these days. At the usual salary of CZK 31,100, it saves CZK 1,600 a month and CZK 19,000 a year - a nurse. It's a good proposition for a cop. At the usual salary CZK 37 900 saves CZK 1,900 a month and CZK 23,200 a year. It's a good proposition for a firefighter. We often talk about them, too. At the usual salary of CZK 33 600, it saves CZK 1,700 a month and CZK 20,000 a year. It's a good proposition for a saleswoman. And I'm sure those aren't the top income groups you're talking about. The saleswoman at the usual salary of CZK 20,500 a month saves CZK 1,000 and annually more than CZK 12,500. It's a good proposal for a mail carrier. He's also certainly not one of the highest income groups. At the usual salary of CZK 22,700 a month, it saves more than CZK 1,100 and more than CZK 13,800 a year. He'll know that, too. It's a good proposition for a worker. At the usual wage at the limit of CZK 20,000 a month, it saves CZK 1,000 and CZK 12,000 a year. And, of course, it's a good proposal for a sales rep or a programmer. At their usual wage, over CZK 40,000 saves about CZK 2,000 a month and an average of CZK 24,000 a year. Ladies and gentlemen, these are these particular people, these particular professions that will help our proposal. As you can see from the ODS side what we've been promoting here for years, that's just a good suggestion. Ladies and gentlemen, that is a good suggestion for all employees, and on specific examples, I think I have shown it to you convincingly. Now, of course, there is also a question on the table, and I am not losing the question at all, on the contrary, there is the question of whether it is the right time to do so today and whether we can actually afford it. So the perfect time was 1. 1. 2015 when the abolition of the supergross wage was to occur, it was already approved and stopped by the then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. I'm bohužel so. But that's when it happened. That was a good time for sure. The excellent time was 2018, when the Civil Democratic Party presented this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies in summer, but at that time it was simply not the will of the government majority to deal with it at that ideal time. The government even gave a disagreeable opinion back then. I'm bohužel so. So it was the perfect time. [[22.20 hours]] And is today a good time? Yes, we in the ODS believe that today is a good time, that it is appropriate to look for every way to give people more money. I am even convinced, and I am not alone in the world, that taxes are to be reduced precisely in times of economic uncertainty. It is in those times that people need money, and this is how we can help them. So it's a good time, it's a good time to give people good news at the wrong time. And let them decide what to do with the money. I'm not mocking the other question that was raised here either. That's the question of how much public finances it's going to cost and whether we can afford it. And on that note, let me make two comments. Note one. In the public debate, different amounts will fall, how much will be missing in the state budget if the tax is 15%. But even from a government that certainly has the best professional capacity available, we have never heard a well-founded amount that would be higher than 55 or 60 billion, of which less than 40 billion for the state budget. And that's even a slightly lower amount, the 40 billion that the ODS has found here in the last three years, as an amount that can be saved by item, and we have always suggested that it be deleted. The savings we have proposed have always been higher in the state budget in the last three years than CZK 40 billion. So let's just give the money to people, let's lower their taxes, and to some extent we're going to create pressure, we're going to force the government to find the money. And they're there. We've been showing it in the past few years. We can do that now. And let us also help the regions and municipalities. For example, the resources we can get for them lie in European budgets, such as the Recovery Fund. There are now funds available. Let us, for example, redirect this money to municipalities and regions, which can also compensate for lower incomes. The second and substantial question, the question of where to take it and whether we can afford it, and I say that, with all due respect, to the doubts raised from some politicians of middle-right or liberal economists. Ladies and gentlemen, let us trust the principles we trust. Let's trust them when we have the chance. In recent years, we have the highest tax burden ever measured by a compound tax quota in the modern history of the Czech Republic. So let's not just criticize it, and the criticism is justified, but let's change it now that we have the opportunity. Let's trust the principles that we apply to, and let's return those principles to our country's administration. Let's move some of the money, and we believe that as people of the center right mind, let's move some of the money that the government is working with back to the people. Back to the people who produced them and made them. And let us trust that what people do with them is the only right thing to do. Because in the first place, it's their money. I believe that, and that is why I think it is right to lower taxes and that it is right to take advantage of the opportunity to reduce taxes, we now have such an opportunity, and that we also have the conditions for doing so. And let's also put pressure on the current government, and I believe that in a year, and on that government, which will be completely different, so that we here, our principles that we have been saying for years, our principles that we believe in, so that we also have to meet them. And just the temporary blackout that's going to be, the tax blackout, let's pay with savings to run the state. That's the solution. Let's save on the state, but let's not spare on the people. And note one last. Yes, we've had a government here for years that hasn't used that period of economic growth. That's just a fact. And now we have a period of uncertainty, and now we may have a crisis, and we are experiencing a crisis caused by pandemics, and we have the opportunity to make this crisis an opportunity. And all we have to do is be brave. We have the courage to vote in favour of tax reductions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u117	Thank you. We have exhausted the priority rights at the moment, so I ask Mr Dolejš to speak in the general debate, and Mrs Nevludová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor. Thank you at 22, almost 30, we were supposed to start at two o'clock, you can see that there is a really good log in front of us and talk about it, we might still be able to do that, but it's not easy to think about it. You know, I don't want to stretch it out because the time has progressed, even though we may have already left the last subway, but there is something to be said especially from the point of view of how he thought about the outcome of today, our club KSČM has suffered a bit, because we really are not in a simple situation. The situation is actually created by the elections in 2017. We all know that the election was essentially won by one or the other, but still by the right and that a paradoxical situation arose, that, despite this, a minority government arose, which is partly bound by the reduced, weakened, yet existing political left. So normally the right might be rolling parliament, but it's not happening. We are witnessing various tactical steps, maneuvers, etc., and now we are in a situation that has a conceptual and strategic nature in its own way, but at the same time we are in a crisis that is economic, epidemiological, etc. And logically, there are situations that were hard to imagine at all before, because before us the proposal is essentially equal tax inserted into the tax package of the government. I feel from the performance of my colleagues at the right wall that they're basically starting to celebrate, because years ago they probably couldn't even imagine that 15% of the flat tax was pronounced, even though of course it's not an ideal equal tax, there's that rate of 23 percent, etc., etc. These types of equal taxes in the world are different, but it's just a bizarre situation. And so we have, as I said, a government that is not naked or dressed from the point of view of right logic, it is not even a government that walks or rides a car. And there has been a certain step that has a character that is not strategically discussed and prepared, but it is an extraordinary step, and, of course, in its extraordinary nature, it can be assessed that it was largely unprepared, unnecessary, possibly unsuccessful. Because if we are in crisis, it is logical that I respond to the crisis by means of crisis. If this situation is temporary and extraordinary, the measures should also be temporary and exceptional. But the introduction of a 15% tax is a step systemic, relatively permanent, such a thing is difficult to change. And I think he'd be a very naive person who would think a miracle would happen in 2022, stop paying, and start building a completely different tax system. It's very complicated. Of course, this will affect the outcome of the elections in 2021, but it simply contradicts the fact that we are actually talking about extraordinary measures, such as when people do not have jobs or have limited opportunities to pay them, in a way that we do not raise wages, so at least we want to reduce taxes. [[22.30 hours]] So it's kind of a situation that's in a way very special. No wonder you can't even shield her with a coalition shield, that the coalition partners, the minority government, didn't agree on this matter. But logically, when the government is minority and even unnegotiated, a voting coalition is formed in a completely different way in the political spectrum. Now, of course, the question is, who will vote in the finals and to what extent his arguments are thought out, the corresponding position of voters, and to what extent hypocritical arguments are used. And I think it would be hypocritical if we were to look forward to the voters, who, even for the little hundred that they can get because of the increase in net wages, were to hide it from them, that somebody eventually has to pay for it. That if we don't have money and we have to spend money not only because we have a big state, but because we have to cope with the crisis, there is no other way to deal with it, of course, than with debt at the moment. But do we want to go into debt every year? In 2021, 2022, 2023? And didn't we also happen to be talking on this House's land that we'd like to consolidate the public finances, which means that we'd kind of step on the brake pedal, and that essentially those debts should end at some point in time in the horizon, and that economy should recover by other mechanisms? At the same time, I think it's very simplistic to offer people the pleasure of that one hundred crown, but we're not saying that it's not at all true that they're all going to be the same. Equal tax, the word equals an illusion of its kind in that it is an equality formal, nominal, but not socially real. Just for a guy who makes the minimum and gets an extra hundred, he spends it on his family to buy bread, milk, etc. and he's got nothing. But the guy who's on the upper floors, and he's right about Stanjura, when he's quoting that there's not a lot of people back here, the guy who gets five, six, I don't know how much more than a thousand, so if he doesn't have a project right now, he's gonna put it in the gutter, and the money doesn't fly in the economy. It just has them for its, I would say, even more uplifting economic level sometime in the future. So that's what people eventually realize. Let's not think they won't get it. And of course, we sometimes catch it from our constituents when we discuss that this solution is provisional, but some because they say, "Okay. I'm looking forward to getting that $100, too, but you, MP... And we're not in the two-, three-, four-fold average wage category. The Member's pawn is not on this plane, but it is definitely above average and earns more. So if we freeze our salaries -- we're amazed at the world, we're freezing our salaries, we're going forward with our shirts unbuttoned -- but at the same time, we're going to increase our income by reducing our taxes, and maybe we're going to have even more money, well, like these people see, of course. That is why I say that it would be hypocritical to hide it from them and that we must therefore realise that the variations that are on the table are not optimal, but each has these very complex connections. Yes, the Babiš option means 15 and 23 percent, a budget blackout. And, of course, yes, they'll help you out with the extra income. If we change that, we're not gonna put the money back in the register. Even social democracy now proposed 19 and 23, but I observed that it had discussed various variations in the summer. They also said three rates, something like ours. They didn't end up doing it. Why? Probably not the solidarity argument, because the more rates have primarily solidarity functions, not fiscal ones, where you just don't make the money. But they said maybe the fight wasn't worth it when, in fact, billions of them wouldn't come back that much. So they also balance the fact that they have to decide whether to go more courageously into matters such as bank tax, tax progression, or just to provide, for example, a trick, which will also put a punch in the state register if it is approved simultaneously, and that is in addition to the abolition of the supergross wage and the discounts. If you approve of both, it's not just the 70 billion, it'll be extra money. And I dare not, Madam Secretary, begin to correct me, speculate on the subject of a food flat-rate, because we are not discussing the way we eat. But objectively, it's a chance for tax optimization, and those businesses are just gonna take advantage of it. So these little estimates can become unrealistic and they can be significantly larger. But enough of those particular numbers. I just wanted to say that the variations are different. That even the option of social democratic doesn't solve the essence of being in a situation where we are actually in crisis, yes, we are going to pay off debts, but that we should figure out what the next step, step B and C will be. We have the option - and I wanted to remind you, because I know where I am, what the distribution of forces is, and after all what the procedure is probably going to be, so I know that if we vote gradually, it may not even happen that we don't even vote. But we put it there for one clear reason to send out a signal that in this situation, it is unfair if the element of solidarity does not appear in it. We put in the three rates, we left the 15 because we understand that even those with low incomes need help in this regime, but that rate 23 for double income, that's just a few people, and four times income, 32 percent. Do you think those people who have four times their income wouldn't be able to take that rate? They just don't want to do it, which I understand. So that's this thing. Third point, I only have four, so don't be scared. So the third point is that the impacts, if we somehow figure them out, let's say super gross 70, these discounts can give some 10, 15 and the food flat rate, well, we're going to go close to 100 billion to round it up. And this is a blackout that will not only be reflected in the state budget, not only will it complicate the payment of public services - and here I disagree that the less the state, the better for a free taxpayer, we also have the state to maintain strong, high-quality and affordable public services, including pensions and health. Well, then the money just won't be. Not to mention postponed structural reforms. We know where we stand when it comes to the pension board. And now imagine the little thing, we all live somewhere, somewhere in some county, some city, some village, that we're talking about shared taxes, and that, as far as territories, regions and municipalities are concerned, I think it's a very modest estimate when we say that there's 10 percent less revenue. So what do we do about it? Well, logically, this year we did it by forwarding, thanks to debts, we sent over some compensations. They are not planned in the next year's budget. So logically, if these communities lose the money, then I guess there'll be political pressure and we'll have to deal with it again. Even we have two options on the table today, i.e. sometimes we approve compensation, that's the option I personally consider more realistic. And such a variant, which may be easier to sell politically, but is less real, is that we are going to touch on the budgetary determination of taxes. But that has one basic problem. In a situation where we're in debt, when we're growing that axe in the state budget, we're going to transfer the money, part of the money on the edge and the community, where they could, of course, use it. But we don't make new money. We'd cut the state budget by that amount. Well, that's a problem. So we're just gonna have to get out of this trap in some way. And so I get to the finals if I say we're not going to vote to cancel the super-gross wage in this form, which means, I mean, in that form, the Prime Minister. Let's see how this vote plays out. But, of course, I have some idea about arguing. So if I'm going to work with the option that it's going to pass, I think it's all about the political responsibility of those who have decided on this option. Because it cannot be held as a stable element of the tax system. You just can't. Either she's gonna have to cut herself off, or she's gonna continue to pay her debts. I say for us that we do not want to cut, even if we improve the state, rationalise its structure, yes. But you just can't reduce it. And debts, let's hope we don't all want to. We see the debt spiral as a risk. So there's just a decision in front of us to straighten things out. Of course there's gonna be a debate before the election. But let's see if we're capable of rational thinking at all. [[2.40 hours]] The first correction can come from the Senate. If it's being pushed over by some kind of idea over the package, we're not gonna be much help. Another correction, and I dare to guess it might be with the fact that by spring we can have a draft amendment to the State Budget Act on our desk. We are simply going to have to deal with everything we do with this tax package, and I am leaving aside the questions of the macroeconomic development forecast, and this in itself will cause the amendment. And let's talk about it there, since we couldn't do it here anymore and we couldn't do it. One conclusion is that, in the end, in addition to voting on amendments, which will be voted in a rather skewed way, such is the distribution of forces, I am a realist, so we need to think about the next steps. The amendment to the budget and the debate on concepts, consolidation and, of course, the issue of the electoral term in 2021. We are really prepared to accept the tax package as such. I personally, therefore, first of all, because I respect the opinion of the majority of the club, but let's just say that this is not the end of it, but it begins because the debate that was influenced by the hybrid state of policy that arose after the 2019 elections clearly comes across its limits and some of the problems are opening up to us, which I felt strong déjà vu when I listened to the debates on equal taxation, which took place here with almost similar arguments about 20 years ago, when the first wave of call for equal taxation was here. Of course, there can be legitimately different views on this, but also the fact is that if we remain on the European continent, so much more frequent is the equal tax in the East, Romania, Albania, Ukraine, and countries like France, Germany, etc. the taxes are completely different. All of this just needs to be considered. Today we have to vote, so we may not be able to handle the strategic context in this regard, but it is also in the direction of voters and citizens a clear signal of responsibility that we must hurry and catch up on the strategic debate in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. And now, Mrs Nevludová, Mr Veselý will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a nice working evening and, if I may, I would once again ask you to support my amendment, which you will find under the letter. E. I realize that my proposal is most radical of all, in quotation marks, but it would bring up to CZK 8 billion to the state register in three years to come. The Treasury isn't exactly having a good time. We're looking for every crown here, so I don't see why the tax on classic tobacco should go up, not the heated one that has hundreds of thousands of users. The increase in taxes for so far-privileged heated tobacco is also a trend in other developed countries. It has recently done so, for example. Japan or South Korea, where this form of tobacco consumption is even more popular than in our country. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance on my amendment is neutral with the fact that there is a risk of cross-border purchases of heated tobacco products by Czech citizens, because such a large increase in rates should already be reflected in prices, which could have a negative impact on the estimated development of state budget revenues. According to the current information available to me, only Poland is a country in which heated tobacco products are taxed less than in the Czech Republic and are therefore cheaper. The risk of cross-border purchases is therefore relatively small and this argument is not relevant if we look at other neighbouring countries and the developments that will follow them in the next three years. All available information indicates what the current trend in the EU countries is and that the Czech Republic would only follow this trend by adopting my amendment. Slovakia can be cited as an example. The Slovak Government adopted a three-year tax calendar with a planned increase in excise duty in particular for these heated tobacco products. Last time at the second reading here in front of me, it was quite loud from my colleague Vondrák's mouth: and what are those heated tobacco products anyway? It doesn't tell a smoker much, which is why in a nutshell a brief summary. The main common feature of heated tobacco products is the fact that tobacco mixtures are heated with a battery heating system instead of burning it. The tobacco mixture is heated to a lower temperature than the burning cigarette, creating the aerosol that the user inhales. Just yesterday at the newsroom, I was buying newspapers this morning. I put the money on the mat where IQOS product advertising was, which is the product of the largest distributor on our market. IQOS means in translation: I quit regular smoking. That's a, but we don't know the B anywhere, and I'd call it, I'm quitting regular smoking, and I'm starting to smoke something else, no less harmful. Tobacco products are not just pure tobacco. These are tobacco mixtures that are enriched with additives that promote the rate of absorption of nicotine into the body. And that's the biggest risk of these products. Yes, it is proven that when the tobacco mixture is heated, it gets smaller amounts of tar into the body than when burning and inhaling smoke from a classic cigarette, but that's it. The user's inhaling other chemical compounds is not much to be talked about. I have two children myself, and when I had a long talk with Professor Králíková from the tobacco treatment company, how openly I talk to the children about the fact that I know they're gonna taste alcohol once, I know they're gonna try a cigarette, which one of us didn't? But she told me that it is particularly dangerous for these tobacco mixtures and products. Even the first taste. Dependence may occur after a few first uses. And then you see the beautiful young people with the machine in their hands who think they smoke healthier, less harmful. It's not true. And it is in the category of the youngest smokers that, according to the statistics of the State Health Institute for 2019, the biggest increase in users in the category of alternative products for classic cigarettes is. However, with all due respect for Mr Stanjura and Volný Freený's proposals, such a significant increase in the prices of cigarettes and cut tobacco for the second year in a row would make a significant contribution to the rise in the black market and thus increase cross-border purchase. Only in our Moravian-Silesian region is each third box different from the Czech stamp, so it is not taxed in the Czech Republic, which is confirmed by statistics of customs administration. According to statistics of the State Health Institute, most of the most common users of cut tobacco are men of the 50's age from a socially weaker population. And this is the kind of people that we could increase one pack of cut tobacco, which costs roughly CZK 120, by roughly CZK 81 instead of moving this increase where there is space, and that is just heated tobacco products. The group of users of these products is a group that can afford it. Only a heating machine costs about 2.5 thousand crowns and an average smoker, if we count that he smokes a box per day, smokes to about 3,000 crowns per month. It follows that it is certainly not cheaper than smoking classic cigarettes. Generally, the consumption of classic cigarettes sold for a longer period of time stagnates or decreases slightly, even because part of our classic cigarettes smokers moved to those heated tobacco products. In short, for these reasons, I believe that the increase in rates especially for cigarettes and cut tobacco will have a number of negative effects and will not lead to a projected increase in the revenue of the state budget. In my opinion, there is no reason for the excise duty rate to be kept so low on heated tobacco products by the State. In this case, the state is losing an interesting additional income to the state budget, and it does not approach the budget with proper care. So I would be very happy if you would support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. Next is Mr Veselý's debate, Mr Klaus will be prepared. And I'll ask for peace in the hall! We're discussing the press at third reading, I understand it's an advanced hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, good evening at this late, almost non-Christian hour. I would like to bind you to my contribution, which, unlike my predecessor, will be more ideal. I'm gonna follow up on my colleague Dolejš and I'm gonna go this way. I pre-advise my colleagues from the ODS that I will use their brand quite often in my speech, but that is logical. When we talk about an idea conflict, the definition is part of the ODS proposals not personal, but really ideal. We are discussing a law that did not originally have to look like one, but in my view, it is the most important law that we have discussed so far in this parliamentary term, and we are likely to discuss it because it is a law whose resulting form can fundamentally influence the form of our country, where it will move, where it will evolve, for a number of years to come, if we acknowledge that tax policy should be predictable and somehow stable. It will also not surprise you that, as a leftist politician, I will take a clear leftist view, that is, the view that the state should be strong, that is, to have a strong public service. A service that will take care of its citizens, which will be of good quality and which will also be available. At the same time, I am aware, and I am sure all of us, that the covido crisis currently affects most of our country's population very negatively, but the group to which it hits worst and hardest, are low-income, possibly medium-income employees, from my point of view, employees who have income up to 1.5 times the average wage, and low- and medium-income entrepreneurs, self-employed farmers and small farmers, which I consider to be those who have income or turnover up to 1 million crowns per year. From this point of view, I will also evaluate the various amendments made to the tax package which tend to change it in a fundamental way against the way it was originally proposed. It must be said that some amendments came directly from the Ministry of Finance. What proposals, then, do I consider to be those that, say, have a balanced mix to support those to whom the cod crisis is worst and at the same time do not have to completely destroy public budgets. Of course, it has already been said here, and I will remind you again, we are not just talking about the state budget, but we are also talking about the budgets of regions and municipalities. In my opinion, abolishing a super-gross wage is the right step. It's a pasquil that was once introduced here, which pulled money out of people's wallet in an absolutely absurd way and actually taxed their income as if twice. Another proposal, which will certainly also be painful from the point of view of public finances, but it is precisely because it helps in particular low-income population groups, is proposals to increase the deductible amount of tax. And here I have announced in advance that I will support all these proposals, and I hope that at least one of them will be accepted. As far as tax rates are concerned, I logically consider the proposal of my party leader, Jan Hamáček, i.e. income tax of 19 and 23 percent, because, combined with the deductible item, they will help fundamentally low-income groups of the population, but will not over-help those who are high-income. And I'm going to say one more thing that hasn't been mentioned yet, and that's a thing that probably doesn't stand a chance of success, but it's a reduction in excise duty on diesel for farmers. The blackout against the others is not so huge, although it would have been previously considered huge, but the aid to farmers, especially if we are talking about food self-sufficiency, I also consider it very important. I'm sure we can agree that these tax changes mean a public deficit of approximately CZK 100 billion a year. Of course, we don't know the exact number, we have to build on the static data that we're talking about here, but it's going to be about that kind of blackout. Funeral, and I am very sorry about that, is very few in the proposals and in the amendments, very few in the proposals, which, on the contrary, increase the revenue of the state. These are already mentioned colleagues Nevludová, for example, proposals for the taxation of tobacco or heated tobacco, and these are some of the proposals in the area of gambling, but that is very few. In addition to these proposals, which I will logically support, because they create a balanced mix of me, but here we also have proposals that, in my view, go absolutely against a balanced mix and clearly propose to balance tax policies for the benefit of the high-income population at the expense of the low-income population. I will also mention those proposals that we have already adopted and which are already running in some way, but I think they need to be mentioned in some logical context. However, the first proposal is Mr Babiš's proposal to introduce an income tax of 15 and 23 %. It's been said many times that it's nothing but so-called. equal tax. That means the Dream of ODS. I understand that the ODS is excited about him because it's her long-term dream. And it is absurd that even when the ODS had over 80 Members, it failed to push for such a thing. And today, when she has less than a third, she has a huge chance of finally having her dream. Well, co-workers, co-workers, it's logical. He's already said it here, colleague Dolejš. It's just this House has most of the conservative right. The leader of the ANO movement never hid itself by the fact that the ideas of the conservative right are quite closest to him. After the election, he also tried to build the first coalition with the ODS, but it didn't work out. However, he does not abandon these thoughts. It is therefore clear, and ANO here clearly shows that it is a conservative right-wing party, which, of course, mixes elements of heavy populism, which makes it absurdly, absurdly manage to address especially the left-wing conservative voters on which its electoral achievements stand. However, the proposals are clearly conservative. Then here we have loss carryback, acceleration of depreciation of property, cancellation of tax on real estate transfer, respectively. from purchase, tax flats and meal vouchers. When we add all these proposals together, we probably add another 100 billion to the original 100 billion a year from public budgets, and I may still be a great optimist. Now let's think about it. We have a public budget blackout of CZK 200 billion every year. As has been said here, here some original promise that it's for two years, some of it just isn't, it's not being realized, it's a public budget blackout of 200 billion every year. With the layout of this blackout, we find some 130 billion a year, municipalities 50 billion a year, and at the edge of 20 billion a year. I guess it's obvious something's gonna have to change. Just the country, the Czech Republic, as it has so far worked, cannot continue to function with such blackouts. Something else is going to happen. And I dare to draw three scenarios that may follow. And let's all think about which of these scenarios we'd like. [[23.00 hours]] The first scenario is the Greek scenario. I guess we can all imagine what that means. It's a spiral of endless debt. This means that the Czech Republic will borrow 200 billion each year for this debt. It will, of course, go quite well at the beginning, because the state of public finances in the Czech Republic is quite decent at the moment and can be lent at low prices and we can now say that we are better off with regard to public debt than Austria, Germany and actually almost anyone else. But this will take quite a while. Then the lending won't be that easy, but we'll always say that we're still better off than France, Italy, Spain and Greece. It's gonna take a few years, too. But then we'll say, but we're still better than Greece, and then we're done. The debt of the state and public finances would be so great that people would lose their savings, and we all remember the Greek scenario, which meant that people simply couldn't withdraw their money from the banks because banks couldn't give it to them, ATMs didn't work and there was a total collapse of public budgets. I think we can agree that none of us here wants this scenario. However, I mention it because it is not unlikely at all. Why? Because the Greek script means nothing else will be done. And given how hard it is to find an agreement on anything, the Chamber of Deputies is fragmented on a number of sides, so the Greek scenario is likely. The moment we don't agree on anything else, it just comes to him. That's why I mention him, and I consider it the second most likely option. The second scenario is a Scandinavian scenario. I call him a scenario of responsibility, prosperity, justice and solidarity. It is a scenario where the rich contribute to a much larger share of their income and the poor, those with medium and low incomes, also contribute, but according to their possibilities and so that it does not damage them, and together they lead a state that has a rich network, a network available, a good network of public services such as health care, a social network such as culture, such as the environment. Unfortunately, this model, which is logically closest to me - and I believe that it is the most beneficial for the inhabitants of our country - is the least likely. It is simply because, at the moment, the last 29 left-wing Mohicans remain in the Chamber of Deputies, who simply can't do much against the rest, even though I acknowledge that there are other parties who are joining these ideas, and if the black predictions of the next election are fulfilled for the left-hand side, it will simply not be better. This model means a complete change in the tax structure so that the rich contribute more and that the poor are better protected. So there's just no such proposal here, and even if it did fall, it's absolutely impervious to the House's current composition. And then the scenario is the third, which I unfortunately consider most likely at the moment, and I believe that is precisely what we are going to do if we approve of the high state budget outages. I call him the British-American script. The scenario is that the state has relatively low tax revenues, but everything, everything is privatized in quotation marks. The privatization is too flat-rate, but it basically expresses it quite accurately. This means that the public service will not be available to all, and I would even say that almost half of the population will be unavailable. We've already seen these attempts to introduce paid health care in the form of medical fees, but now we wouldn't be talking about ten crowns, but rather hundreds of crowns for residents. We've already heard attempts to introduce tuition, we can already imagine much higher payments to social services, say, granny in a retirement home, another, we can imagine high payments to, say, amateur or volunteer or leisure activities such as circles like culture. All these services will be low-income for the group, which means today on average wages, they will become virtually unavailable because they simply will not be available for them. For those medium-incomers they become very expensive and available at the cost of great poverty. For example, when we imagine a model, an American model of education, higher education for most Američan means that it will be heavily indebted for their children to study, or students will be indebted for many years in advance. When we imagine British education, it seems that those public schools in quotation marks are very, very poor quality and basically who wants to move on with education and with any future, they must pay for expensive private elementary schools from primary schools. Let's imagine health care in this model. We see it both in Britain and especially in the United States at this time when pandemics come, that the poor just don't have a medical service, they don't get to it and they die on the streets. Just because we have a massive health system doesn't happen in our country, but we can, by changing our taxes, as proposed in the most extreme cases, let go of your blood. It is simply a privatisation of public services that will cease to be available for low-income population groups. What will happen to public budgets if the worst-case scenario is adopted? The state's spending is probably not going to be reflected next year, because the Treasury, and I am not thinking about the state budget as it is now presented, but about its change, which will be forced to come up in the first quarter of next year, so it will go through the Greek script. This means that the Ministry of Finance will do a Greek scenario for next year that we will borrow money massively and will not see it in the state's spending. [[Nesroz.]] But that's no longer an option for municipalities and regions, they won't be able to afford it anymore, which means that the British-American model I mentioned will start paying for it. Those regions and the municipalities will have to cut their expenses sharply. It will not only be about repairing or repairing the pavement, because repaired or not repaired the pavement will not bother those people in the first, second or third years, but everyone who is in the communal and what we are on the outskirts, we know that regions and municipalities strongly support the area of culture, the area of amateur sport, the area of social services, in the case of regions and the area of health, and it will begin to manifest itself there. The public service will be far out of reach in the next year. In conclusion, these are all the reasons that lead me to believe that if the scenarios that damage public budgets by hundreds of billions of crowns go through, I cannot support such a proposal. And I'm begging you - I understand that the ODS is going to come true of an old dream, and I don't expect anything from it there, but I'm asking all of you to think about what our country should look like. If it's to be built on a Scandinavian model, whether it's to be built on a Greek model, or whether it's to be built on a British-American model of unavailable public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u123	Thank you, too. The next will be Mr. Václav Klaus. Mr Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, it's the middle of the night, so I'll be very, very brief. For the Tricolor movement, I must say I'm happy. Maybe it's one of the first two three cases in this House. Because we are always voting against tax increases here, out of conviction, and today, perhaps for the first time, we will vote for taxes, reductions. So that's the positive thing, and hopefully we'll get the vote. The other one. I can't stop being fascinated by the fact that people who criticize us here overvoking us, doing 50 billion and higher deficits at a time of deep well-being, giving 40 billion to reform education funding, filling more or less half-empty schools at the expense of teachers, 7 billion at inclusion, 17 billion at political nonprofits, and this is how we can continue the resort from the resort, and now for the first time in their lives, they're very concerned about the balance of the state budget. Our attitude is quite simple. I promised the voters, and I'll keep it that we always vote for lower taxes. The taxation of work in the Czech Republic is extreme, hidden under the names of social, health, paid by the employee, employer and so on, and we will support any reduction, so we will support both Mr Kupka's amendment and Mr Babiš's amendment. [[23.10 hours]] It is completely irrelevant if the proposal is perfect, imperfect, that it should have been done differently, that someone else should have done it. The current situation is that either we approve this proposal or there will simply be no reduction in labour taxes. It is a historic moment, tens of billions of crowns we are finally moving from the hands of the government, from the hands of Minister Maláčová and other people who know how to spend well to the citizens. And I believe that they know much better what they want with money than through elected government representatives, all possible authorities and so on. What am I gonna say next? We will not support any increase in taxes, or we will not vote in favour of an increase in tobacco tax. The ODS isn't so right here anymore, because, as I've been looking at their proposal, it's even more extreme than the government proposal, especially for the tobacco packed. That's what my colleague Majerová called me, I don't smoke, I'm not a specialist, but she told me, and I believe her that it's the poorest citizens who are more likely to smoke it, buying to pack the cigarette themselves, telling her father-in-law, and so on. So we're not gonna support anything like that. Also, all the different gambling taxes that keep getting expensive, cigarette taxes and so on. This will only result in you destroying the entire other industries we have. Maybe smoking isn't great, but sometimes when I take a breath of fresh air on the balcony, I see you smoking there a lot. I guess that's it. Of course my role model is Wyoming, it's a beautiful state that hardly has any taxes, but I don't think I'm gonna live to see that. But I'm gonna end up like I started. Today is a joyous day, and we will support all these tax reductions that are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u125	Thank you. Next is Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u126	After a long drive, who owes the Czech Republic and ruins the state budget more, I finally got to the word. Here I would say that this is the victory of the YES movement, which is actually ruining the budget. I would like to take this opportunity to read the legislative technical amendment to my SD amendment, which is originally under SD number 6644, in such a way that the comments of a legislative technical nature from the Ministry which has supplied the opponent to the Committee on Budgets are answered in such a way as to clarify exactly what is covered by the abolition of the minimum assessment base, in such a way that the amendment would be amended in a new way that Section 2a reads: The minimum assessment base for pension insurance premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy determined under Section 5b (1). 2 of Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, amounts to at least CZK 0 in the calendar year 2021. It is actually a clarification that says that this is the whole calendar year 2021, so that this is clearly understandable and is consistent with the justification of the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of ČSSD Jan Chvojka reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u128	Thank you for the floor. I think it would be a shame if we couldn't vote after 12 o'clock, or 24 o'clock, or 24 o'clock. I know there's an interpretation that we can, in principle, but I would prefer to have this voted on as a precaution. [[The chairman is gonging.]] So I ask that, in the context of prevention to ensure that there is no questioning, we vote that this point, the third reading of this tax package, if we fail to do so by 24 o'clock, as if it were not, will be a long vote to discuss this point after the 24 o'clock beating. This means that we should vote on this point, on amendments and on the law as a whole after 24 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u129	Thank you. I have convened Members who are outside the Chamber. We will vote on the procedural proposal. We would precautionaryally vote that we can vote on the law and all amendments after 24 hours. I'll check you out. Please log in with your ID cards. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 4, 78 Members registered, for 59, were against 3. The motion was accepted. Mr Jan Skopeček will continue to speak in the debate. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Sorry, with a point of fact, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Radek Vondráček, is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u130	Me for ten seconds. I'm glad the House has decided as a souvenir. I would just like to point out once again on the screen record that there are several binding opinions of both legislation and lawyers, that when the vote is made that it can be voted after 21 p.m., it does not have to be voted after 24 p.m., it is automatically there. The date of the hearing shall in effect end at 9 a.m. on the following day. We've had this place many times. I'm glad the House expressed its will that we're gonna make it tonight, but please, we didn't have to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u131	Thank you, but I have yet to have this proposal voted in the framework of prevention. [[The gayness across the O.R.]] Mr Jan Skopeček will speak in the debate. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u132	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. Prosecuting views of me being short. I'll try to fill it up. After all, at the beginning of the debate, I was already speaking in factual terms. I'm a little sad that the tax package went down on that super gross wage, because that law contains a whole bunch of other, positive and less positive proposals for me. We will also vote to increase the basic discount on the taxpayer, the thing I proposed in the Chamber of Deputies about five times, never had your support. I'm not upset that someone else is serving it right now, and maybe they'll get the support. Still, let us face it that the supergross wage is, in fact, both in terms of the amount of money and in terms of the importance of the tax, the most important thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u133	Colleagues, I understand it's an advanced class, which is why I don't understand the increased activity. I would ask you to calm down so that we can finish the speech in the general debate and get to the vote. The sooner we get this over with, the better. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u134	After all, I would like to ask that we also distinguish between the individual proposals for the abolition of the supergross wage, and I would like to ask that you pay attention to the proposal of the citizens' democrats, which contains one rate of tax, i.e. 15%. It is, in my opinion, the best, simple, transparent and fair option that we will vote on. I do not agree that this step would be budgetaryly irresponsible. As I said before, the problem with public finances is on the spending side of the budget. If you look at the last few years, between 2014 and 2019, state budget revenues have increased by almost 400 billion. If we had a bit of a responsible government, which is able to save a little bit, this increase in state budget revenue, this huge increase in state budget revenue in a few years, it would certainly be enough for the state, as we discussed here with Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, to have on diesel for police officers and firefighters, and yet it could be smaller and more efficient. [[23.20 hours]] I'm sure we'll do the right thing today if we lower our taxes. As I said before, we have historically the highest tax burden since 1993. And if we're all here, most of us voted in favour of spending programs, subsidies, subsidies to businessmen, entrepreneurs, employees at a time when we wanted to relieve and help, when the economy was closed, when employees couldn't work, when entrepreneurs couldn't do business, nobody here was interested in budget responsibility. Budgetary responsibility is particularly raised by the Social Democrats at a time when it is possible to reduce the above-average tax burden of Czech employees. I don't think that's fair. I think it's a good time to cut taxes. It will be a fiscal impulse for the economy at a time when it is not quite well. And I believe that at least part of the resources lost by the State through the reduction of the tax burden will be returned to the State through consumption. It won't be as much as we used to in standard times, in standard economic growth times, when people had stable incomes. Now it can be expected that they will keep some of the savings that will bring them tax cuts in their wallets, but some of them will surely be spent, and at least part of the state's loss of CZK 80 billion will be returned to excise duties. While we are discussing one of the most important decisions that this House will make in the field of taxation, but since - and I understand that it is half-past eleven - it is a very small part of the House, there is already about a five-member group that is discussing here, I will probably end my speech, because it seems that it does not make any sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u135	Mr. Ambassador, you're right. I'd like to ask the crowds that started making out to us here, if we could disband them, calm down and try to negotiate this point in a reasonable time. [[Mr Skopeček wants to take the floor immediately.]] No, no, no, no. We have time. We probably have time... Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u136	I think it's easy. Anyone who wants low taxes, cheap and efficient state, on the one hand, will support tax reductions and, on the other hand, will seek savings in the state budget, for which the ODS is ready and what it is willing to support and for what it has called on the government and the Ministry of Finance. Anyone who wants to redistribute people's money, spend on foreign money, will prefer the amendment of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, who wants to raise taxes to businessmen in this difficult time. I simply collect cheaper, small effective state and low taxes. And I beg you to support this, too, because I am convinced that this is, again, the last opportunity for such a significant tax reduction for a long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. Mr Petr Dolínek will speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I am incredibly pleased with the last five-hour effort by colleagues from the ODS to explain the unexplained. They just decided they didn't care about the public finances. Now, through Mr President, Mr Skopeček here says that he has chosen a party. But he's wrong about it. He chose a side he only named halfway. It's not like it's some money from nowhere someone's gonna take. That's the money that divides the more vibrant part of the income from that side of the less income. That's just the way it is. It's built like this from start to finish. And this is where the ODS is going to be for five years, five hours in front of itself, sorry, the last five hours explain why she's doing this. So don't answer yourself here in front of you, because you really explain the unexplained. Let's vote, and you don't have to tell us the litany here again, where you actually deny yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u139	We have two factual points - Mr Skopeček and Mr Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u140	Mr. Colleague, even though it's 11:30, you're not gonna tell me what to say or not to say and how to be long or not. I think that if we were to count the speeches of colleagues from social democracy, it was not much shorter than the speeches of fellow civil democrats. So please calm down and let the legislator speak at your own discretion. You didn't understand anything. You don't understand the need to save money. You want people to have high taxes, so you want them to have them. We will always strive to lower their taxes. Of course, it will also help the low-income, it will just bring the employees a minus or plus 5 percent of the income. If you don't want to add it to them, don't add it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u141	Mr. Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u142	Thank you. I do not want to spoil it with Mr Dolínek, through Mr President, now the social democracy game on the responsible side in the area of public finances, because it is not that long ago, it is a few months ago when Minister Maláčová said that the debate is full that she is tired of dealing with where the money will be taken. Well, think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u143	This will be the last to be heard in the debate by Mr Vojtěch Munzar, the last to be applied for so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I volunteered electronically not to repeat my arguments about super gross wages here again. I think we've all heard it here. And I promise I won't talk about it anymore. I made a point of fact earlier. I don't want to start another circle of factual notes here. I volunteered to just ask you before the vote to really consider supporting my amendment to increase the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million. We all know that in 16 years since accession to the European Union, this limit has not changed, it is CZK 1 million. But over the 16 years of inflation, more and more small-scale businessmen are crossing that line. And crossing such a border means an increase in tax administration costs, financial costs, and time for a businessman to spend on the tax administration. I've argued this here several times. I won't argue anymore. I will only comment on the two reservations that the Ministry of Finance has on this. I'm glad the argument is no longer possible. But the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is that it is not practical and proper to deviate from the current amendment to the directive. And the Ministry of Finance wants to wait for the amendment of the directive in 2025. I do not, mad at me, Madam Secretary, see only the dislike of working with the Ministry for exemption negotiations, because we can really inspire ourselves from other states. In addition, the proposal is in two options - one from mid 2021, the other from 1 January 2022, just to allow sufficient time for discussion at European level. The second clause on which I would like to comment is the budgetary implications that the Ministry calculates a little over CZK 3 billion in the state budget. I personally believe that the impact will be far, far lower, because not all VAT payers will want to stop being VAT payers because they have some sort of set up business and so on. But raising the limit will help those who provide their services to final customers. And those are the ones that need help today. So once again before the vote, I ask you to consider supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. President Vojtěch Filip, then the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club is registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u146	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. So it's clear what happened here. Instead of addressing inflation rates by moving wages, employers or the state, if they employ their teachers, health professionals, firefighters and others, do so without increasing the wages at the expense of taxes and tax income. That is, of course, possible. [[23.30 hours]] None of the speakers mentioned one thing that reminds the bankers that this could, of course, have a huge impact on inflation. That's reality. Because it's the distribution of the income by how much someone gets from the reduced tax, when we finally cancel the super gross wage, the trap that Mirek Topolánek and Miroslav Kalousek set by the right-wing government for the next government, and then the government of Petr Nečas bathed in it after 2010, so, of course, this has to be dealt with. We'll see about that. It's the only thing for me. Because I don't think about it on the economic level, in the end, Jiří Dolejš told the economic parameters here, and I think about it politically. And I think my degree of patience and tolerance has come to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. [[There's an MP Michálek coming to the counter.]] Mr. President Jakub Michálek? You made a deal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u148	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will speak on this subject from a slightly different perspective. There were a lot of arguments here about the budget side, the financial side. And I think that we should also touch on how this matter was presented, in the way it was presented in the media that are in the trust fund of Andrej Babiš. Because today was a huge inch headline. Everyone's gonna do the same in the Young Front. Everyone's gonna do the same. In fact, for people who have a minimum wage, this proposal means CZK 700 a month, while for high-income groups, such as members of this honored chamber, that means CZK 7,000 a month. So this means "everyone's gonna do the same." 700 crowns and 7,000 crowns. What is absolutely shocking is that the whole conversation is basically conducted as a PR article in the most important newspaper in the Czech Republic in a trust fund that Andrej Babiš told us he would not interfere with. That's how it's described in this way. Basically, the questions are in style: Mr President, explain to us how you are so amazing and how President Hamáček is so unsuccessful. And the answer is: I'm so very successful, I've added 5,000 to seniors, and I'm going to lower my taxes to 15 percent. - So this is the way we could go over the article. There is absolutely no proper setting by the Young Front's editor today. While in the United States, when the Prime Minister, when the president lies there, turns it off, Twitter writes a follow-up commentary, then the reporters of the Young Front here today also compliment him. I have never read such a kind of interview in the most important newspaper of the Czech Republic owned by Andrej Babiš to be such a servile conversation with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. So, of course, there are all the positives listed there, as in Eva Pospíšilová's statement: the Committee recommended the proposal by Andrej Babiš, which will make everyone better anyway, because they all have the same tax reduction. - That's a great argument. Everyone's gonna get better, 'cause everyone's got the same tax cut. Of course, he forgot that one is 700 crowns and the other 7,000. And even the editor didn't notice it wasn't there by 6,300! Then she asked a lot of excellent follow-up questions, if they can make it, if they get it in time - and of course gets an answer: it will lead to a general increase in wages for all employees, a reduction in income from individuals will get approximately 4.35 million employees directly on the payroll. Well, there isn't a single reaction in the whole conversation where the editor would respond to Andrej Babiš's answer, so the question is whether the conversation has taken place at all, because the conversation is mostly about the dialogue being conducted in some way and responding to those answers, and the editor is trying to get the Prime Minister to answer those questions. So then, in case anyone doesn't understand, it's been repeated six more times that people will have more money on their payroll. - In which paycheck do people first feel like canceling a salary? - First of all, we're talking about a reduction in income tax for individuals, people get it in the January payout of 2021, so the first increase will come to their accounts in February next year. - That's how it goes on and on. Then, of course, there is a demonstration of great relations between coalition partners, where the Prime Minister states that he wants to believe that the ČSSD no longer treats businessmen as parasites, but concludes with such a statement that it is somewhat relativizing because it says: it is still visible that it does not love them, their proposal I consider to be antisocial in this situation. Mr. Hamáček, according to impartial journalists of the Young Front, failed today - and how do you explain that he failed? - That's a question for the Prime Minister, which I think is really a question for the body, what you explain is that your opponent has failed, Mr. Hamáček of the ČSSD. I think the Czech Republic really needs this investigative journalism. The interview has three big pages, so there's still quite a lot of material we can have fun with. Of course, there is a need to kick another party, in this case ODS, where the editor noticed of course, because mistakes only occur in parties other than YES, that for 15% of the gross wage income tax did not vote in the ODS Budget Committee. So the editor noticed that the ODS didn't support the budget committee. It should only be paid for two years, mainly because after two years, the economy should gradually recover, etc., according to current considerations. Of course, the editor forgot to ask why the two years weren't in the proposal. Is that how investigative journalism works? That's how the most prestigious medium is supposed to put on the best reporter in the country to have a conversation with the Prime Minister? And he's not able to ask a single question in such a crucial conversation that concerns the matter? I'm very surprised by that. Well, of course, then there was the normal part, as the Prime Minister managed to raise pensions - in 2013 he was an average pension, etc. As much as we've added to seniors, it's obviously in every conversation, but it's not labeled advertising. [[There's laughter in the room.]] And what is very interesting, then, is how the Prime Minister answers a rather radical question: what are you going to do with pension reform? The Prime Minister says: we also said that the problem is on the revenue side; the revenue side should be addressed by a combination of resources from employers, the state and employees. - Do you know what that means? That we have to spend more money on pensions from the state budget. And where are we going to get them now that what we're discussing here means we're going to take another CZK 90 billion out of the state budget? When the Prime Minister here tells us that his pension reform will consist in subsidizing the pension system from the state budget, now that we're here approving such a huge discharge from our budget? Unfortunately, the editor only responds to this by asking, "how are you going to face pensions?" to which, of course, the answer is: we have added 1,000 crowns a month to our oldest people over 85 years. - So that's the way the conversation goes. The government has a plan to compensate for this debt by increasing GDP and by increasing revenue from this in the budget and collecting from European funds. - So I think the Prime Minister is a master for European funds collection, but it's heading into the wrong pocket. [[There's laughter in the room.]] Then, of course, he fought for billions more. [[23.40 hours]] And now we're getting to the best part. For a long time, we have been discussing whether politicians should receive compensation. Don't you think about canceling them and saving them in this direction? The Prime Minister answers bravely: Good idea. I'll recommend it to Secretary Schillerová to suggest it, because for the replacements, maybe a former Prime Minister bought an apartment. I don't see why politicians should receive an office or housing allowance. - So I want to ask Secretary Schillerová, who lives in an apartment that pays the Treasury, if he takes seriously this Prime Minister's proposal that there shouldn't be housing contributions. [[Applause and laughter from the right.]] As well as if all the politicians are going to start paying for the offices in which they meet the voters, from their own. It's completely absurd! [[A note from the diaper.]] So, you don't need an office. Well, I don't know where it works. Excellent. So this feels to me like we've really gotten into a situation where the country's most clearly the biggest wannabe, serious diary works like an Andrej Babiš loudmouth. It is basically an uncovered advertisement and editors who have the Prime Minister to answer on such a crucial day when an extension of the emergency situation is being discussed, when the biggest tax change has been discussed recently, are unable to ask any relevant question and are unable to respond to what the Prime Minister will answer. So I would like to ask the Minister to answer my question as to how he will stand up to this proposal by Andrej Babiš, on the excellent idea, as the Prime Minister said, and I would ask you to really consider what we are going to do here today, because it will have consequences for many years to come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u149	Thank you. I have two factual points and two applications with priority rights. So the first point of fact is Mr. Roman Onderka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Minister a few hours ago the question about the agreement with Mr President on the two-year validity of this law that we are discussing. I have learned nothing, and since I can now stand here as a representative of the coalition partner of the ANO movement and perhaps I appreciate the words of the President from others, we will help our coalition partner and I am making a proposal to regulate the effectiveness of the law in the third reading according to the House's Rules of Procedure, I would like to point out, after consulting the legislation of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament. [[Contrary]] The following text is added to the provisions on the effectiveness of the Act: Sections 16 and 16a, as amended by Amendment M1, expires on 31. 12. 2022. Thank you for your attention. And, of course, I beg the support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u151	With a factual remark, Mr Juránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u152	When I heard my colleague Michálek here, I found that he lacked basic education from a long time ago, so I would like to address him through the President about his last speech. I mean, basic education in the past was political jokes. And I'm going to let you have one of them from a long time ago, a long time ago, I want to tell you. There was this military parade on Kremlin Square. It was always so beautiful and there were big maneuvers every time, always. And this parade was attended by such interesting people. It was Caesar, Alexandr the veliký and Napoleon. When Caesar saw them marching around with those machine guns, he said, "That would be, if I had this army, if I had these soldiers here, I would conquer the whole world." Alexandr the veliký makedonský, he was more of a great strategist and he was thrilled when they drove the rockets there. It was so beautiful when there was one rocket after another, and he said, "This is it. I wouldn't have to break that gordian knot. If I had this, I would definitely conquer the whole world. And Napoleon, they're looking at him, and he doesn't give a damn about the parade, and he's talking about how they were lying on the floor, the different newspapers, and he says, "Boys, it's nothing against the parade." If I had this paper and I had the Moscow truth in my hand, no one would know I lost at Waterloo. [[Fun and applause.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u153	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Folks, if we're gonna get some kind of successful ending, we should calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to read the legislative technical amendment to Amendment J2, House document 6121. One. In Amendment J2, the point is: X. Article 5 (1) (a) 26 second point (b) is replaced by CZK 40,000, the following point shall be added: 1 letter Collection is replaced by CZK 40,000. Two. In Amendment J2, point X V 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the sum of CZK 40 000 is replaced by CZK 80,000, i.e. CZK XV 26, par. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) CZK 40,000 is replaced by CZK 80,000. And three. The following point is added to Amendment J2: 1. In Part 6 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: X. the following point 7 is added: For assets registered with the taxpayer before the date of entry into force of this Act, depreciation shall be carried out in accordance with an adjustment effective before the date of entry into force of this Act. I shall pass it on to the rapporteur in writing. This is the removal of the legislative technical error in increasing depreciation from CZK 40 to CZK 80,000, which I have been alerted to by the Ministry of Finance legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u155	If the Minister wants to make a point of fact, he can, because I have someone else here with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u156	Please, colleagues, or ladies and gentlemen, I would like to very strongly warn Mr Onderka of this proposal. I was just with the legislation - just surprised that she recommended it. The doctor says she sees it as technically possible, but what happens after that date, I just asked. What happens after this date? Now my legislation is still analyzing it quickly, and after that date, it will be a point zero. Taxes will be zero, says the doctor. So what? And until then... And my colleagues say, until then, something will be approved. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] So that's great. So just so you know. So if you want taxes zero, I don't think we want that. So I'm warning you, it's really not that simple. It can't be loaded like this. We have just been bitten by the fact that the rates would have to be set, and we have to rely on something later - and we will end up, I think, Doctor, I am sorry, but that may not be the wisest advice, please don't be angry, which you gave to Mr Onderk. So I'm pointing that out. We, of course, in our consolidation strategy there was some, we just counted something there. We've calculated the status of the government's statement, but we're just not going to push anything into the next political representation. So I'm very strongly warning about the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u157	Thank you. Two factual points - Mr Roman Onderka and Mr Ferjenčík. Things are starting to get pretty crazy around here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the habit of having one crucial thing. I can say, "I'll try something." I can say, "I'll go to the club and consult with my colleagues." I can say "yes, I'll push it," and then I'll say "yes, I'll push it and I'll put my hand on it." That's a gentleman's agreement. And historically, this is used when the person knows what he's doing and stands up for his promise. [[23.50 hours]] If the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and the Minister of Finance have given the floor to the highest constitutional officials of the Czech Republic, Mr. Honourable President Miloš Zeman, and now one of these two government officials is speaking on a microphone and saying "I warn against this" to the Chamber of Deputies, then there is something wrong in this Chamber of Deputies at least with those people who promise something and then they are not willing and maybe sometimes able to keep their words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u159	Before I give another word to Mr Ferjenčík, I would like to set some points straight. There is such an objection that amendments should not be read in factual remarks, and it is true, so I will ask both Mr Onderka and Mr Ferjenčík if they want to make their proposals, so let them present them in the proper debate to which they can join me. But with a point of fact, I have Mr Marek the Výborný here. Mr. President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and President of the KDU-ČSL Jurečka Club with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u160	Thank you for the floor. I must say that my colleagues and colleagues from the left are really entertaining me all evening, you've been having a de facto dispute here all evening within the government coalition. So come to the table here and say, "We're done, we haven't agreed, the state budget or tax reform or tax changes are so crucial that it just can't go on." And all you do is walk around crying about how bad it is and everything. And you're crying halfway through the grave, the half of the grave belongs to the ODS, but the other half belongs to the YES movement, and there's nothing like that. So come on and say the end, and let's get out of this. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u161	With the priority right of the ODS President Stanjura, the chairman of the club will prepare himself - please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u162	Thank you for the floor. Before I speak of amendments R1, R2 and eurobonds, I apologise, but I also consider it important, so allow me to respond to several previous speeches. President Jakub Michálek was surprised by the shape, manner of the interview, interview of the Young Front TODAY by Andrej Babiš. I didn't. I'm sure I wasn't surprised. I think it was a standard interview between an independent journalist from the Young Front and a prime minister who had nothing to do with the Young Front. It's exactly worth it when government MPs interpel, and I'm not gonna say two minutes, five minutes, a minute, two minutes, I'm gonna cut it short. The Prime Minister will come and ask this question to the Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister, how do you make it so good? The Prime Minister comes in and says, "I'm doing the best I can, we're really good at it. On umpir, the Vice-President asks: "Do you have an additional question, Mr. Ambassador? And a member of the government's ANO movement will say yes. He comes here and says, " Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, but you're better than I expected. And the Prime Minister comes and says, "Yes, you're right. Eleven minutes of questioning has passed. And in this very spirit, there are interviews in the Mladá fronta today, or in the Lidové noviny, with the Prime Minister. So I'm not surprised. I was intrigued by the debate on pension reform because we, who were here in the last parliamentary term, had an obscure debate on pension reform right here in the hall, I think, in 2015. Andrej Babiš got excited, came up on the microphone and said, "I'm sick of it, all the traditional parties have been neurobiting nothing as far as pension reform is concerned, I'm going to put her in the House in three weeks, and that's gonna be awesome. On that occasion, former independent journalist Mladá fronta TODAY, then fellow Member Martin Komárek, really seriously, came here as I stand and says: I have not yet seen it, but I guarantee you that the best reform in at least Central Europe will come in those three weeks. - It's been five years. So don't be surprised, that's quite a significant shift in five years in this paper. So I wouldn't waste my time. That's no longer a respected newspaper. That's when a politician owns a newspaper, and it doesn't matter which side he's from. He just can't be respected. But R1, R2, amendments to the eurobonds. I have a feeling there's been a big misunderstanding on the side of the Treasury or Madam Secretary. Eurobonds are actually bonds issued by Czech companies abroad, they mainly do it by large companies, that is what needs to be said when they need to raise capital. All of a sudden, like a lightning bolt out of the blue, Madam Secretary and Government as a whole, including my dear colleagues from social democracy, I propose that we tax it, starting with 1. 1. 2021. I have tabled two amendments, the first which actually preserves the current situation, that is, so that our companies are not disadvantaged against other European companies using this instrument in order to maintain the current situation. And then the second, minimalist, which actually creates a minimum period of time for our companies to prepare for this, and shifts the effectiveness of this measure by one single calendar year. And if you don't want to maintain your current status, I beg you to give at least 12 months to the companies to prepare. It's the amendment, I feel, R2. And the debate on legislative technical or proposed change of effectiveness by colleagues, Mr Onderka and Mr Ferjenčík. They have used the Institute for factual observations, but Mr Onderka's proposal is voteable and we will decide whether to accept it or not. It is fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, therefore with the laws of the Czech Republic. We won't support this proposal, we didn't make that promise. And Mr Ferjenčík's proposal is a legislative technical regulation, and I think we should adopt all legislative technical comments before deciding whether to accept the amendment or not. I don't think it is necessary to reload them, I don't even want them to repeat it, I just wanted to warn the Vice-President that he should tell our colleagues that the institute of factual observations is not really about, for example, recording a change in effectiveness, or legislatively technical. But I don't require it to be reloaded, it would be a waste of time for everyone. It was more like next time. But both proposals are actually voteable, and there is no point in the Minister's commenting in any way on what will happen in 2002, or at the end of 2022, we are only in November 2020. Moreover, we will decide whether or not the House will accept the proposal that is voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u163	Thank you. Mr. KDU-ČSL Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-001-001.u164	Thank you. It's really late hours, but I'll take the margo of what my fellow Pirate President Jakub Michálek said. You do not have to go far, look at the situation from today's House meeting day, namely the issue of conflict of interest. And if you look at the headline in E15 for example, it says: The House has crossed out part of the law that recorded Babiš in a conflict of interest. And you look next to Lidovka, a description of the same situation, and the headline is: The House deleted part of the bill that could supposedly help Babiš because of a conflict of interest. So much to show how journalism is transformed. I will remind you, there was a time when journalists, members of the Young Front's editorial office were able to open up such a case that it meant the departure of Prime Minister Gross. This was the work of still good journalists who could do a good investigative job. But now there's one thing. I'm not going to evaluate the interview, I've already talked about it in my performance. I told you there were misleading things. But again, I'm asking the Secretary of Finance. Madam Secretary, take two or three model examples, take the family, two parents, two children, income up to average wage, and do a math with an average mortgage, and prove me wrong and wrong, and prove that these people will be better off. Argue it. You can show on the basis of the specific stories of these people, even by taking account of the life situation, the discounts on the taxpayer, the husband, the wife, the children and possibly the mortgage, project it, show that I'm wrong. You won't do it because you know it wouldn't work out. And yet what I said here four hours ago, the question that it's legally possible. All of a sudden, you see, here comes your coalition MP Onderka. In agreement with the legislation, he has clearly shown that this is possible. Then I guess I'm the jerk. Thank you.
