ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u1	259. Government bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws /house print 673/ - third reading Before I ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, I must ask the Chairman of the Economic Committee who will replace Mr. Martin Kolovratník. Oh, I see, I see, I see, I'm sorry. In that case, I'll ask him to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] [[9.10 hours]] Mr. Secretary, I'm not going to give you my word yet, because there's a lot of noise here, and I'll just wait until things calm down... In that case, as far as the apology presented at this meeting is concerned, Mr Martin Kolovratník is present. [[A request for silence almost without a response.]] I note that the motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 673/3, which was delivered on 3 June 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered to you as House Press 673/4. I ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind in the House! Prime Minister Karel Havlíček has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of transport and perhaps not just transport, this is undoubtedly a law of the year. First of all, I would like to thank all those who prepared it for each department, because it is a demanding law, which is from the workshop of the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as I appreciate the discussion -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u3	Once again, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! If you are discussing a subject other than press 673, it is crucially in the foyer! Well, if you want me to appoint an individual Member, I can do so. Thank you. Prime Minister, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u4	Thank you. I also appreciate the discussion that took place at first and second reading and within the Economic Committee. I am glad that this has managed to get to the material level, which has led us to this stage, and we are in a situation where, after a long time, we can actually significantly accelerate the preparation of all buildings not only of transport infrastructure, but of energy and infrastructure infrastructure in the field of electronic communications. We can discuss whether it will accelerate by a third or up to half, and in those positive scenarios it can actually happen that we can do it by a few years, even by up to six or seven years. It is a matter for which municipalities are waiting for, for which the regions are waiting for, for which investors are waiting, and, of course, it is also a great priority in the area of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Regional Development. We are in a situation where we want to invest, but only resources are not enough to invest, we must also have approved projects to invest, and the situation where we have waited many and many years for concrete approval and the possibility of starting the construction was unbearable. So what are we presenting? Since this has been done several times, I will take it very briefly, but in principle we combine the location and permit of the building, eliminating a whole number of different binding opinions, various permits, consents, shortening the time limits up to 30 days for the issue of these binding opinions or 60 days if these are particularly complex cases. In the expropriation law, we propose speeding up expropriation proceedings, once again setting clear deadlines for certain procedural procedures. There will certainly be one expert opinion for the benefit of everything, which will explicitly enable us to merge more land and buildings just needed for the construction of transport infrastructure. At the same time cancel virtually. We provide a mode for how to cancel some crossings in the area of railway construction. Let us not forget the water and energy infrastructure when we propose to extend the possibility of using the so-called intermediate decision institute. For electronic communications, a wide range of simpler procedures generally occur. I happened to have had a discussion this morning and signed an important document with the Union of Towns and Municipalities on the introduction of high-speed Internet into every white place. We've allocated 14 people from the resort, and I think there's work to be done. This will also serve, and municipalities, for example, will be able to solve the attributes and everything associated with it more quickly. It must be said that a number of amendments have been applied to the bill. There's dozens of them. Some of them can be easily identified, some of them have been very much discussed. I dare say that it ended up with compromise agreements. I appreciate the debate on the Economic Committee, and I would like to say only one out of all the amendments, and I would therefore end my opening statement, and that is so much discussed, mentioned and sometimes adored, sometimes criticized Polish model. First of all, I want to say that this is not just a Polish model. It is a model that is applied similarly, for example, in Germany, but the essence is that at the moment of the territorial decision, which may be linked to the building permit, it is possible to start the construction, to start a discussion of possible purchase or expropriation in parallel. It is a very fundamental thing, which is relatively courageous, but it will not deprive anyone of the crown, but it will eliminate possible blackmail, eliminating possible extension of the debate and shortening it by many and many years. I could talk here - and many of you know this too - about dozens and hundreds of cases where this period was completely critical. I have to apologize a little bit for not being part of the draft of the novel. It was only possible in the context of Mr Kolovratník's amendment. This was largely due to the fact that when I joined the Ministry of Transport, I did not want to lose the chance of discussion and inclusion in this amendment. In principle, everyone agreed on this, the vote on the Economic Committee was 20: 15, which gave us the hope that this path was possible, is correct. I think everyone in the county is aware of that. I wanted to thank Mr Birke or Mr Adamc for a really rational discussion, because they gave us a wide range of stimulating opinions on how the regions cope with this. I politely ask for the support of this key law and look forward to a possible discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u5	I thank Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. I'm opening the debate. Mr Polanský is the first to sign up. Mr. Ivan Adamec will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I've already said it all here at first reading. I don't want to repeat myself, so just briefly. We may all wish to speed up the construction of the transport infrastructure in particular, but we also agree that if I want to speed things up, I must first understand why the construction process is scrubbing so much today. Unfortunately, this is what the petitioners resigned from. We're building a house without solid foundations today. The petitioners seemed to be confident of approval, so they did not bother to justify the rather substantial proposed changes in any way, to state arguments, statistics or any figures. Instead, they only went on the surface of the problems, so the result is an intuitive measure consisting, I would say, in the method of carpet raid, that means instead of intelligent change. A typical example is the so-called fiction of the consent position. It's actually about treating the symptoms without wanting to understand what's behind it. A fine example is - imagine if we were trying to treat the fever with a cold shower. Yes, the temperature will drop, but you're totally resigning to understanding why you got it first. In addition, it is a dangerous instrument, because it will allow for the avoidance of responsibility for politically undesirable opinions, because an official would rather allow a deadline than a decision to be made. [[9.20 hours]] Another aspect. We're amending Act 416 a year and a half after the last amendment. In this amendment we added several and relatively revolutionary mechanisms that did not have a chance to manifest themselves in practice. In such a situation, the law does not change logic so soon without proper evaluation of the original amendment. I'm not the only one who says so. In his opinion, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court literally called this procedure chaotic. Moreover, even today there is no systematic collection of information about building processes, their evaluation, which is exactly the basis for some analysis that we need to be able to make good decisions here. Because what I can't measure, I can't even drive. I'm going to leave the annex to the law, into which the constructions are coming to us according to a completely unclear key. However, this was true of the first amendment in 2018, for the MP, but it is even worse today when it is a government amendment and it has been worked by professionals from three ministries for more than a year. Next thing. Totally essential mechanisms, e.g. the possibility to merge the more aggressive expropriation method, the so-called the preliminary holding, directly with the territorial decision, is a matter which has entered into the law by means of an amendment, has therefore not undergone any internal or inter-ministerial review procedure, has not been analysed by the RIA or by the Government Legislative Council. Speaking of the Government Legislative Council, I would just like to point out that her position on this amendment is one word overwhelming. Based on it, it would be nice to download and rework the press. Unfortunately, the reflection of those comments from the Government Legislative Council was quite minimal, rather zero. We will also find flaws in beauty in the process of adopting this law. It's startling, for example. The opinions of the petitioners, i.e. ministries for local development, transport and industry. She just couldn't find a match in the absolutely critical parts of this law. She has argued very often against herself, and I say this, with absolutely fundamental arguments. It was so obvious that a few days later, a new settlement came to our mailboxes, in which the ministry was forced to change its mind and adapt the argument to get it to a single phase. Perhaps this is why the settlement of amendments after the Ministry's second reading was sent to the House at some time at midnight from June 9th to June 10th, with the 10th of June - in our mailboxes at 8 a.m. on the 10th and at 9 a.m. the committee on which the press was voted began at 9 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, such an act in the case of a serious law in which property is involved, expropriation is really unacceptable. It is still appropriate to admit that the proposed changes will undoubtedly bring speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure, which I do not deny. But the price we pay for it is too high, and we pirát are not willing to pay for it. In fact, the whole discussion is only about whether the purpose justifies the means. For these reasons, the pirát will not support the proposal - for which, by the way, the nickname lex laxativ has been used in our resort team. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u7	Thank you, Mr Polanský. Mr Ivan Adamec will now appear, and Helena Langšádlová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u8	Yes, thank you. Mr President, Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, well, I will not be so, I would say, perhaps critical of this bill 416. I have spoken to him several times, and I must say that, of course, some things bother me, too, I regret the way this most important law is being prepared for our economy. Today, when I opened my TV, I feel like everyone's watching caged chickens, and the highways didn't turn up on TV at all. Well, I have to say, unfortunately, it is - and I've already said it here... [[Response to a note from the O.R.]] Chickens on the freeway, yes, Mr. Chairman, chickens on the freeway, I understand. I have to say, I've said this before, that for how important the law is, the preparation should look a little different. And it is also true what Mr Polanský said, that actually put in this bill an amendment to Mr Kolovratník, who is, of course, consulted with the Ministry, let us not make an illusion that fundamentally changes the preparation, so it is at least strange, this way. And I will also go back to the past, because we were putting together a list here at the time, and then it was actually a parliamentary proposal, where we consulted directly with the Minister of Transport Ťok, where some agreements took place, and it was not easy at all, and at that time we were putting together a list of buildings that were supposed to be essential for the development of the Czech Republic, and it was already a big problem. Even then, we just didn't agree on some things. In the end, to get through it, we raised the hands and got some constructions that I don't think were supposed to be there, according to other colleagues, yes, but I was living in the idea that this list should be a strategic list for when the real constructions are built. That means not putting everything we can think of, everything that's bothering us, but a real list of investments that need to be made in the near future. Unfortunately, it didn't. Here we lead to perfection, here we give other things, like nuclear power plants, water tanks, and I think it's a dangerous step, a very dangerous step. Of course, no one can blame me for not wanting to build water tanks, not building nuclear power plants. That's not true, but I don't like the system. It must be said that this is not how it should be done. There has also been an opinion that, in a number of cases of amendments, there is a discrepancy between ministries. Well, that's true, but on the other hand, it's always been. We wouldn't have moved on. It's just that every ministry defends a little different interests, and if it's not united in this area, we'll never move on. That's what needs to be said. So I don't see the problem. I see the problem with the fact that we now have 40 amendments, one of which may be worth mentioning, that is the so-called. Polish or German model. I'd go even further, but that would need to be prepared to make it easier. And I think that many of these amendments, in my opinion, make the law obscure, it does not make the legal system of the Czech Republic clear, and that if we approve it the way all the amendments have passed, or all the amendments that are here, it simply will not be a good law, it will not be a step in the right direction, and then, if some amendments to the law pass, I will suggest to our club that we do not support the outcome so that we abstain. But I have to say, we want to do this, we want to speed up construction. And let me just say one more thing. We can try as legislatively as we can here, but if no one thinks about the system of actual implementation of both the preparation and the constructions, we will simply move forward only very small steps. I'm talking about the preparation, the real preparation of the buildings in ŘSD. Please, look at this, I've talked about this here before, it's really tragic! We've made a territorial decision after 504 days, I've already said that here, we've made it on the first try, even the Children of Earth, Mr. Patrik complimented us on how good we are, how open we are, published. I don't know if they missed us building the highway from the other end, but I don't know how to tell you this. Now, take the zoning decision. And you know who was most surprised? Oh, no, no, no, no, We're gonna have to do something! And if you think that they immediately started processing expert reports on land and buildings they've known for years that they're just gonna start preparing it, well, you're wrong. It only starts now. What month do we have? Well, June, that's practically six months. So I'm saying we can do whatever we want here, if the system of preparation and construction doesn't change, it just won't work. [[9.30 hours]] That's why I say we should have gone further in the Polish model, made a valid territorial procedure and then competed with the company that built it and arranged all the documents needed to implement the construction. I'm sorry it didn't happen. It is revolutionary, of course, here again those who think that the law of all those green institutions, organizations are above the law of the Czech Republic, citizens of the Czech Republic, the others that are clear, overwhelming majority. But unfortunately, it just didn't work out. So I have to say, I have a big problem with this meeting today, because when I look at the amendments, there are about 40 of them, just like if this goes through, the law is useless in my judgment. I think that when we vote at the third reading now, I would ask the rapporteur to explain every number of the amendment, even if it takes longer than that. 'Cause really, don't be mad at me, I don't want a list of nuclear power plants, water tanks and all that stuff that came from an ad hoc diaper. I think that some of the ideas that are there, which return the law to the previous form, that everyone could say that again, which, of course, is not fundamentally wrong, but it has to be in some system, it has to be once and not to repeat the same, so if we can do this today, then we are willing to support this bill. [[Nesroz.]] Again, I don't like the Minister's statement, and it's nothing against him, he's a little innocent about it, because he joined the Ministry when this bill was already underway. Let's face it. That start wasn't happy at all, because it was supposed to be discussed a little bit on a different level. It was supposed to go through the interdepartments, because I think it's a really important bill, it didn't pass, we're dealing with it maybe fast, and I'm opposed to a quick solution to the bills, because good intentions, and we've been here wondering how many times it's not enough. We all have good intentions, each a little different, and the result can be scary. A scary cocktail that just ends in disaster. So I'd like my honored colleagues here at the House plenary to consider what they're going to support today, how they're going to behave. And maybe let's ask ourselves the fundamental question: do we want to build line constructions, not just motorways, just to be clear here? Do we want it to work? Then we are able to somehow stand up to it, some suggestions may be accepted, but let us take this as a warning that this way of travel is not good. It's wrong. It's wrong, because if we really want to do something right, and it's not for a short time, because the process of completion of line construction is waiting for us, it's gonna be complicated, complicated and it's gonna be long, it's gonna be decades, when I take, like, drills, high-speed railroads, so I'm gonna ask that next time we prepare such bills in a different form, so that we're clear that everyone here doesn't raise the doubts, like I got the amendment at midnight, and I'm supposed to vote on it in the morning, etc. I think it needs to be prepared better. And if someone here says that the time has actually passed, that we could have done something about it in 30 years, then I always tell those who are smart and say, "why didn't you do it in 90. years?"So I'd like to remind you that in the '90s, when you said something to someone that you'd become, you'd take, you'd own, it was worse than murder. That's what needs to be said. The time is over, the process is standard in all democratic countries, but the parameters must be quite clear, clear, familiar, and then we can succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all I wanted to tell you at the moment. We will see what else is going to be the next debate, in which case I will come forward. Let's vote with reason, let's make the result worth it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u9	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Colleague Langšádlová will wait a little longer because he will perform with priority rights the chairman of Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u10	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps the rapporteur will confirm my feeling that we have returned in time by two years. It was about two years ago when we approved the last major amendment to this bill, and they were the same headlines in the media as I see in these days: MEPs approved the bill, which will significantly accelerate infrastructure construction. Not just traffic, like Ivan Adamec said. And I'll tell you what I miss most about the bill. Ivan Adamec described a complex compromise with the annex in which the buildings listed were to be applied to the last amendment. The law is valid, or the amendment was valid, unless I'm wrong, if it was 18, but definitely in August 2018. We have two years, which means, that's the period for which we can evaluate whether the novel helped or didn't help. We don't know. We don't know it, and blind again, and I'm not saying it's wrong, but we promise the public blind again that this time it'll work out, and this time we'll speed it up. I expected significant state investors to present written material not only to members of the Economic Committee but to all members of the Chamber of Deputies, in which they would evaluate at least four things from the last amendment, where I was co-author, co-president and for which we voted almost all in the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe somebody got held up, but the support was really wide. And we've introduced quite new things. Not quite, quite new things. First, there was a preliminary holding, which was made an interim decision. How many times has it been applied in those two years? With what result? Has it accelerated or hasn't it accelerated? It's not a criticism of the institute, but we don't know if he helped. Then we were very happy when the House accepted our proposal, which was a breakthrough in the construction process. That means the fiction of consent that we've had for two years. We don't know how many times it's been used. I don't have any material to say to me - yes, that's a good institute, he's proven himself, so maybe we can discuss expanding to other areas. We don't have statistics here. That's why I'm saying we're gonna make a blind decision. Or it could have been an assessment that it didn't help, but it didn't hurt, or that it did, or that it wasn't used at all. I just don't know. And I thought after a year we'd evaluate it, today it's been almost two years, and we don't know anything. The third thing I would have expected to get to this bill, and I think it would have been appreciated by the chairmen of the Economic Committee, we approved the annex in 2018, since August, the law is valid. So there's nothing easier to write than how we've moved on over the past two years in those actions that are in the annex, and how many times the new institutes that we've introduced into that law may have been positive. That means, in between, there is a decision and, above all, a diction of consent. Or whether the preparations have moved at all. But we're already expanding the list, and we're having a huge fight, whether we throw this in or this. And who happens to be opposed to using these extraordinary means - because when we remember the debate two years ago, we agreed quite well, I am not saying that everyone, especially colleagues from the left, had a more benevolent approach to this instrument, and we said that it should be exceptional and really important constructions, where the fact that it is in the interest of the state is actually without discussion. Yes, the attachment is much wider than we thought at the time, because if, for example, we put 30 priority actions in transport or road infrastructure, or 40 or 50, we don't have a priority, let's say it openly. If you have 50 priorities or 30 priorities, what's the priority anyway? Everything and nothing. We haven't been evaluated, and today again, we promise to speed things up considerably. Maybe so, I don't want to question it, and I don't want to challenge the individual parts and comment on the various amendments. And that's the third thing we were supposed to have on our desk when we got the proposal out of the government. [[9.40 hours]] And the fourth thing we could evaluate, we actually narrowed down the number of construction offices to assess and decide on these buildings. Again, I have no information as to, for example, the quality of those decisions on the number of successful appeals; failed - that's another thing. Whether it was a step in the right direction or not and whether we should concentrate it even more. But then we can't have 50 priorities. If those priorities were up to five, six, I think it's supposed to be one organ in the whole state, one, and not over those regions. But even that was a move in the right direction, and we don't know again. So, of the four basic things that I think were supposed to be a sidekick or a sidekick in the new bill, we didn't learn anything. Madam Secretary Benešová, if I am not mistaken, is chaired by the Legislative Council of the Government. When you read the statement, we're really extremely worthy of the opposition. Such ragged material, which is the official government's position as to what the government's apparatus means. No opposition politician was involved. The government has solved it politically, I understand it, it happens sometimes, I don't object to it, I take note. But what does it say about the quality of the proposal when government officials themselves and the people who work for the government really ruthlessly tear it down from start to finish? And if you don't like it, I'll print it out and quote it from the Government Legislative Council's opinion. And believe me, none of the Members will use today, at least I suppose, such sharp words on the quality of this proposal. Why am I saying this? We'll probably support the bill. It depends on which amendments receive support and which do not. So let's make a last-minute decision. But if I'm guessing how this vote might turn out, I think we're gonna support it, that those things that we see as extremely problematic aren't going to pass. Because if they had passed, they would have made it impossible for us to support the law. And I would very much like it not to happen again, Minister, the situation. So we can get an evaluation within 12 months. Or even now back to getting an evaluation for the first two years. There was another minister and so on. I understand all that, don't think of it as a personal criticism or a personal attack. But we cannot change such fundamentals blindly in good faith. Which one of you is going to put your head on the political block today to speed up building preparation by a third? We're not, I'm just saying that. It would be great if it were, I don't doubt it. But I don't know where the political declaration comes from that it will speed up the preparation and construction by a third. I don't think so at all. And I'm sure we'll talk about infrastructure on Tuesday, if we're discussing a state budget amendment, where we'll talk in more detail. Because today we're talking about rules, we're not talking about individual constructions and individual investments. So the lack of evaluation of the effects of the last amendment is the greatest lack of this bill, which could confirm us that we are going in the right direction and we can make the instruments more effective and possibly complement them so that we can achieve the desired goal. This is not a typical political document about which we are really fighting a political battle. Of course, some of the previous speakers were talking about three resorts competing here and having different opinions. So we only have two ministers on those three resorts. So I suppose at least Minister Havlíček coordinated it, and the MIT and transport had the same positions. I don't know. I'm not a member of the Economic Committee. Then, of course, there is a problem when it is said openly, a criticism towards Minister Dostálová. Even the last amendment and this amendment are basically subservient to the work of the Ministry of Regional Development. We're dealing with a special law, we haven't solved the general law. I know it's not easy, but - we're forgetting - seven years you've had that resort, you didn't come yesterday, you're not a year after the election, seven years has the YES movement of the Ministry of Regional Development. The ANO Resort of the Ministry of Transport has seven years and the ANO Resort of the Ministry of Finance has seven years. I understand that sometimes there's a problem when he's a coalition minister, that he may have a different political opinion, and it's not aligned. We were part of the coalition governments. But in this case, it doesn't apply. For seven years, one political movement has all the key ministries needed to change the rules that would help speed up transport infrastructure. Then sometimes it's like it's forgotten, there's a new guy coming in and he's saying - now it's gonna be, now we've written it, and now he's gonna sprinkle it. And then every time one of the government officials comes to the resort or the county, he says -- hm, it won't be 2023, but I promise, it'll be 2025. Then the minister changes, the new minister comes back and says, uh, we're doing our best, we're working. It won't be 2025, it'll be 2027. Like the fact that we don't have D35 until today after seven years is really a traffic problem for the whole Czech Republic, because we could ease the D1. So I started the first section of the D1 deep down many years ago. If what I was told by the representatives of the ŘSD was true then, Minister, it wasn't the only deadline this year, it wouldn't be this year and it would all be done. And count me in - 2013, 14, 15, 16, 17 - that's five - 18, 19, 20. Eight construction seasons are primarily repaired 160 kilometers D1. And it's not gonna end this year. There'll be nine or ten of them. What a pace, huh? And the land is state. There's no problem that we're buying out, preparing something, we're just expanding it a little bit. Nine or ten years, 160 kilometers. However, marketing wins if the eight kilometers can be repaired, then the government reports it as a new highway. And when the NKÚ writes that Minister Took four kilometers, that's not true. I've repaired three kilometers of D1, or four. And that's 100 percent more than the NKÚ says, and that's a big 100 percent mistake to be next door. But to bring it back to a serious debate. I would like the rapporteur, who was the leader of the last change, to comment on this. We were then making sure, Mr rapporteur through Mr President, that we would require those state investors to be evaluated on an ongoing basis. I don't have a documentary. Better late than late. So I would ask the Minister to assign the largest investor organisations to evaluate the two years that they have made use of the interim decision, how they have taken advantage of the fiction of consent, what experience they have with those construction agencies that have been in charge of those infrastructure structures that are in annex number one. Mr rapporteur, is this annex number one? To make me look like I'm reading it in detail. So in annex number one for those who haven't read it, there's a list of the buildings. And that should be a debate. And it might be good if colleagues in the Senate got it. Because the Senate will certainly judge it, and I think even a smooth discussion in the upper chamber would help if that list, at least in the basic structure - how many times, on which constructions, whether it is advantageous or disadvantageous or neutral. Polish road, revolutionary, unrevolutionary. Well, the most revolutionary thing we've proposed, the fiction of consent as a general rule. When I read the ministry's statements, we really scared the clerks, but everybody. And when we translate it into ordinary Czech for citizens and taxpayers, our officials - and I say ours, now I don't mean the government - our officials say, "You don't mean that, we're supposed to follow legal deadlines? You're out of your mind. It can't be. It's gonna collapse. But the same officials say. Late day, one day, you sent a late check report, a tax return, you pay. That's obvious, taxpayers, dear citizen. The deadline's in the law. There's no train over it. And when we say the same simple rule - the fact that we have to propose it to the law, that's absurd. And read the opinions of all ministries on the proposal that the fiction of consent would apply. We didn't suggest if it was 30 days, 60, 90 or 120. And we're ready to debate that length. But if someone does not have to comply with legal terms in the Czech Republic, it is unfortunately a state. No sanctions, no problems. And if you want to change that, the officials write it - disaster, the end of the Czech Republic. So let's imagine if that's how our citizens and our taxpayers react. That would be the end of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u11	That was Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, Martin Kupka will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I too am one of the Members who participated two years ago in the preparation of the amendment. I have attended many months of negotiations in the presence of the Minister of Transport, your predecessor, Minister, with assurance that if we adopt this standard, the previous amendment, where the instruments mentioned by my previous speaker, that is to say, the interim decision, the fiction of consent and other instruments, will be significantly accelerated by the implementation of the transport infrastructure. That's how it went down. That's what happened. We were assured that by adopting this amendment, which was very sensitive to us at the time, because we have to very much balance between the public interest, which is precisely the construction of a key infrastructure, and a private interest, and that is the protection of private ownership, because these changes simply lead to some violation of private ownership - land inputs, purchases, land provision - and we were really assured a year and a half, two years ago that if we adopt the amendment, we would quickly build the key infrastructure. That's what happened. And we're here after a year and a half since the adoption, we don't have an analysis of how the new tools were used. That's what my previous speaker was talking about. We have an amendment here, which is written with many reservations, including the Legislative Council of the Government and other experts, and it really seems that, in this case, the public interest has very much gotten into the balance between the interest in protecting private property, and that in a legislative form that is not right. Yes, there are some good things in this proposal that we, as a TOP 09, will support. It is, for example, an increase in compensation in the case of purchases, especially houses, these are issues of accelerating the construction of infrastructure that will promote electromobility, and other things, but I am very sorry, both in terms of the lack of analysis of how the previous instruments were used, and in terms of content, we cannot support the law as a whole. And I also appeal, Minister, to give us an analysis of how the instruments that were put into the law a year and a half ago have been used. I, too, feel that the discussions that were on the Economic Committee have not been used enough, but mainly because very often these purchases are really mainly those, that communication with the owners is not quite the most appropriate form, and if the state, or the institutions that do so for the state, were better communicating with the owners, so very often we will reach an agreement faster and there will be no delay in building the transport infrastructure in particular. So once again, I beg you very much to get back an analysis of how the instruments that were adopted a year and a half ago were used. And I really ask that these investor organisations communicate better with the owners, who often just by the form behind them, with the fact that they will be restricted to property rights, are basically humanly stuck, and that is often why we are holding back the construction of transport infrastructure in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u13	Thank you, Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Before I give the floor to Mr Kupek, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. He apologizes because of the illness of Mrs Lenka Kozlová, for reasons of work Ivan Jáč apologizes for the whole day, Mr Lukáš Kolářík for health reasons also for the whole day and also for Mrs Marcela Melková's apology from 9.00 to 11.00 for work reasons. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, the rapporteur Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u14	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with this bill proposal so that we can at least simplify the various procedures necessary for key constructions. For the key way that they bind the development and further development of the Czech economy, no doubt at a time when we are all thinking about it and trying to help the Czech economy develop faster. That's all the more important. It is all the more important that we take advantage of the opportunity to mitigate the long-term burden of Czech administrative proceedings. I would like to introduce a few concrete changes that promise significant simplification of construction procedures, in some cases also in general form, not only for line constructions, but also where necessary and where this applies not only to key investors of line constructions, but also where small builders are involved, because there is really a shoe pressure everywhere in the Czech Republic. One of my amendments removes Section 96b. It removes it without compensation, because if there has been a significant burden on the entire construction process in recent years, it is precisely this new provision that has imposed on all construction workers to ensure a binding position of the zoning authorities. In many cases, it seems that the competent department of the municipality will write that if it does not rain, we will not get wet. Or it says that because it's allowed to build there, it can be built there. But the problem is, this whole procedure takes five months in some cases. Five months represent 150 days of delay in the whole construction process. This is the reason that has contributed in recent years to the fact that we have failed in recent years, in the years when the MMR is under the leadership of the ANO movement, when we have actually fallen a few rungs in the speed and intensity of the construction process. The proposal does not mean that the jungle should suddenly expand in the Czech Republic in what is allowed or not to be built. All he's saying is that what worked, what worked better, is that compliance with the zoning plans was judged by the general construction authorities, those construction authorities that know the situation in the place well, are watching it continuously, because the officials are also right around the individual zones, they just walk around the individual future buildings and they also know that when they go around for example next time, so that they could be ashamed if they allowed something that just doesn't have to be there - this direct link is very important, and local knowledge. The proposal I'm coming up with cancels the completely unnecessary procedure and says that we're going back to where we were and where it worked, that the assessment with the applicable zoning plan will simply be carried out by the general construction office. With the fact that, at the same time, when we look at the creation of a digital technical map, which, of course, will also carry the zoning plan as one layer, the control, and the follow-up, will be very simple in all other related procedures. I also consider this proposal important so that we can remove one huge handicap that we have named in the Czech Republic, i.e., the quality of spatial planning. It is the municipalities with extended scope, or regional development authorities with extended scope, that have the greatest influence on the quality of spatial planning, because they are most often the owners of territorial plans. And if you go there today to ask if the most important thing they should do, where they can evaluate their qualifications, what they can really do, that is, if they're preparing zoning plans for municipalities and cities, they'll shrug their shoulders and say, well, where would we take the time? We're here to stamp our positions in line with the zoning plan. We're saying these words here, "if it doesn't rain, we won't get wet," and it takes so much time for us to really work with the added value we need from them, i.e. to create territorial plans, they just don't have time. [[10.00 hours]] That's reality. This caused the addition of a completely unnecessary stamp. And the proposal, which is on the table at the moment and for which we can raise our hand, says that this unnecessary delay, which not only prolongs the time for the building workers to take up the territorial decision of whose building permit, but also makes life much easier for them, because they will not have to run around offices that really will not bring them anything real, practical, positive, and we will also give room for those who know how to do it in the regional development unions to devote themselves to the most important, quality preparation of territorial plans for not only building faster in the Czech Republic, but to build wisely to implement good intentions where the territory allows and where the territory can bear it. I therefore consider the abolition of § 96b as an important thing, as a way to really simplify people's lives, to shorten the construction process. When we are trying to achieve change here, this particular change to a quick construction process or at least to a significant acceleration of the construction process is offered here. And not in two or three years, but from the moment this law takes effect, which could be January 1st next year. The question will be: Now that we have equipped some of the authorities with the people needed, what will they do? Isn't the horror vacui going to happen to the regional development unions? Do not doubt that there will not be, only the real meaning and meaning of the union's existence would be fulfilled and would become more dedicated to the preparation of territorial plans and would improve territorial planning in the Czech Republic. This is much more important and we can contribute to this. So important a comment on one of those K7 amendments. I would also like to comment on two other proposals aimed at faster and easier construction of new generation networks, or fibre optic networks, electronic communications networks, which we need to simplify the number of different processes in the Czech Republic, so that people, for example, in a situation that is exceptional, which is like the recent Coronavirus, can achieve more things from home and work from home and can handle official matters more easily from home. In the Czech Republic we have high-quality backbone communication, the backbone networks of the modern generation. What we lack, however, is that fast data can also travel to more remote areas and remote locations. The solution is not quite simple, but at a time when optical fiber could easily be placed, for example, in auxiliary road land, or next to the side of the road, as they do in many countries of the world, it would mean a significant acceleration of network development and a significantly faster connection to remote areas to the fast Internet. We attended several meetings this week with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport, because this is an important matter, this is an important priority, after all, the government is also putting it on one of the first places, and we were looking for a way to deal with it. At this point, I understand that these two proposals will not have the support of the Ministry of Transport in particular. The Ministry of Industry and Trade participated in their preparation from the beginning and was in favour of them. The problem arises in the defence of road land. But here yesterday we found at least a shift in the public promise that in the course of one month all those actors, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport will find a solution to how to deal with this in some of the future legal changes so that they could really build electronic communications networks faster in the Czech Republic and we didn't throw unnecessary sticks at each other. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] So important a comment on those steps that concern accelerating the development and development of new generation networks. And my last point concerns the presumption of consent, or the fiction of consent. It was said here that the legalization of the fiction of a binding consent opinion could create problems. The reality is that the absence of a whip beyond the time limits of the authorities creates the most serious problems. We are talking about the fiction of a binding consent position, not the fiction of the final decision, the territorial consent, whether it is possible to build or not. We are talking about an important basis for decision-making. And the problem that happens in the Czech Republic is that even the documents for individual proceedings are delayed, and they are often delayed not by a month, but also by a few months. And the fiction of a binding consent opinion is not introduced into the law to be fulfilled, it is inserted into the law to have a stronger tool to learn the state to look at its obligations and to look at the deadlines which, on the one hand, are binding on the citizen, and it takes one day of delay for the citizen to be out, either to have to pay a fine, or to get into a situation where it simply doesn't receive any permission from the state anymore, and everyone who went through some complex processes in that hall can simply prove this, they have to face such situations. We say that we also need to arm the state with stronger pressure for the authorities to meet their deadlines. And the fiction of a binding consent position, the presumption of consent, as proposed by us, in a form which, in my view, is more legislatively feasible, is important in this regard to helping to build and obtain the necessary permits more quickly earlier. And it doesn't say anything about how the authorities will deal with the final meritorial decision, how they'll evaluate all the pros and all against the relevant constructions. Thank you very much for your attention. I wish that we could overcome traditional, at least in some important cases, divisions: we will not agree to this because it did not pass by the government, because the government here has only one puvoir to propose good measures. Here we offer several substantive and important steps to speed up the construction process, to speed up the steps that we urgently need in order for the Czech economy to develop, and that is what infrastructure is necessary for. I would like to address you in this respect for a moment to throw away the flaps of close coalition and opposition perception and follow the interest that lies in the specific proposals. Interest to build faster, build easier and open the economy even by simply being better equipped with infrastructure, we will have the necessary line constructions that we have been waiting for for for a long time, and that even for builders in the Czech Republic, whether small or large, there will simply be more suitable conditions. Now is the opportunity, now we can do it, so please don't waste the opportunity to simplify people's lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u15	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník is also enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I will now speak first in the debate as the rapporteur of the law, then I will try to respond as an MEP and author of a number of amendments to some of my previous speakers. Let me lighten this up a little bit. Given the occupancy of the hall, I see that everyone already knows everything about this law and has been discussed on the Economic Committee, so I can certainly make my performance very brief. But first, the formal part as the rapporteur. I would like to introduce you to the application of the legislative technical amendment that I have already passed on and applied to the House of Legislation. It's really about one renumber that my colleagues from the Ministry of Industry and Trade have asked me to do. The proposed legislative technical regulation is related to the amendment to the Energy Management Act, it is Act No. 406/2000 Coll., which was modified during the preparation of our amendment, and there were some renumbering points. So the legislative technical regulation is, for the tapestry, in Section 12 of Article XV. the text "letter (k)' is replaced by the text "letter (j) '. It is therefore merely a rebranding of one reference, there is no actual change of content. So much legislative engineering. And now for the debate. Firstly, I would like to thank my colleagues here who have spoken and are critical of the form of preparation or the content of some proposals, previous speakers Polanský, Adamec, Stanjura. I understand these comments in many moments and I understand them and repeat what I said on the Economic Committee. [[10.10 hours]] The last time we amended this law by an amendment by a Member two years ago, we met almost every week on a working group outside the standard terms of the Chamber of Deputies and the Economic Committee. Unfortunately, this spring Coronavirus crisis affected things, as it happened, and we had a lot less time for those meetings together, some things could just happen electronically. Still, the debate was. It was time for her. There was space. And I must certainly defend both the petitioners here, the various ministries, the three ministries presented by the Ministry of Transport, as well as us government MPs on the Economic Committee, that we certainly did not want to smuggle in any of the amendments there in any way in a subtle way or not to let him know, not to listen to the opposition's opinion. Once again, I would like to remind Ondr Polanský that the proposals that are woven into both the body of the government's amendment and the amendments really were based on practice. I myself met with the director of ŘSD, the director of the Railway Administration. We asked colleagues what works in practice or what doesn't work, and on the basis of these suggestions, we were just preparing individual amendments. So it certainly wasn't done that we were thinking or suspecting something, and then we're gonna make an adjustment to the law. I've announced the statement that the pirát are probably not gonna go along with the law today, that they're not gonna back him up. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And, of course, with all due respect, it is the right to their political opinion. But it's a shame. I'll answer Ivan Adamec. His critical comments were sometimes similar. I understand them. But I appreciate the support, at least ahead of schedule. After all, it has a link to its region, to northeastern Bohemia, the completion of the D11. Here I will tell you the often mentioned amendment - the so-called Polish method. My proposal, which was adopted by the Economic Committee, arose at the beginning of this March when we met personally with Minister Havlíček with the Polish Minister for Transport Adam Adamczyk. [[correct: Andrzej Adamczyk]] And he himself urged us to prepare the evidence, let us look into their legislation, their rights, to use it here. So I'm just saying again, it's from practice. Colleagues, and most likely Zdeněk Stanjura, talked about the fact that we don't know what it did in practice, that we don't have the evidence. [[correct: Zbyněk Stanjura]] So here's what I'm saying, we have, we know. But once again, I acknowledge the reminder. The Economic Committee got it somewhere before the second reading. Surely Members deserve to have such material, an analysis a little earlier. And here I intercede, and I ask the government, when the law is in the Senate, to help better discuss the Senate, so the senators can get the material here. And I'll be quick to quote it for you. The institute of interim decision - § 4a - we call it a small preliminary holding, this is what was created here in the House two years ago, so the Road and Motorway Directorate submitted 15 proposals for this instrument. And five cases have already been decided. You can say five cases on the entire highway network aren't enough. But remember the media-famous stories from the D11 road near Hradec Králové, from D3. Any one such case can really stop the whole building. And here you can see that five have already been used. It is similar with the Railway Administration, where four proposals were issued. And here's the interesting thing, that in two cases they were downloaded, there was no release. And it was because the expropriations eventually agreed with the original replacement offered to them in the friendly negotiations. And that's what's important. That's probably the key moment. The law is really starting to work on a psychological level, that is, expropriated citizens, those opponents of the state, suddenly come and they prefer to make a deal and they prefer to accept the increased price of that eight times. Second illustration example from the analysis - § 2 para. 5 and 6 - delivery in proceedings under the construction law with a large number of participants including service in the deceased. This is the case with the D35 highway, where The Road and Motorway Directorate is still spinning in circles and it is not possible to prove itself with the authority that gives a territorial decision that they have contacted everyone involved, that they have spoken to everyone, because the situation with hundreds of owners is simply changing - the land is being sold, the owners are dying, inheritance proceedings are being dealt with, and so on. And the Department of Transport here, as a special office, notes that it uses this institute in a hundred percent of all such cases. Unfortunately, it is not possible at this time to say in a qualified manner how much on average this has been reduced by territorial management. It wouldn't be serious of us, because it's been working since the second half of last year. The time is too short so far. Anyway, basic performances, that's what I wanted to prove, we do. Stanjura's already out on coffee, but I have to respond to him. He criticized the D35, why it hasn't been built yet. So, with your permission, I'll remember briefly. When I came into that policy in 2013 and asked why we weren't building on D35, for your idea, on the first two sections of Opatovic - this is the big crossroads between Pardubice and Hradec Králové - after the High Myth, they are two construction sections, about 27 kilometers, so there was against the state or against the ŘSD, 1,400 dissatisfied owners, which the state under this law at that time was able to offer only double the estimated prices. And the expropriation process was described vaguely - it was not possible to effectively expropriate. On these two sections is bought out today, the construction is running very intensively there, the sections are being built. And it's about a week ago, General Director Radek Mátl announced publicly after visiting the region that the construction will even be shortened by about six months and finished in 2021. It's the first part of the road. So you see, that ship, that slow steamer, we're slow to get going, and we're really getting that speed. I'll take a turn, by the way. There is a paradoxical situation where Pardubický kraj acquired CZK 2.7 billion on the sidecar to this highway three years ago for the construction of drawers. Today the freeway will be ready. The county doesn't seem to be able to catch up with it in time. So, from our position here, I'm glad that the state, state investors, show that they can build faster because of the laws that we've discussed here. And the last reaction to Helenka Langšádlová's criticism is that we don't know what the MP's amendment has done, and now we have government here. Here I want to remind you all, colleagues from the opposition, this was our agreement. This is how we agreed in 2017 that we would do the MP - Ondra Polanský used a beautiful word - hotfix, such as the basic one, and that the big changes, the revolutionary steps, will be discussed and prepared by the government's amendment. So here I just want to remind you that we are actually taking the steps that we agreed on at the beginning of this parliamentary term. But I give both Ivan Adamc and Helena Langšádlová the truth about the concerns of the RSD procedure. And here, perhaps I can afford it with the Minister, it's such a well-meaning appeal - because the practice is different. In many cases, General Director Radek Mátl - I have much to praise - wants to build. It assures us that they're always trying to make that deal with landowners or buildings, buildings, that it's always a much better deal, and it communicates with people. But unfortunately, and perhaps colleagues from the Pirates' MP will say so too, unfortunately it is not always so, it is not always 100%. And I see in practice that this is about people and that, for example, the quality of regional directors is simply different. In some parts of the Republic, and I can be specific, in the Western part, there are really professionals who are progressive, dealing with people. Unfortunately, in other parts, and it is also necessary for me in my region, the approach to citizens and to the civil public is much worse and puts unnecessary problems on the line. And I admit publicly and to the debate that I myself would not like to put a strong instrument in the hands of such people, which will then be used against the citizens. So I believe that this, too, will gradually improve our colleagues at ŘSD. Thank you for your attention and I give the floor to other Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u17	Thank you. Mr Černohorský, a Member of Montenegro, wants to respond with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna make it quick for the previous speaker. The problem that we consistently blame for the law is - and here I will correct it through Mr President - we do not have the numbers, you have the numbers. She's not in the explanatory report, so did President Stanjura. The information about how many times the interim holding was used, so it should have been part of the bill's proposal to show us that it really worked, it should have been explained in more detail what impact it would have on the constructions that we are now adding there. I'll take care of it when I sign up at the end. Why are there nuclear power plants? What do we need on those roads we're adding now? What condition are they in? How did we move on? How will that benefit them? That's what's supposed to be in the explanatory memorandum. So the whole reason message is totally sloppy for three ministries to do it. And then you, as Members, are following up on the information that should have already been inside the explanatory memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u19	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Polanský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm just very brief on Martin. I didn't say the knowledge and the mechanisms didn't come out of practice. I said they weren't properly justified. The moment, for example, there. I want to put the Polish road, that is. merge the preliminary holding directly with the territorial management, so it is necessary to calculate exactly what it will mean, what impact it will have and how much it will be, for example. The building will speed up. Unfortunately, there are no such numbers in the whole explanatory memorandum to the law. And the fiction of consent, I've mentioned that here several times, which is justified by one completely vague sentence. And that's just not the way to do it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u21	Thank you. Mr Luzar is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak. Of course, it is a mandatory introduction to the speech, but I really thought that this proposal in the debate would remain on the material level of third reading and we would not repeat here the debates that were raised on the Economic Committee, and the debates might be rather partly ideological, partly factual, but mostly outside of the third reading. That's why I volunteered to respond to what was said here. I can say that unfortunately, there is some significant misunderstand on the part of the pirát - and perhaps it also stems from their mostly young age - from what has happened here. Numbers, arguments. Colleagues, colleagues, look into each of your regions, you will surely find the construction that stands. Even fellow pirát will certainly find places in their regions that are able to document precisely and clearly why some construction stands. And when they find out what's stopping it, they find that it's not nature's protection, that it's not some disrespect for property, that it's not the violence of civil servants against poor citizens, but after all, they find the money package, the crippled thirty silver ones that many landowners and speculators take at the expense of those who wait for those buildings to speed them up. I can remind you of the examples from the Moravian-Silesian region - and I can see that a colleague takes off for a microphone, and I'd be happy to say if I'm wrong. There's been a policy of responsibility for a citizen for 30 years here, and the state shouldn't stop him from expressing that responsibility. And yet the citizen, the owner, the owner is responsible and knows how to proceed and what to want. And over the past 30 years, we've learned that they're such citizens. But unfortunately, there are also a lot of those who don't respect those people - and I can remind you of the 30,000 people of Poruba, who have waited years to bypass their housing estate, and thousands of cars have been going through there every day, to one single person who has used all the possibilities and, in my opinion, beyond the edges of any regulations to block his 30 silver pieces. And that's why we're here today and why we're preparing this proposal. And again there are tendencies, some constructions not, some constructions do. Who here dares to say that this particular building doesn't have the problems and there's no need to put it there? We are not in a position to determine in advance how this situation will develop, so I am looking for a reasonable compromise of proposals. I'm opposed to lists that you put something in at one point, but in a month, two, three, it might be a little shifted elsewhere, and it's no use, or on the other hand, you'd like to add something, because you've come across problems. That is why I will support the vote here in Poland, but I would not like it to end with the word Polish, but let us say a modern European model of construction and a procedure to speed up the construction of state infrastructure. On the other hand, I wonder why it could not be used on large buildings and other buildings. And most importantly, we're talking here like there's a group of civil servants who deliberately want to use all their options that the building law and others are giving them to do something about the owners. And I don't want to anticipate. On the other hand, we have a minister who discusses the construction law, and there it is exactly the opposite in these arguments - for those officials are the best and need not to pass on to them, and they know best and do not take away what they are doing, they are supposed to decide, and the legislators who dare, for they are the best of us, and the mayors here stand in one hand and fight for them as good officials and how they should stay where they are, and everything is only in the wrong law. Take your pick. I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. And it doesn't need to be reproached on one side, and on the other side it's not necessary to make it look like they're trying to hurt someone, because they're supposed to push through some construction, and they're in the mood to finish the construction on time according to legal limits, and they've come across some unpleasantness. Everyone's mistaken. The worst part is that the officials don't only have one building on the table, they have dozens of constructions they're dealing with, and they're facing a man with a vision of big profits and big money, and he hires the best lawyers to find some loopholes against them in administrative law, which is quite difficult, when they fail to keep something, and he seeks these opportunities to keep those who are interested in it as a result, compared to those who just want to make money on it. That's why. And I didn't want to bring this policy here, but unfortunately, many arguments are exactly as if they didn't know what had slowed this country down and why we are somewhere in the framework of construction proceedings beyond developing countries. Let's look for the foundation behind everything. Parliament approved the buy-in prices, approved the options, and I think that today there is no longer a person who would say that when the state needs something and goes through legal expropriation, it is a financial loss. On the contrary, there are now cases of the opposite process where those responsible landowners, who decided to help their fellow citizens and sold part of their land right in the first stage of the buyout requests, and said well, I'm gonna leave my land, the family property, the hereditary property that I acquired to lead the way here, because I understand the people who are suffering - so today they're finally wondering what I did, why did I do it? - Because here someone gets three times more and pushes and the state still suits him. - Why should I be the fool and he's the smart one and he's still praising him here, fighting for the interests of private property. Let's also think about what the target is. And here I think this is the procedure. And the procedure may not be the best. Maybe there are better models, but over the years we've been trying to speed up this construction, maybe it's the only thing we've come up with, and we're able to agree and we could go through this Parliament so we can give the state an attempt to speed up the construction. Because what will happen in the context of the development of the Czech Republic and the efforts to invest in this crisis? You'll have a lot of money - and where will the projects be? Snap, Snap and more? They're gonna get a lot of money all of a sudden, and we're gonna say great, we've got money, and we could theoretically have a high-speed railroad within two years. Well, we won't, because if this law doesn't exist, we'll run into dozens of purchases that will only wait for them to evaluate their land, and they don't care what the rest of society will do. And that's the target that's here. And that is why we will support the idea of really getting it into the pace that is common in Europe. [[10.30 hours]] And again, let's not use the name of the Polish shortcut model, please, but let's take it as a model of modern buyout, modern land acquisition for construction in most Europe, where they also have the problem and found this way. It's not unconstitutional. And if you think it is, let it go into that constitutionality test. I'm not resisting it, and I'm supporting it. I don't mind the Constitutional Court's commenting on this, but let's not defend this attempt here to really radically speed up all the construction. This is also a reservation to those who say, for example, nuclear energy, no, line constructions, why should gasmen be there, why should there be energy, telecommunications? They're private companies. They have the funds and the means to buy it out, to give it three times, five times, a hundred times what the state might give. So they're private and acting in private. Yes, you're right, and many speculate about it. I'd rather sell to one than the state, because it's regulated by regulations as much as it can, and I'll ask him. But in the end, we're all gonna pay for it because we want the communication, we want the gas pipeline, and who's gonna pay for it? The utility guys who finally get it because the owner is going to break it down into a price, quite logically. So let's also think about not supporting land speculation, and it's not good in either of the fields, whether it's a state, whether it's a private person, whether it's some investor who wants to build something. There should just be clear rules for everyone here, not for us to make laws for speculators here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u23	Thank you. Mr Černohorský will speak with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u24	Thank you for the floor. I assume the Poruba bypass was supposed to be the Long Red. It must be said that this construction was not part of the 400th, through Mr President, in this case we would be helped by a good building law rather than by an amendment of the 400th. And similarly, we would find a lot of cases in the whole Czech Republic, where the 48th has no influence, but we need a good building law. And the question we're supposed to ask ourselves here shouldn't be why we don't put some buildings in there, but why we put those buildings in there. Because it's gonna bring us something if we put in nuclear power plants at this point? That's what I thought I'd read in the explanatory report, because we're building on the land that those nuclear power plants already have. Simplifying documentation? That's not gonna help us, because that's where it's governed by the atomic law, where the documentation has to be clearly given to the office. So what's it gonna bring us? In the previous law, at the parliamentary amendment, the Ministry of Transport has always prepared for us the argumentator for the individual constructions that will bring us if we put the construction there. And we've always had an analysis of what it would mean for the building in the next two years. Shall we move somewhere, or would the building stand? But in this case, even though the Ministry knew exactly what we were going to ask, this was missing. We knew that in two years it would start to build on this construction if we put it in there, and there was some kind of clearly given key. And especially this novel isn't exactly about it - it's where some buildings are added, but it's more about the energy infrastructure. So it's always necessary that we interfere in some way here, so if the Constitutional Court asks us why you put it there, then we need to know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u25	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Holomčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what my colleague Luzar here has said, which I do not see now. It becomes a sad habit that when some older colleagues run out of arguments, they start arguing with age. So please listen to each other! After all, what we are criticizing here is that the Ministry has not justified the need for this amendment enough, it has not justified the need to amend a law that has been in force for less than two years. There's just no analysis, no numbers, no data in the explanatory statement. And why are the numbers, the analysis and the data missing from the explanatory statement? They're not missing because the pirát are too young. It's missing because the Ministry just didn't put it there. So let's argue in a matter of fact! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u27	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to be among you, or I would not like to be, but I am one of those who does not like the inclusion of buildings in the list of constructions, which cannot be considered as crucial, and have been there for some reason additionally. And actually, that's how the list was supplemented, and that's why I can't support this law, this amendment. And I would like to mention one example. We all received an email from Mr. Ondřej Konvička for Zlín, who warned us about the problem of the construction of the planned dam Skalička on the river Bečva. He points out that Bečva is the largest gravel river in the Czech Republic and its energy transforms the movement of gravel. And if this energy doesn't dodge, it will increase erosion under the dam, and the deep river will lower the groundwater levels. The locals have a problem with water disappearing from the wells. We were dealing with a drought here yesterday. The Ministry of the Environment spends a great deal of money looking for new water sources and for increased protection of water resources, and we are proposing to include or propose a construction that will, on the contrary, endanger the sources of drinking water in the region. The reason why the Skalička dam is important is that it has to increase the recreational potential of the place, but it will actually take the form of a shallow pond and even if the water is drained at a minimum, the level will drop by tens of meters and there will only be shores full of mud. I don't think that's a two-way street idea. And yet the current river, which is popular with watermen, actually becomes unattractive to them. So it has a completely opposite impact on the recreational potential of this territory. At the same time, there is a great risk of affecting the square karst and waters necessary for the spa there. And what I would like to stress is that the Bečva River is currently the free hand of nature - the flow has been meandrified, the creation of gravel benches and the creation of unique biotopes, and we will actually destroy this completely by building this dam. What the Ministry of the Environment puts in great resources to restore the original shape of the flows and revitalize them in a more natural-like shape, we will completely destroy it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u29	Thank you. Mr Válek wants to respond with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u30	I am glad that this legislation is under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, and I will certainly be glad if any legislation will help speed up construction. This extremely awkward situation, when we started building the highway from Brno to Vienna far before the Rakušák from Vienna to Brno, and it turned out that Rakušák are on the border and we don't know which way yet, so I wouldn't like to experience it with any other construction. On the other hand, I absolutely understand the argument that it has to be in every law - we talked about it in the compensation law, where it is amazing to compensate for the impact of the covid on health, but one wants to know exactly how they will be compensated in one, two, three specific examples, which will be in the decree that we obviously did not have. And here it should be in the explanatory statement. This means that I would ask very much for one particular example - if he were from the South Moravian Region, I would be very grateful - where you could describe to me in some way, I did not give it from the explanatory report, how we would speed up this construction by means of this law. If he wasn't, he'd be something, and now that we're gonna accept the law, that's why he's gonna speed it up. I think it's very simple, it's easy, and a lot of these discussions will dull it. I just trust that no one will step up and say I'm too old to understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Zlesák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond to my colleague Balcarová's statement, and I have to respond as a waterman, because what has been said here is really incredibly stupid. The fact that the river is gravely, like Bečva is, and that there is still gravel and other sediments, doesn't mean that if you build a dam there, so that the water rests there, it has the strength and under the dam it starts to carry the gravel away much more. That's absolute nonsense. It's dark. I'd like to avoid these arguments here. Not everything written on the Internet is true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u33	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u34	Thank you. The waterworks Skalička was mentioned here. I do not know how many Members of this House live in a locality under this water work and were washed out in 1997 by floods. I am from a location that is directly affected by the importance of this waterworks, because all the flood measures we are doing in the Boundaries of Moravia, Lipník, Přerov and other municipalities that have been realized or will be implemented are made for 50 years of water, because if we wanted to manage 1997 it is not possible tomodulate and manage it without the necessary water capacity to be detained within the Skalička waterworks. And it's not decided today whether it's gonna be a dry cop or whether it's gonna be a constant horny water tank. The options at issue are on the table today. But please, let us not question the importance of this site and the solution for flood protection of more than hundreds of thousands of people. I live in Rokytnice near Přerov. Go tell the people in the middle of the village that was underwater in 1997, go to Troubek, go to Přerov, go to places where people haven't lost their homes, lost their lives, go tell them that this waterworks won't be there. So please, let's always keep in mind, not only does it look nice at first sight, just say "some waterworks we don't need" but also rationally wonder why we want to place them there and what their purposes are and what impact it has on the lives of people who don't live completely easily. When more rainfall is reported, many middle and older people are really afraid not to repeat the 1997 situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u35	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u36	Thank you for the floor. I'll take one comment. Thirty years we've been talking about the construction and navigation of the Elbe. Thirty years. Thirty years ago, I ended up on the Czechoslovak Lab cruise. The Czechoslovak Lab cruise had a thousand ships, 1,200 ships. It provided transport mainly for the chemical industry, farmers, metallurgical industry, investment units. These are four sectors of the Czech industry, which need significantly to make sure there is a Czechoslovak Lab cruise in order for there to be a waterway. Thirty years have been discussed in this democratic country. Do you know what the result is? The Czechoslovak Lab cruise exists only formally on paper, the last 34 ships were sold five months ago and in principle water transport as one of the modes of transport does not exist. Farmers who import thousands of tons of soy scrap from all over the world bring them up to two euros of money. They export their products, barley and malts for up to two euros a price. To compensate for competition, they can only do one thing - reduce wages in this field. That's how it is in chemistry. We import thousands of tons of apathy from Murmansk and from all over the world and export fertilizers. To be competitive with German companies, we lower wages. In investment units, we lower wages to be competitive, because we are constantly discussing something that is meant to protect nature. But man is part of nature. And it compensates for the damage to nature by creating compensation for the profits of these companies. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] However, we've never done it. We've ruined everything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u37	Thank you. It seems that Mr Birke has come to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, although I am the second-to-last member of the debate, let me share with you some insight into the novel which we all have before us and which we are most likely to vote in the next few minutes, and the look of a person, or rather, the mayor who has built something somewhere, has already been part of the negotiations with people to whom he had to say that their house will be demolished thanks to the line construction. And believe me, if the secretariat gives you this meeting for Friday afternoon, you have a very bad weekend, because this meeting is very, very, very unpleasant. Emotional and unpleasant. And now imagine and put yourself in the role of those people who haven't really known for decades whether their house will be demolished or not, and that's because individual proceedings persist - whether zoning decisions, building permits and others, God forbid when the EIA comes in - for decades. I'm saying this for the reason that I think - and now please don't make it sound stupid, I have great respect and respect for any colleague, and I'm not going to say that someone is older, younger, someone has more experience, someone has just different, smaller or higher education, we're all just somebody and everyone is somehow looking at this thing. The truth is, indisputablely, I have to say that in ten years as mayor, I have experienced one more thing besides what I was talking about a moment ago, because the coin always has two sides and nothing is black and white and easy so that you snap your fingers and the thing can be solved immediately. Yes, if you have a move on the goal, if of course you have an influence and if you have information, it often accelerates, but the truth is, if it ever takes a long time, and believe me, in this country the line construction you want to start sometimes takes a territorial decision, a building permit, indeed more than ten years. Ten years! And I'm really, really close to the wall. Well, sometimes the mayor and the mayor, and maybe the officials, but especially the people involved, they just run out of patience. Those people stop believing it and say, "Should we still paint the fence?" Do we still have to tear down the fence? Should we put in gutters that are leaking badly now, or maybe leaking well? I don't know. In short and well, I want to start by saying that this is quite a crucial thing. I will speak not only as mayor, but I will, of course, speak as a member of the government's social democracy. I want to say that I actually witnessed not only two years ago the so-called 40-sixteen working woman that we're gonna approve today, but the 40-sixteen that came in today and we all have her in front of us. I'm not going to repeat what happened on the Economic Committee. I very much appreciate that the debate has never, never, ever been political, ever, because we just agreed, all those who have some elementary experience with this law, whether they are mayors or whether they are environmental defenders, but we just agreed that we will not make it a so-called political law, that it will be a substantive debate. And I have to say and to appreciate, whether it was two years ago, it was this year or this year, this year, even though a covid got into it, it was always a substantive debate in all those levels that were going on there. The truth is, in addition to the fact that these people haven't been sure for decades, that is, we're talking about people who will be offended about their homes being demolished, so it's another thing that - and now I'm going to talk about transit, because we're a transit country - actually everything from the south that goes north is going through the Czech Republic. [[10.50 hours]] So let me say my point of view to the mayor who's right at the border. And since I've been mayor for ten years, as I said, the matter isn't black and white, so make a change to the law of construction - and I look at Minister Dostálová, well, with all due respect, I don't envy her at all, because hitting everyone's interests is almost impossible. It's like when you hit a needle in-- I don't know, I can't think of any other intelligent analogy right now. Simply and well, hit it from 100 meters with a BB gun when the wind blows from the right, and it will be very hard, into the pingpong ball. [[Response to a note from the O.R.]] Milan, I think it's good. There. The second thing is, the truth is that I am the mayor of the border - now seriously - when the Polák, and so I want to pick up the fact that there is actually a Polish variant here on the table where in Poland - and because I have a number of friends from among the mayors - the land in Poland is sacred. Always has been. And look, even though it's sacred, the Polák are on the border with the highways. They're there and they say, "When will you be there?" And we're with D11, I don't know exactly how much Trutnov it is, but I think 40 km, I don't want to say it exactly. So, in short, and well, the negotiations are going very unpleasantly. The negotiations are even taking place in my town hall, the Polish Road and Motorway Directorate and the Czech Road and Motorway Directorate, and I have to say that it is often not about hitting the two lanes together, but rather about what we are doing there, why it takes so long and when we are actually going to be there, which is the opinion for me, and not just for me as mayor, but also for the club, the coalition club of social democracy - that is why we will vote in favour of this material. Another thing that is very important to me is the increase of the expert opinion on the land concerned. And because we're really negotiating and I'm helping myself, and I wouldn't have to be mayor because it's a matter of state, but I'm really trying to help negotiate because I know these people personally, so I'm trying to treat them seriously about their house being leveled because they're going to run a freeway or bypass, so I'm really glad that the expert opinion coefficient will be increased. Well, the third thing is a debatable list. You know, as mayor of the city, when you have a ten-year material that you keep repeating and repeating and discussing with your coalition partners or with your opposition, you go to a stage where you constantly argue, they argue, and you say for one beautiful moment: I will cross you and have it approved, because it simply is not able to stand it, because we simply will never have the same opinion on some things. It just is, but it's a good thing it is. It wouldn't be good if we all felt the same way about the same thing. And that is why I want to say that even though, or precisely because the list is supplemented by construction, there is no type of kindergarten in a city, but there is either a nuclear block or part of a nuclear power plant, there is a significant waterworks. Well, damn it, I'm sorry, but what else would be on those lists other than the state priority? You can, of course, say, well at what stage it is, but the state must have some state priority, and I say that I would not be surprised at all and would not be at all opposed to having any more concrete ones - and what Mr Foldyna here, for example, spoke of through you, Mr President, such as those waterworks. She's part of that list, but the truth is, to some extent, some things haven't really been there for 30 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to make a summary, from this will be the Minister of Industry, who will do the final summary before the key vote, but let me ask you whether you will vote on individual amendments as you see fit, but it is definitely worth approving the law. Why? 'Cause if you don't do anything, you don't mess up anything. That's the password, and the truth is that if the law doesn't pass, believe me, the negotiations with the Polák and maybe the Rakušák - and the MPs who are in other regions, at other borders, like Germany, even if there's a highway move to Germany, but beware, we have a R6 coming up, so I just want to say that they're in the same position that they won't know the individual representatives of the individual states what to say, because they won't be at the border, as they say, on time with the highway. So, in short and well, please, reason into the hand, and I would like to ask you that the whole time, the whole half year and two years before, we didn't really deal with the traffic and the four hundred and sixty-six that it wasn't right or left. We can have a whole series of opinions on her, but the truth is that she's certainly sending us forward and moving us forward, so I would ask for her approval so that she can pay, and not only can she pay, but she could allow us to build. And not only to the state, but also to the regions, and especially to the mayors, who have the same problems as I have, because their cities pass thousands of trucks today and daily. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u39	Thank you and Mr Třešňák is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u40	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to start my speech on the general level of preparation of Act 416, respectively. how fragile the compromise of almost all parties in the Chamber of Deputies was then the original, two-year-old version, but the previous speakers have already spoken about this quite widely. So I will repeat only the two basic pillars, which were the idea of Act 416, and that is easier expropriation and simplified documentation. However, there were actually buildings in the annex that no longer needed to expropriate the land or those requirements for their documentation are equally governed by a special law, as mentioned by a colleague of Černohorský. Mr Birke also spoke here as mayor, and unlike him, as mayor during that one period, I was not put in a position where I had to tell someone to move out of my home. However, many of these buildings are also behind me from the position of the city, and not only that, because I had previously participated in the preparation of the construction of the third and fourth block in Temelín Power Plant, which was then cut by the cancelled selection process and started focusing on the locality of Dukovan. And, yes, the list is supplemented by large constructions, although outside the original intention of Law 416, while relatively simple things that can move us forward have been completely forgotten in the proposal and are on the table in the form of parliamentary amendments. If we're talking about speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure, I have to repeat again quickly the same thing I mentioned here at second reading, because the development of electromobility has been completely forgotten. Although we can have different views on it, it is appropriate to remind us that our economy is entirely dependent on the automotive industry, and therefore it cannot be completely ignored the established trend in the development of electromobility if we do not want to sink the entire industry sector. At that meeting yesterday at the last point of climate change, there were slight hints from some colleagues, albeit on a rational basis, and they could actually be agreed with, for example, that humanity would one day switch from internal combustion engines to something else, but, and I will add that, it can no longer be argued that the reasons would be purely economic. [[11.00 hours]] Of course, I can also think about the emission limits set by the European Union, as well as about some direct subsidies for purchasing vehicles, but I do not want to sink the Czech automotive industry either, just as I do not want there to be wired streets where electric car owners will throw window extensions to recharge their vehicle, while the pedestrian or cyclist will then kill himself for the cable at night. Therefore, please let us remove the unnecessary bureaucracy, the administration of the construction of small charging stations in cities, and precisely to avoid those wired streets with which some cities in Western Europe are already facing. There are, therefore, three amendments on the table, F2, which exempts the obligation from both the construction process and the territorial one, including the related structures. Then point C, which releases from the building permit, and point F1 as the most necessary, which releases from the building and leaves the site. In any case, any of these options will be forward, but let me explain why I will then promote the pre-routine of the F2 proposal for the procedure, which actually had the broadest support of the six parties in the House. In fact, as I mentioned, a point u is added to Section 79, i.e. a charging station equipped exclusively with a normal charging point, meeting the conditions of the special legislation, which is Act 311/2006 Coll., including their related structures, equipment and technical infrastructure. I will mention why this document is important - because accessories can be, for example, anti-regression columns, detection loops, parking spaces, or even a small fuse box. And it's really not going to be anything new in that law, because when we look at the same paragraph at j, which solves antennas, it's written very similarly. So the argument that, for example, those related structures and infrastructure can't be there is quite odd. So once again, I'm going to ask for the support of the F2 proposal and possibly the others, C and F1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u41	Thank you. Mr Černohorský, a Member of Montenegro, has entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u42	Thank you for the floor. Let me not still have those factual ones, so I would like to comment on some of the amendments that have been tabled. I'm sure I'd like to ask the Minister to explain to us here how they'll speed up nuclear power plants while they're there. But I would like to pause for one more amendment that I have tabled. It's the removal of one part of the gas system. I'd like to read the part of the justification that the Ministry itself gave us. I therefore have a disagreeable opinion from the Ministry of Industry and Trade that the Ministry of Industry and Trade supports the amendment of my colleague Pustějovskýějovský, who replaces the Capacity4Gas pipeline, which is proposed in the government proposal, with the Moravia pipeline, because Capacity4Gas already has all the property matters resolved and is in implementation. And that's exactly what we were here to point out that the Ministry didn't do any analysis of whether the buildings had to be there, and they got there basically - I don't know if the Minister would explain how they got there, but it looks like they were pulling out of a hat and putting just what came out. If I propose an exchange for the procedure, it is therefore a proposal M4, which should be the case if my colleague does not correct me, precisely the proposal in which we remove the pipeline, which is therefore already implemented and clearly does not need to be in the law, and then there is Amendment A4 from the Economic Committee, which is currently erasing the pipeline to others. So, in this case, I will propose that A4 be voted first, which means a proposal from my colleague Pustějovský, because if he has deleted it, of course my proposal to remove the construction is no longer unvoting. At that point, we would have a completely different pipeline than that which came to us by a government amendment, but in case it was not supported by chance, we could then vote on my M4 amendment, which this pipeline, which is already useless there, would have included. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u43	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? The Prime Minister is reporting for the debate, yes, please. Or the final word? So I finish the debate, no one comes forward, and the minister has an interest in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u44	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for all your comments. Maybe I'd sum it up pretty neatly. "Mr. Administrator, you must try harder." I understand partial criticisms from the opposition, I think that's part of it, I think it's still quite merciful in principle. And let me explain a few more things here. A consensus or disagreement between all the resorts that worked on it. It is an extremely demanding law, which is also technically complex and very simply hits it. Put together critical infrastructure, put together transport constructions, put together energy, put together electronic communication, connect it with railway etc. It's not really easy. But for what it's worth, the government's proposal was submitted with the approval of all the ministries. Yes, of course, there were a number of agreed, disagreeable opinions with the amendments, which is understandable, which is normal and probably cannot be otherwise. This means, the important thing is, as it happened, that the two ministries - transport and industry - eventually agreed that there were zero contradictions. There were partial reservations with the Government's Legislative Council, but it was no debacle, the law is really challenging. The important thing is that as a whole, it was clearly approved by the government. I take for important arguments what fell here in the sense of blindness and the binding, that year and a half old parliamentary proposal. At first I would say that he was good and that it was working, that a lot of things had improved. It's a fact, and here I was taking it with the "Mr. Administrator, you have to try harder" that it could have gone into the law, or the novel, so that everyone would have got to know it. I mean, with all the results, whether it was an interim decision, the fiction of consent, I don't know, narrowing down the number of authorities. We finally gave it up, we put it on the Economic Committee, but I agree and I take the argument that it would probably be a good idea to put it now, provided it passes, to the Senate and avoid any such discussions. One-third cut. There was a challenge who would put their head on the chopping block for that. I'd put it, the head on the block for it. Not because I'm based on the fact that I've got one traffic and another industrial head today, and if I lose one, I'll survive. But I believe it. Given how this is conceived at the moment, including the Polish model, it is a prerequisite that we are really going to shorten it. It will not be the only sufficient assumption, it must be - and here I would agree with the consistency of the proceedings, with communication, everything is connected to this, but if you look at the examples when I was asked to say at least some where I could manage it, then definitely D35. We all know that this is simply the key artery from eastern Bohemia to the center of Moravia. According to our calculations, it's three, four years faster. D11 fell here several times. There's only one thing I'd really poke out of that D11. It's not just that it's going to meet the Polish S3 and that the Polish S3 will reach the border in 2024, and if we don't do this, we won't be able to do it until 2026, maybe even 2027, 2026 might be able to handle it, two years will be the difference. I'd just like to point out what the difference is. If at least it turns out that the Polák end up at the border and connect it to an "A" or a "B," you could still stand that. The trouble we're in is that they really end up in the fields. And that's going to be a debacle between us in 2024. And it's gonna be a debacle for any government that-- if we want to speculate who's gonna be here, I don't know, we can't say for sure who's gonna be sitting here in that government garrison, but we know for sure that it's gonna end up in that field. And this will indeed be an international disgrace. So even for this reason, I would really appeal to us to do it, because then we can do it. Nuclear resources. The essence isn't whether it's a nuclear source or not a nuclear source. The point is not to speculate on the purchase of land by strategic or critical infrastructure. And then we can plant things on that list and wonder if it belongs or doesn't belong there. A nuclear source is a critical infrastructure, perhaps the most critical one here. That means, from this logic, I don't see why he shouldn't be there. [[11.10 hours]] Unfortunately, those owners here can't bet on it, however much we all wish they were all the good owners with whom serious communication can be arranged. Mostly, yes. The problem is, it only takes one, one that we can't deal with, and we've had a problem for years. That's why we're voting for the Polish model, which is why we're choosing this path. Fictions, it's been dropped a few times, we're not defending it, they're finally in the government's proposal for a novel. Let me thank you again for the discussion. In a correct and objective way, I'm saying that I can imagine that the whole proposal could be even more sophisticated, even better, that there might be something better that could be handled, and I'm taking the partial criticism, and I can imagine that it could be. But I can't imagine anyone who wants to speed up the construction of strategic infrastructure, roads, motorways today, and doesn't want to harm the authorities concerned, will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u45	Thank you. That was the Minister's final word. Apologies. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologises from 13.30 to the end of the meeting for personal reasons, Mr Jaroslav Martinů from 12.30 to the end of the meeting for working reasons, President Michálek apologises from the meeting until the beginning of the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote. The rapporteur's final word before he gives us the amendments and the vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u46	Thank you. I know we've been on this law for a long time, but I have to say two things briefly as rapporteur in that final word. There was a constitutionality test in the debate. I want to remind you that our parliamentary amendment, two years old, is somewhere in the Constitutional Court. And now, as I say, I speak with all seriousness and humility at the same time. I'd really like the Constitutional Court to decide, and I'm sad that it didn't. Because either way, any decision would be right. It would help us and guide us in these other considerations and preparations, whether the attachment we have now is the right way or not. I'm not hiding that I'm more opposed to the attachment, but I respected the political agreement that was made here. Of course, I cannot and will not influence the decision of the court in any way, but with humility, this is meant to be a request from me for the Constitutional Court to decide on this matter. An example of Poland. When I spoke to the Polish Minister of Transport, he gave me a smiling example. When they started one of their buildings north of our borders and went to the opening, he had a vizo that citizens would protest there. He came here with fear of what was going to happen, and ladies and gentlemen, believe it or not, those people protested there for wanting to be expropriated, and that they wanted to be redeemed, too. Because the Polish state can offer a good price for their properties. And I believe that maybe we'll be getting a little closer to that, too. I'll remind you that we're increasing the compensation for real estate to 1.5 times the estimated price. Last sentence. I'm begging you not to get mad at me if I'm a little nostalgic. I really consider this law personal. I've been here since 2013 for the fourth time, twice as rapporteur, twice as promoter of the novels. We have really moved it far away from the original version in individual evolutionary steps, which follow up and shift in public opinion as well. And I believe that today it is a really good, strong, ambitious proposal that gives the state effective tools to complete, complete, the key road infrastructure, and also the railway infrastructure, to start construction of high-speed lines. We are also planning new ways of financing the infrastructure - PPP projects, the National Development Fund. We'll have a chance to fund the infrastructure and raise the money, but we need to be able to build it fast. And I believe, colleagues, that our citizens, our voters, and it doesn't matter if they deserve it from the left, from the right part of the spectrum, and that this will also be a business card for the entire Chamber of Deputies, that we are able to agree on a good and high-quality non-political law. That's why I'm asking for his support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u47	Thank you. Mr. Černohorský, representing the President of the Pirates Club, will now speak with priority, and the Club President is excused. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to draw the Minister's attention to two things. First of all, those nuclear power plants, they're not talking about land speculation. Because you're already building on land or where the nuclear power plant is now. And the other thing. D11 was already in the previous novel. That means it has nothing to do with the current amendment, which has already been included in the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u49	Thank you. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. [[A Member of the Cherry Man is reporting for the floor.]] I can't give a word. It is not possible to give the floor to anyone... the debate is over, only the one who has the priority right has the floor, and now it is the rapporteur's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u50	I don't think there's a dispute. I will now propose a procedure in accordance with what he has proposed and have prepared for you a guarantee economic committee. Of course, it is possible to counter-proposition the procedure and make proposals for a different procedure. We'll decide on that vote. I guess that's how I see it. So now, as rapporteur for this law, I propose to you, colleagues, a procedure in accordance with resolution 673/3 of the Guarantee Economic Committee. The design of the procedure is as follows. The first step - a motion for rejection, which was made at second reading. The second step is the proposals for legislative technical adaptations. Next - Amendment M1 by a Member of Černohorský. Furthermore, Amendment I4 of Mr Kolovratník, who is linked and, if voted, is an unvoting A1 of the Economic Committee. In the event of not voting I4, we are voting Amendment A1. Fifth step - Amendment A2 to the Economic Committee. Another M3 of the Member of Montenegro. If the vote were to be taken, the A3 of the Economic Committee shall be unvoting. In the event that M3 does not vote, vote A3. In addition, the M4 amendment to Mr Cernohorska. In the event of a vote, the A4 of the Economic Committee shall be unvoting. In the event that M4 does not vote, vote A4. In addition, individual proposals. M5 Member of Černohorský. A5 Economic Committee, A6 Economic Committee, A7 Economic Committee. The following are the three amendments made by Mr Marian Jurečka in the order of L1. If it is voted, it is unvoting L2, L3. Next, L. If voted, the L3 is unvoting. And in the end, the L3 itself. Furthermore, in logical order, in the order of contents, the individual units of the Economic Committee. One vote A8 to A26. Next vote A27 to A34. Then A35 to A37. Then separately A38, A39. In addition, proposal B by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. The next step is the rope of two proposals. Proposal C by Mr Petr Dolínek. Should he be voted, he is an unvoting F2 MP of Třešňák. In the event of failure to vote, proposal C shall vote F2. Another rope proposal by Mr D1 of Mr Ondřej Polanský. If voted, K4 and K6 will not be voted. In the event of failure to vote D1, vote K4. If K4 is voted, it is unvoting K6. In the event of not voting K4 vote K6. Furthermore, the separate proposals D2, D3 and D4 of Mr Ondřej Polanský. Next, the last rope. The proposal by Mr G Jan Birke. If voted, the D5 and D6 of Ondřej Polanský are unvoted. In the absence of a vote on proposal G to vote on proposals D5 and D6 separately. And now a series of individual amendments. E Member Balcarová's proposal, F1 of Member Třešňák, I1, I2, I3 of Member Kolovratník, J of Member Matušovská, K5 of Member Kupka, K1, K2, K3 and K7, all individually by Member Martin Kupka. In addition, the M2 of the Member of Montenegro. And the last individual amendment under the letter N by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Finally, I propose to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u51	Thank you. There's been a draft of the procedure. Does anyone else have a proposal for a procedure? Yes, Mr Černohorskýý and Mr Třešňák are also reporting. Yes, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u52	Thank you for the floor. As I said in the general debate, I would suggest that Amendment A4 from the Economic Committee be voted first, which is the amendment of my colleague Pustějovskýějovský. And then only if he wasn't accepted would the M4 be voted. As I was saying, we in that A4 are going to decide first if we're going to trade it for another pipeline. If this did not seem reasonable enough to you and you would not support this proposal, then it is unnecessary for the original pipeline to remain in the bill and we could remove it with that amendment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u53	Thank you. That was one counterproposal. With another counter-proposal, Mr Třešňák will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u54	Thank you. I will merely propose an adjustment to the procedure that I mentioned in the debate, i.e. putting the vote on point F2 before point C. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u55	Yes. First of all, we will vote on counter-surveillances as they have been said. The first counter-proposal was made by Mr Černohorský, and we will deal with this by voting at the moment. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 239. Registered 155 Members, for 27, against 61. The motion was not accepted. The second counterproposal was tabled by Mr Třešňák, which I am now voting on. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 240. Registered 155 Members, for 26, against 63. Even this counterproposal was not accepted. And now we will vote on the procedure as presented by the rapporteur. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 241. Registered 155 Members, for 138, against 1. We've approved the procedure and we'll follow it. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u56	Thank you and please vote first. It is Mr Cernohorsky's second reading motion to reject the law. The Economic Committee has not voted on this proposal, I do not have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u57	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 242. Registered 155 Members, for 18, against 117. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u58	Thank you. Now proposals for legislative technical adaptations. The opinion, therefore, was not submitted to the Economic Committee, so I do not have the opinion of the Committee, but it is a proposal for legislative technical adaptations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u59	Do we have legislative technical amendments to vote on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u60	Yes, I presented them in the debate and they are filed in legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u61	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 243. Registered 155 MPs, for 153, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u62	Thank you. Now, the M1 amendment to Mr Lukáš Černohorský. With this proposal, the Member releases an adjustment to the interim decision for the non-chosen energy infrastructure. This is the abolition of the amendment proposal itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u63	Committee opinion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u64	The opinion of the Committee shall be negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u65	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 244. Registered 155 Members, for 18, against 101. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u66	Thank you. Now, proposal I4. It's my parliamentary proposal. If he was voted, he would not be a voting A1. This proposal is de facto a legislative technical regulation or an improvement of this original A1 already agreed on by the Economic Committee. This amendment, even in its original form, allows the construction of transport infrastructure to be applied at the same time as the location and permit of the construction as well as for expropriation. So it's de facto the Polish method.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u67	Committee opinion? [[Positive.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 245. Registered 155 Members, for 130, against 17. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u68	Thank you. It is a very strong support for this proposal. Consequently, the A1 proposal of the Economic Committee becomes unvoting. Now, please vote on the proposal from the A2 Economic Committee. This proposal extends the annex to the First Class Road Act 9, 13 and 50. Opinion positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u69	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 246. Registered 155 Members, for 129, against 16. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u70	Thank you. We are now voting on the M3 amendment by Lukáš Černohorský. With this proposal, the Member dismisses all electrical leadership from the annex to the law. The opinion of the Economic Committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u71	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 247. Registered 155 Members, for 18, against 116. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u72	Thank you and we can therefore vote on the original proposal A3 of the Economic Committee, where the Economic Committee extends the annex to the Act on the Management of 400 kV Nošovice-Vratimov-Dětmarovice. The Committee's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u73	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 248. Announced 155 MPs, for 137, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u74	Thank you. The next vote is the proposal by M4 Lukáš Černohorský. In this case, the Member dismisses all gas lines from the annex to the law. Opinion of the Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u75	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 249. Registered 155 Members, for 19, versus 112. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u76	We can now vote for the A4 Economic Committee, where, on the contrary, we are extending the annex to the High Pressure Gas pipeline Act with a diameter of DN 1000 Tvrdonice-Bezměřov. The Committee's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u77	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number 250. Registered 155 MPs, for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u78	Thank you. Now the proposal M5, again Lukáš Černohorský, which in this case removes all nuclear power plants from the annex to the law. The opinion of the Economic Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u79	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 251. Registered 155 Members, for 43, against 90. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u80	Thank you. Now, Amendment A5 to the Economic Committee. In this proposal, we introduce a new institute of service of the notice of initiation by a so-called public decree, if it was not possible to deliver to the registered address. At the same time, persons of unknown residence or unknown owners may not be appointed guardian for delivery. The opinion of the Economic Committee shall be favourable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u81	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 252 registered 155 Members, for 129, against 5. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u82	Thank you. Now the A6 - again the Economic Committee. In this proposal, we are replacing the necessary contract with members, owners of other public transport or technical infrastructure by the so-called expression needed to prepare the documents. The opinion of the Economic Committee shall be favourable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u83	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 253 registered 155 Members, for 125, against 3. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u84	Thank you. Now the A7 proposal of the Economic Committee, which increases the present rate of the real estate purchase coefficient from 1,15 to 1,5. Opinion positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u85	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 254, 155 Members registered, for 153, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u86	Thank you. Now three suggestions under the letter L Marian Jurečka. In the first instance, the Member increases the purchase price of the property in another way and defines in the first L1 the dwellings and farmsteads for the purchase for their reproductive value. The opinion of the Economic Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u87	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 255 registered by 155 Members, for 35, against 92. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u88	Thank you. That makes L2 and L3. In the design L2 Marian Jurečka raises the price to 1.8 times, but introduces another way of defining the housing and farmstead. The opinion of the Economic Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u89	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 256 registered 155 Members, for 33, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u90	Thank you. Finally, L3, where Marian Jurečka has the same construction, but an increase in price to double. Here too, the position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u91	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 257, 155 Members registered, for 35, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u92	Thank you. Now, by one vote, a series of proposals from the Economic Committee A8 to A26. This series specifies the legislative technical issue of the territorial development plan. The Ministry of Regional Development asked us to do so. As I say, it is a clarification on the original government proposal, where the emerging so-called national geoportal of spatial planning is being dealt with in this matter. The opinion of the Economic Committee shall be favourable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u93	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 258 registered 155 Members, for 131, against 4. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u94	Thank you. Now a series of amendments A27 to A34. If accepted, they will significantly help Railway Administration with the preparation of high-speed lines. It is a proposal for a much faster update of the principles of territorial development and shortened procedures for making changes to the zoning plan. A27 to A34 - positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u95	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the voting order number 259, 155 Members registered, for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u96	Thank you. Now another series of Economic Committees. A35 to A37. This series introduces mandatory maintenance of the building journal in electronic form for buildings commissioned by public investors in an over-the-limit regime. It was a proposal brought by my colleague Polanský and was dealt with positively by the economic committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u97	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 260 registered 154 Members, for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u98	Thank you. The next draft is A38. It is therefore still from the Economic Committee. This amendment introduces a new obligation for landowners to allow temporary entry and entry and temporary implementation of other activities on their land or buildings for the purpose of preparing transport structures. The opinion of the Economic Committee shall be favourable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u99	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 261, 155 Members registered, for 49, against 81. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u100	Thank you. Now A39. This amendment reduces the deferred effectiveness of the law to three months. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u101	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 262 registered 155 Members, for 133, against 18. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u102	Thank you. By doing so, we have exhausted all the amendments under letter A, including individual ropes. Now, the proposal under letter B by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, which proposes to dismiss the regulation of the school law from this amendment. Opinion of the guarantee committee disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u103	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 263, 156 Members registered, for 35, against 81. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u104	Now we're going to focus on electromobility. We will be the first to vote on Mr Petr Dolínek's proposal under letter C, which improves, speeding up decisions on the location of small charging stations. It is a so-called charging station slow, or defined exclusively by a normal charging point. If this proposal is voted on, the F2 proposal is unvoting. And on proposal C, the Economic Committee gives a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u105	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 264 registered 156 Members, for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u106	Thank you. That's an unvoting F2 proposal. We will now move on to the amendment under letter D1 of Mr Ondřej Polanský. If voted, K and K6 of Mr Martin Kupka will be unvoted. In proposal D1 Ondřej Polanský proposes to release the fiction of issuing a consent binding opinion. The opinion of the Economic Committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u107	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 265, registered by 156 Members, for 19, against 115. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u108	That makes it a voteable K. If he's voted, he's unvoting K6. We will therefore vote on the K4 proposal by Mr Martin Kupka. In this proposal, the Member changes the regulation of the fiction of a binding opinion in the construction law for buildings outside transport. And its legislative technical regulation has an ambition to increase the chances that the fictitious binding opinions would eventually stand up to a judicial review. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is not, nor has it been voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u109	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 266, registered by 156 Members, for 32, against 73. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u110	Thank you. In the absence of this proposal, the K6 proposal by Martin Kupka, which intervenes in the same issue, is a voteable proposal. In K6 Martin Kupka shortens the period or period for issuing a new binding opinion from one year to six months. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u111	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 267, registered by 156 Members, for 133, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u112	Thank you. We will now move on to the three amendments by Ondřej Polanský under D. D2. Ondřej Polanský proposes a new method of fixing the refund for the withdrawal of ownership of the property in which the owner is resident. It proposes to take into account the land care and the price of special popularity. The position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u113	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 268, 156 Members registered, for 27, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u114	Now proposal D3 by which my colleague Polanský intervenes in the decision which the office will be responsible for the decision on the location of the building at energy buildings. The original proposal states that the competent authority is where the investor made the request. The Member introduces an obligation for another superior to decide on this. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u115	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 269, registered by 156 Members, for 23, against 98. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u116	Here's the 4 proposal from Mr Polanský. In this proposal, my colleague proposes the introduction of another administrative procedure which would have taken place before the construction's own location and permit. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u117	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 270, 156 Members registered, for 23, 112. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u118	Thank you. Now, the amendment under the letter G of Mr Birke. With this proposal, the Member recommends extending the Annex to the Water Works Act Kryra, Senomaty and Šanov. If voted, proposals D5 and D6 of Ondřej Polanský are unvoted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u119	Committee opinion? [[Rapporteur: Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 271, registered by 156 Members, for 101, against 51. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u120	Thank you. D5 and D6 are therefore unvoting. Now, the amendment under E to Mrs Balcarová, which proposes to bring back public participation in administrative proceedings, regardless of whether they affect Act No. 114 about nature conservation. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u121	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 272, 156 Members registered, for 40, against 104. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u122	Thank you. Now the F1 member of the Cherry Man. The Member here inserts charging stations between exceptions § 79 para. 2 of the construction law so that they do not need a building permit or announcement, but a decision on the location of the building is sufficient. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - not voted, without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u123	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 273, 157 Members signed in, for 37, against 54. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u124	Thank you. Now, the parliamentary motion under I1. It's my parliamentary proposal. And this proposal introduces, virtually. allows authorization, new authorization for the construction of electricity production. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u125	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 274, 157 Members registered, for 102, against 20. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u126	Thank you. Now I2. It is an amendment which I intervene in the nuclear law. This proposal increases or allows a higher contribution to municipalities from a nuclear account in connection with the storage of radioactive waste. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u127	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 275, 157 Members signed in for 137, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u128	Thank you. Finally, I3, that is also my amendment. It significantly supports the construction of energy equipment and enables the Polish variant to be used also for the construction of large sources of electricity production and for the transmission energy network. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u129	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 276, 157 Members signed in for 135, versus 6. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u130	Thank you. Now the proposal under the letter J Květa Matušovská. Like my colleague Ožanová, she proposes releasing the fiction of a binding opinion from the administrative order and from the Higher Education Act. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u131	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 277, 157 Members signed in for 30, against 75. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u132	Thank you. There will now be a series of proposals under the letter k by Mr Martin Kupka. In the proposal K5 the Member puts a new legal structure into the law, so-called. the irrefutable legal presumption of non-compliance by a binding opinion in the administrative order. The position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u133	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 278, 157 Members registered, for 24, against 104. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u134	Thank you. Now the K1 proposal by Martin Kupka. In this proposal, the Member wishes to allow the placing of electronic communications on road land, on road aid land or on a medium-sized divider belt. The position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u135	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 279, 157 Members registered, for 53, versus 77. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u136	Thank you. Another is K2, where Martin Kupka proposes that cable lines placed on the road land can also be part of the road, unless they are part of another technical infrastructure. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u137	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 280, 157 Members registered, for 53, versus 78. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u138	Well, thank you. Now the K3 proposal by Martin Kupka. In this proposal, the Member introduces a different regulation of the status of survey engineer into the construction law. The position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u139	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 281, 157 Members registered, for 34, against 90. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u140	Now, the final draft from Martin Kupka's series is K7. In this proposal, the Member proposes the abolition of the binding opinion of the zoning authorities pursuant to Section 96b, which is the opinion needed to agree with the zoning plan. The Member proposes to cancel this. The position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u141	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 282, 157 Members signed in for 29, against 101. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u142	Thank you. The last two individual amendments are in front of us. In M2, Mr Černohorský proposes to delete the concept of building related to the definition of energy buildings in Section 1 of this Act. The position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u143	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 283, registered by 157 Members, for 29, against 112. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u144	Thank you. And the final proposal is under the letter N. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík releases the navigational stage of the water work Přelouč, although the pirate, so he releases it, from the annex to this law. The position of the guarantee committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-001-259.u145	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 284, 158 Members registered, for 25, against 116. The motion was not accepted. With this, we have dealt with all the amendments and will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House press 673, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 285, registered by 157 Members, for 129, against 16. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[A round of applause for members of YES and social democracy.]] Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done discussing this point. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Now, let's look at the point.
