ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructures and Electronic Communications Infrastructures, as amended, and other related laws /house print 673/5/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 673/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Michal KortyKortyš among us - aha, sorry, Senator Zdeněk Nytra, I have it marked, underlined, respectively. So, Senator, welcome to the party. And I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček speak on behalf of the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. And before I give him my word, I'll read one apology. Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková has been apologizing for the negotiations since 29. 9. to 2. 10th for business reasons. Minister, please, you have the floor. And I ask the honourable Members to remain calm. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport, together with the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Industry, is submitting a bill for discussion amending the so-called '46'. It is, as you remember, about speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure. The bill itself enters into the construction law on a relatively large scale. Partial changes are made in the administrative order of the Road Act, in the Nature Conservation Act, in the Landscape Act, in the Energy Act, in the expropriation Act and so on. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The aim of this law is to enable faster and more efficient preparation of transport, water and energy infrastructure buildings, as well as in the field of electrical communications, to set up faster authorisation processes and start implementing the necessary buildings as everyone would like. The Chamber of Deputies proposed, respectively. the bill was passed by a large majority. At the time 123 Members voted in favour, the opposition was only 16. The Senate discussed the bill, returned it to the Chamber of Deputies, with several amendments concerning in particular the extension of the definition of water infrastructure, the increase of the coefficient in purchases in the case of the owner's residence to 2,0 - just pointing out that it is currently 1.15, the House proposed 1.5, here we now have 2.0 - and the addition of the annex to the law on other roads, the extension of the water system in the D3 motorway corridor, the participation of municipalities in the infrastructure infrastructure infrastructure, the cancellation procedure, the possibility of laying new water management or sewerage without building permit or notification and the communication of information on the possibility of submitting comments on the urban development policy to municipalities is through data boxes. It is true that some of the Senate's proposals make sense. Unfortunately, as it is now conceived in a whole, it comes across a number of fundamental and large barriers from our point of view. One of the biggest we consider to be the coefficient 2,0, which was very much discussed within the House, very much discussed within the Economic Committee. It was very balanced. Not everyone agreed on that. In my opinion, the 1,5 coefficient is a compromise, and for this reason, we do not recommend that the Senate proposal be adopted. [[15.00 hours]] In short, I would just say to this factor 2.0 that, in general, the basic objectives in the field of valuation are, or have been, to reduce the property preparation of transport buildings, to avoid the purposeful acquisition of agricultural land, which would subsequently be purchased several times by the State as construction land, to take into account only the actual state and value of the purchased property, while the basic objectives in the area of acquisition of real estate rights were to encourage the owner of the land for voluntary sale by allowing him to increase the purchase price compared to the amount of the expropriation refund. As is known from the above, the purpose of the legislation in question is not and should not be to establish the right of the owners of the property to any above-standard financial performance from the State despite exceeding a fair, fair consideration for the immovable property. So in view of this, it must be noted that the purchase price at the level of the usual price, multiplied by the coefficient 1,5 which the House has agreed, is sufficiently high for these purposes from our point of view. I therefore recommend to the House and allow myself to apply for the approval of the bill as amended by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u3	Now I ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to convince you that the changes proposed by the Senate are not against the meaning and objectives of this amendment, but in some cases vice versa. There are nine amendments in total, but I will try to sum up to make sense of it. Firstly, Amendment 1, 5 and 7 - in general, these are points trying to tackle the fight against drought or floods, and accelerating approval processes in the construction of taps and sewerage. Amendment 4 complements some of the I. class roads to your Chamber of Deputies of the Supplementary List. Here it could be noted that it would be ideal to include en bloc all roads of the I. class, as is the case with motorways. And maybe just a note. It's a wonder the highways aren't part of the highways, either. Amendment 6 extends the circle of municipalities affected by rail crossing interference. This means, in our opinion, not only those on whose cadastral territory the railway crossing is situated but also those directly affected by the closure of this railway crossing should be counted among the municipalities concerned. Amendment 8 and 9 concerns the construction law and obliges the Ministry of Regional Development to inform the municipalities concerned of the proposal for a territorial development policy and the proposal for a territorial development plan through data boxes. Finally, I kept what the Minister said, and that is an increase in the coefficient of 2,0. I would like to point out that this concerns only family and housing houses which are resident under Section 80 of the Civil Code at least one of the owners. It doesn't concern any other real estate. We came from the fact that when someone lives somewhere and the state takes it away from him, it is very problematic to get new residences at existing prices, etc. My experience with real estate purchase in one 23 years of planned dam in the Moravian-Silesian Region led me to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u5	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the senator can express himself! Because the senator is already speaking in a quieter voice, so that he does not resign to his speech in the Chamber of Deputies. So I'm asking for peace of mind so he can express himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u6	It's the New Heřmins. If the state had agreed to higher real estate purchases, the dam could have been built long ago. That is why we have decided as the Senate, and it has been supported by the vast majority of the senators present, to raise the coefficient to 2.0. We don't think there's a lot of real estate. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve the amendment to Act 416 in our wording, i.e. as amended by the Senate's amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u7	Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee also want to comment on the Senate's proposals, which was the Economic Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník? Yes, you want to comment, so you have the floor before the debate is opened. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. In short, for my view of the House's rapporteur, first of all, I would like to thank my fellow senators publicly for not having intervened structurally in the law, especially in the so-called law. Polish methods, which really fundamentally change the property-legal preparation of buildings, and we consider it a really breakthrough issue, knowing that there is a lot on the edge of the constitutional right of individuals to property. We really - it is fair to repeat - we say that on motorways, roads of the 1st class, which are all bypasses of cities in the Czech Republic, and on national railways built by Railway Administration, a state investor will have the option - I call it so-called. official law or territorial access to land - start building on land, even if not yet settled, redeemed. Well, I want to thank the senators for that. Unfortunately, even my attitude towards the changes that are there is negative. From where I'm standing, it's a mix of good and not so many good things. I'm sure it's good to see increased protection against drought for the construction of new taps. In fact, the promotion of water management structures also to the list of strategic buildings with some higher priority. But unfortunately, I'm going to repeat here, which is why I will be very brief, the words of Minister Havlíček. We've really dealt with the coefficient, multiple for housing, for real estate for a long time, professionally, with numbers, with the documents on the Economic Committee. I saw this as a kind of political compromise across the political House and the opposition, where we settled on this 1.5 times. Once again, it's now 1.15, we're increasing to 1.5. And a message to my fellow senators: I don't think the definition, as it was proposed in the Senate, is good. On the contrary, she could legally engage in further confusion, disputes, and possible courts, when the definition of what a dwelling is or where someone lived, I don't know what it would look like at apartment buildings, etc., how it would be demonstrated how long someone had a permanent residence there. Maybe it wouldn't even establish equality between people in front of the law. At present, just for your information, the law says: if it is a property that is affected or redeemed. So that's where I'm a little afraid of slowing down. And what didn't come up here is one potential complication that I see in the Senate's proposals. You, colleagues, are introducing an obligation for the state, for the ministry. If territorial development policy is being discussed or changes are being made, you define for the Ministry the obligation to communicate this means of public law with national scope. We may not have noticed this proposal. But I've been thinking about it from some of my media history when I worked in public funds. In the Czech Republic we only have Czech Television and Czech Radio. And I can't imagine in real life how somewhere on television, national channels, or radio, it would appear that in some region, in some territory, there is a policy of territorial development. And the last sentence or argument I'm going to make is for the Railway Administration, which builds lines, for the future and the high-speed ones. The Senate extends the number of municipalities concerned which would involve any interference with the crossings. Since we have been dealing with rail safety all summer, as well as with the Economic Committee, the cancellation of crossings is one of the many measures where we want to increase global security, and unfortunately, the Senate's proposal here could once again complicate the possible cancellation of crossings on regional lines. And I don't think we do. So I repeat: thanks to the senators for the helpfulness to the substance of the law and our proposals, but unfortunately, I, too, as rapporteur, must give a negative opinion. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u9	I'm opening the debate. I may have a factual remark here from Mr Petr Pávek, but you must respond to something. That is, I will first give the floor to Mr Ivan Adamc, and then you will respond to the de facto as if. I know you wanted to react before, but this is how we have to do it. So, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me also to comment on the four hundred and sixty-sixth debate today, speeding up the transport infrastructure and infrastructure of line constructions in other areas. The minister here said a nice sentence, as everyone would like to see the buildings going well. The problem is, everyone doesn't want it. Let's face it. It's just reality. And those who don't want it have won for years because they've made our legal system so complicated that we haven't actually built almost anything, even if the will would be. So that's what the problems we're seeing today are. By the way, we've been discussing the Senate's return here, and I've learned that part of the senators have filed a constitutional complaint against the bill. So even here in terms of, I would say, our chambers part of one chamber does not want this law to work this way, and I must say that this is their right and must be decided by the Constitutional Court. And since the Constitutional Court has already ruled in the surrounding countries, I want to believe that our constitutional judges know what they will decide. As far as the extension of the attachment, the list, I always thought it would be less of a problem than it really was. You know how we fought here, some of us, about putting some of the buildings on the list, or taking them out. I originally had such a naive idea that the list would be realistic on what we want to build in the near future from this infrastructure, and that the list was not a dogma and that it would return to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies to edit, because this will certainly happen in the future and must happen. So that's what I'm saying is that this is the fight that's here today from the point of view of both chambers. I want to reassure the Minister that we will support both versions of the principle of caution so that at least some version can be passed, because we want to build infrastructure, infrastructure structures, but I wanted to say something completely different. I have one thing to say. Four hundred and sixty-six took place thanks to the goodwill of political club leaders, those who were interested. We went through the Martyria. Of course, in the House, it always happens if it's not strictly written from the Ministry so that those reasons don't have to happen. Here I think it's a big memento for the future, when such bills are being drafted, which fundamentally affect life here in our country, so that the preparation is more honest, and I don't want to say that it has gone any different so that it is more honest, that it is much wider, and when it comes to the House, that we do not make a tearing calendar here from the bill to the people, as they say. So that's what I was gonna say, that's one thing. The second thing we need to say here. It's just a fraction of the law we need to build line construction. It's just a fraction of the law. Let's face it. So that we don't fight in the breasts here, and we say, we've done the best we can, and now it's gonna work itself out. He won't. And I'll tell you why. Because, of course, we lack a quality building law, and here I see a bit of a problem in the gestures of the various ministries, because here, of course, different ministries and their ideas come upon each other. And I'm always saying, and I think it's best to tear up the old building bill, burn it, start building a new one on a clean table. It's a naive idea, it just won't be. We know there's an upcoming option that should come to the House. And if it comes back to 350 amendments and 150 of them will be written by the Ministry for its government MPs, that is wrong. It won't work. Let's face it, it's not gonna work. And when there's this building bill that's important to this 40-sixteen, my first question will be - will it take a shorter time than my own construction? If the building bill doesn't comply with this, let's not get the illusion that it's better. And another thing. I like the so-called Polish model, but the problem is that he doesn't really start until after the completion of the construction process. The construction process is actually going through the Road and Highway Directorate officials, or through the designated construction offices, the officials are preparing it for the ŘSD, and only when it's done, in the meantime, of course, these property settlements are running according to the four hundred and sixty-sixteenth, as well as the process is extremely clumsy, terribly long. And I think that we need to say and ask ourselves the fundamental question, whether the Road and Motorway Directorate, as set up, is the right guarantor of the zoning and construction proceedings, the evidence. Guaranteed by the files. I warned you here that in our case it took 504 days, the groundwork for the zoning decision, and I think this is a time that can be used completely differently, and it should be systemically. Because it's not the fault of one ŘSD, or that they're somewhere slower and somewhere faster. I think it's a system issue and it would be worth looking into whether ŘSD should be the guarantor of the preparation of these proceedings. And, of course, the second question is, what construction agencies should administer this procedure and put it well in life. So what I want to say is, at the end of my short performance, is that we're going to support the 400 in both forms. My personal opinion is that the House version is a little better, I have to disappoint fellow senators, but on the other hand, nothing will happen if the Senate version is approved. Nothing's gonna happen. And I'd really like my words about how to do this systemically in the future, because if we don't change it systemically, then the acceleration won't be nearly visible. It'll be a little visible, but it'll be tiny. And our republic needs acceleration, you might say, almost rocket. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u11	Mr Petr Pávek will now make a point of fact and it is the last application so far. Yes, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík from the post. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to inform you briefly that the Mayors and Independents Club will vote in favour of both versions. My short commentary on this is that the Fourteen is a model example of cooperation across the political spectrum. This has really been completely and exceptionally managed to arrange, work and enforce. I believe that the Senate's return, despite some weaknesses, such as the determination of the permanent residence, brings improvements, includes the constructions that we did not count on because we were too focused on the infrastructure, i.e. highways and railroads. I believe that these trailers really belong to those motorways, and I think that even the water lines, the water structures, at a time when drought is bent from left to right, have the right to see the light of the world, and therefore to be included in that law. So I'm just going to recap, we're going to support both versions, and we're going to do God's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u13	Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear, so far the last application. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to spoil the general enthusiasm here, but we're probably the only club in this House that doesn't share it. We simply think that this is more of an example of a failure of a state that is unable to build construction within the framework of existing legislation, typically because those organizations that build them do not work as they should. And since we are unable to solve this problem at the managerial level, at the level of management of those organizations, to deliver projects in such a state that they comply with the law and stand up to the construction authorities, then in response to the fact that this is not the government's ability to arrange, the path of such a legislative bulldozer, which overwhelms some things that should not be overwrought, such as the right to property. We think it's just on the edge. And I think it's more beyond the edge of what's adequate, and that we really need to look at the reasons for the huge delay that's taking place with these buildings. And we don't think that law solves the core of the problem, but only politicians try to simplify their lives, but it takes away citizens' rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u15	Mr Ivan Adamec will now respond to the factual remark. In the meantime, I'll read an apology. Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes on 29. 9. to 2. 10th for family reasons. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I want to say that there is no enthusiasm here. Let's face it, it's just a rarity, the way it is. On the other hand, I remember when the editor asked me why the highways didn't build in the '90s, why we didn't make the law back then, so I said when you told someone that you were gonna own it, it was almost like killing him. The time before, the expropriation evoke such resentment and such reminiscence for the future that it just couldn't. And this is really on the edge. On the other hand, if we don't proceed in a similar way, we're not really gonna build those highways, not the railroads, not the drills, not the pipes, not the long ones. Let's face it. And I agree with you that there are more laws, not just this four hundred and sixteen, that's just part of a whole group of bills that we should redo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u17	Mr Jan Birke will now make a point of fact and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u18	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Sorry to keep you, but my colleague Ferjenčík provoked me to my performance. Very briefly. Of course, I do not have such historical knowledge as my fellow mayor and, at the same time, my fellow Member Adamec from the point of view of that history, I have only ten years. And I have to say that I'm responsible for some of the buildings that are in the area of D11 anyway, because some of the buildings belong before 1989, so that we can say it here, which is, let's say, up to fifty years. On the other hand, from the very beginning, we said that the Fourteen is part of the complex laws that need to be redesigned, and one of them is just 416. And I agree that constantly just talking about it and having fun and saying that it is unconstitutional, that it is not a claim to land and ownership, is exactly what the colleague says. Just in the '90s, but not just in the '90s, ten years ago, if you say you're gonna own something, they're gonna smash your windows. Simply and well the situation is completely different today and we see the long columns. So if we want to get rid of them, this is the only way to start building something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u19	So now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will respond and will still be prepared for Mr Martin Kolorodětík's effective Kolovratník. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, briefly. But here, through this law, it will also be expropriated within private buildings. This is where the building of private owners will be built, and it will still be expropriated for them. Here is simply typically Czech undisciplinedism. It begins with the fact that any expropriation is out of the question, and it ends up expropriating itself to private owners. It's just awful from a wall to a wall. Similarly, a nuclear power plant will be added to the Line Buildings Act. That's totally crazy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u21	So now Mr Martin Kolovratník will be the last Member to speak on the facts, and Mr Jan Birke will be prepared. Your two minutes, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u22	I have to respond. And I will respond to my colleague Ferjenčík, who, like myself, is a Member of the Pardubice Region. I'll put aside the energy, private owners, etc., I know that's a consistent view of the Pirate Club, and I respect it. But I'll give you two specific questions, Mr. Colleague, two specific cases, when you're seriously accusing the managers of the ŘSD of how bad they work. So on our D35 motorway, which the entire Eastern Bohemia and the whole Republic want, are taking place on six sections of the territorial management. It's a high-level procedure. It happens that one of them dies during the trial. He's waiting for inheritance proceedings before lawyers, lawyers will take care of who's the heir. And so it's expected, it just takes time to settle the inheritance proceedings, so it's in the judicial system. And before all of this happens, maybe the time limit for the street will fall, the ŘSD must ask again. We're dealing with this law, too. We have an institute called. mass delivery. So my first question is how did the ŘSD fail in such a large number of participants in territorial proceedings, how should Mr Ferjenčík think they should do better. And the second question is on Pardubice, on the Pardubice bypass. So now we're in a dispute with a speculator, I'm going to say it this hard, which attacked an expert opinion. He has every right. The state has one expert opinion, he has the other, and he wants an independent court to decide how that opinion will end, which is better. We've been waiting for that for a year and a half. Again I do not question it, the court has the right - he has the right to appeal etc. We're just saying that the state can build the city bypass, the owner of the property is still the owner, and he can sue, he won't lose the rights. Maybe he'll judge the amount, it'll take a year, two, four, five, but the public construction will serve people and the cars won't drive downtown. So that's my second question, what is the management failure of ŘSD, that there is simply a legitimate dispute over the amount of expert opinion. I'd like to explain that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u23	So now Mr Jan Birke will speak to the de facto Member and will prepare Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u24	Thank you very much. Let's do it again. Let's do it again. I must say that if we were to proceed by the method of Mr Ferjenčík, by your means, we are not going to build anything at all. That needs to be made clear here. I'm just praying that... Well, maybe not. I wish you hadn't gone politically wrong, because if you're going to do this like this, you're not going to build a mile of freeway in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u25	Now, I'm just going to read who's in the order of the actual notes, Mr. Ambassador, you may as well go to the microphone. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Adamec and Mr Stanjura. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So here's the thing about this law, how it's presented, how we're going to vote on it today, is a package where there are things that we can agree on, and things that we just don't agree with. And for me, the red line of expropriation is for private infrastructure. I simply do not agree with that, and I will not vote in favour of the State expropriating matters for private infrastructure at its expense. That doesn't make any sense. Nor do I agree that nuclear power plants should be put into the Linen Construction Act. Nor do I agree with the fact that they are considered to be absolutely priority water structures that do not have an economically reasonable balance sheet - typically Přelouč. On the contrary, I completely agree with Mr Kolovratník that D35 is simply a fundamental construction that needs to be completed. But there's a package here, and we have to choose everything or nothing. And I say, there are such things that I can't vote for it personally. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u27	So now I'm going to read an apology. He apologizes between 15:30 and 19:00 on 29. 9. on grounds of employment, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Ivan Adamec is now preparing Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to make a point of fact. So far, I've got two applications for actual. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u28	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, well, I don't want to overexciate the thought-fight here, but I think I said it in my opening act that the constitutionality test of this bill is just gonna be. And then either the concerns that my colleague Ferjenčík has or he doesn't show up. By the way, to those private infrastructures and line constructions - here's the crucial question for whom they serve. Does it serve for private purposes or for public purposes? You need to put that down, too. A lot of the wires and the pipes aren't state anymore, we know that. So we need the pipes here to make the state work? We do. Or the wires. So I don't think it's about who it belongs to, but whether the investor is even capable of building the building. And that's the whole problem. So I just wanted to say, there's a proposal, and we're going to vote on it, and I think the constitutionality test is going to happen anyway, because it's already in the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u29	Now, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, your two minutes. So far, the final application for de facto. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. So I think it's kind of déjà vu. That the same thing we hear today from those enthusiastic supporters, we heard last year when we were discussing and approving another novel. The example, as Mr Kolovratník described here, should have been addressed by the old amendment without a problem. At the time, we were assured that this would be the case. So what happened over the last two years? We're being reassured again today. From what has come, instead of having two priorities or three, it's really a huge package, buildings that make sense and which are priority, and buildings that aren't that priority. Let's talk about it. If Mr. Birke is right, we can close the ŘSD. It's not true we can't build a mile of highway. I know Dan Took only four. But even four is so much more than zero. So let's not put such strong terms here that don't correspond to reality. I am quite skeptical because we have not yet seen any proper evaluation of the previous amendment by the Railway Administration and ŘSD. And we've been assured how great it is, how it starts to build, how it moves. Two years gone, new novel - where's our evaluation? We don't. A new hope again. I don't really share it. We will support both the Senate and the House version, as my colleague, Mr Adamec, has already said. But once again, we can say that in two years, those sitting here should actually have a proper analysis of whether or not this has led somewhere. [[15.30 hours]] I'm afraid there are strong words here that if we approve this in the House version today, they'll be building tens of kilometers in no time, they won't be real. They won't be real! And let's not hide that the biggest public investors have large reserves in their activities. And it's not due to legislation. But when we wanted the fiction of consent to binding positions, the ministers as one opposed such a simple matter as to keep the state legal terms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u31	So far, the last application, virtually. I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else is applying. No one is reporting, so I am ending the general debate - I am ending the debate and asking whether there is an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Senator? The Minister is interested. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u32	I've only been for a very short time. Thank you so much for all your comments. So at least I'll try to argue or answer two or three of them. As regards strategic infrastructure in terms of power plants, in terms of nuclear power plants, the law is about speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure. And I don't know what's more strategic than nuclear power plants, which is why they're similar to a whole range of other projects and other projects. As for the private and public infrastructure, I am leaning towards what Mr Adamec said here. What matters is what it serves, whether it is publicly used, and that is crucial. As for that year 2018, the amendment, which was then approved, was, in our view, good, and a number of things are actually practically being applied. We have given the Economic Committee a list of what works, what works better, what works worse. That means we're discussing it. It's true there's probably no revolution in two years. Here I agree that from next year, it will not suddenly happen that by simply waving a magic wand, it will immediately start to build, but what is important is that today we have resources for this, we are investing record in the construction of transport infrastructure. This year it's going to be 124 billion, 129 billion next year, and if we have resources today, we need to take every opportunity to speed up the construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u33	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. I'm asking if Mr. Senator's final word is any more. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I've still begun to call my colleagues from the lobby, and, yes, at the request of the diaper, I'll have you all checked out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And I believe that colleagues who are interested in deciding on this matter will fill the O.R. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure and Electronic Communications Infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House Press 673/5, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 673/6.' I've started voting number 245 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 245 of 169 present for 56, against 4. The motion was rejected and I note that we did not accept the bill as approved by the Senate. Therefore, we shall vote again, pursuant to Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The requiredvorum is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to House press 673/5.' I've started voting number 246 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 246 of 174 Members present for 155, against 5. The motion was accepted. [[A round of applause, in particular, for members of YES 2011.]] I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Transport and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, thank you to the Senator and finish point number one. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The next item is item 442. Excuse me? [[This is the messenger. Balcar.]] Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u34	Thank you. I just wanted to get on the record that I voted against in the 245 vote, even though I'm in favour of high school. Just like that on the record. I'm not questioning anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-001-001.u35	Yes. It'll be marked in the tape screen. Point number 442 of our program is
