ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u1	357. Government bill on one-off pensioner contribution in 2020 /German press 997/ - third reading I ask that a member of the government take his place or take his place at the rapporteur's table. Madam Secretary is present, please. So, Madam Secretary Maláčová. And the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 997/2, which was delivered on 20 October 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 997/3. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before opening the debate at third reading. That's right. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In a crisis, we are almost all vulnerable, and in particular people who are harder hit by the crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u3	I'd like everyone to stay calm in the hall. Thank you. If you have anything to do, please go to the foyer, especially near the speaker's counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u4	They are businessmen, businesses, employees of businesses that we have closed down, or because of the measures we have had to limit their activities, families with children, singles - we have helped all of them. I'm sure you'll understand that at this time, we can't give up one of the most vulnerable groups in the population, and they're retired. Still, some wonder why we want to add to the elderly, for they didn't lose anything. So let me repeat a few more facts and figures. 400,000 seniors have a pension of less than CZK 12,000, so they have to live with the amount of CZK 400 a day. The limit of income poverty for individual households is CZK 12,818. 12 818 crowns and 400,000 seniors have an old-age pension below this limit. Nearly a million seniors have a pension of under 14,000, with an average pension of 14 448 crowns, despite all the record increases in our governments. The question is, would you live with it? Every year, they add to the elderly, or our government adds beyond legal valorisation. Just so you know, in 2014, the average pension was CZK 11,000. Because this year is extremely hard for seniors as it is for all others, we have chosen an extraordinary one-time contribution. It is a compensation for inflation, which has been growing in an unprecedented way in the last 12 months and has been growing most since 2012. Some of you might argue that it's supposed to cover the valorization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u5	One more time, please, calm down. Madam Secretary has given a break so the debaters can hear you better. I don't want to name it specifically. Please, really, really calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u6	Thank you. Some of you are going to argue that this is supposed to cover the valorization. But realize that this year is different and the seniors had to buy other things beyond what they normally buy to protect themselves - drapes, disinfection, more cleaning products, vitamins and other food supplements. Anything to help them fight coronavirus. We all know that seniors are the most vulnerable group, and we all advise them that they need to protect themselves more. It's worth something. And I'm sure we all want to help seniors and seniors. Five thousand - this is the amount we want to contribute to the elderly. And by the way, $5,000 a year or $420 a month comes out one-time. This will help the seniors to have a little bit left for things that may seem equally obvious to us, but pensioners cannot afford them. We will add not only to the elderly, but to all pensioners, i.e. disabled pensioners, widows and widowers, or even orphans. As far as the one-off payment is concerned, the principle is simple. Everyone who received or applied for a pension in November shall be entitled. As such, none of the pensioners will have to apply for the allowance, it will be done automatically. The Czech Social Security Administration will automatically pay it off. The allowance will be paid one time, each pensioner will receive it only once. The entire allowance will be received by the seniors, and the executives will not reach it, so the entitlement to social benefits will not be counted and will not be subject to income tax. We will help 2.4 million elderly, more than 400,000 disabled, 24,000 widows and widows, and nearly 33,000 orphans. And if we really want to help the elderly, we need a one-time contribution to be approved and paid quickly. This proposal, which is relatively simple in its design and has been well targeted, has been met by a number of amendments, which mostly disagree with its substance, the substance of the amendment to this law. So let me briefly comment on the various amendments. Mr Bauer's amendment, this is a series of rejected attempts to change the rules of raising the percentage of pensions by CZK 1000. The proposal no longer provides for an increase in the pension requirement of 85 years, but replaces it with a condition of 25 years from the first instalment of the pension. In the future, seniors who work until retirement age would improve by a thousand later, not in 85 years, but in 90. By the age of 85, as today, only those who stop working and retire prematurely would receive a thousand crowns. So why do those who have worked longer get a thousand extra crowns later and those who, for example. they work and receive a first-degree disability pension, could they make a thousand even better by the age of 50? Moreover, the proposal is not well written. The Czech administration does not register when the pension is paid only since it was granted. On Mr Klaus' amendment under letter B, Mr Klaus tabled a proposal that goes far beyond the classic sticker. It fundamentally interferes with the Income Tax Act. This House's press has been rejected by the government, and so has the Commission for Fair Pensions. This is a proposal, a classic proposal for a tax signature. Moreover, the amendment is completely unfit for practical implementation for fundamental substantive and legal defects and cannot therefore be approved. Mrs Kovářová's amendment under letter D. This is another sticker to our proposal and concerns the amendment of the bill to the next levy, so-called. extraordinary one-off parental allowance. The proposal doesn't address helping seniors at all. But it's not that we don't want to help families with children. Our government has pushed through the infirmary, covid's extraordinary immediate assistance, and we are negotiating a major increase in child support. This should be the system aid that will help all families with children who either have a fall in standard of living or reduced income. But this bill does not belong to this law, it is technically miswritten and it is not determined when it would be or who would receive an extraordinary parental contribution, nor what the conditions for payment would be. Mr Martínek's amendment. Mr Martínek tabled an amendment under letter E to the partial increase in labour rates after entitlement to an old-age pension in the Pension Insurance Act. Nor does this proposal concern the present contribution in any way; it is a significant change which must be discussed by experts and politicians in the Commission on Fair Pensions, where unfortunately the Member has not submitted them. Moreover, this proposal would really increase the appreciation for retirement work by about a few tens of crowns, and this really does not help working seniors and does not motivate anyone else at retirement age to work. Mr Ferjenčík's amendment. Mr Ferjenčík tabled two amendments. The first does not concern the present contribution, but changes in the date of the increase. The Member proposes to pay pensions to all pensioners on the same day, on the first day of the month. But that would completely complicate the payment of hundreds of thousands of pensions. The honourable Member argues by eliminating the inequality in valorisation. However, this issue has already been addressed by several courts, the Constitutional Court for the last time, and none of the courts has found inequality and violations of fundamental rights and freedoms and has rejected the proposal to repeal the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act in question. [[9.20 hours]] Amendment to the matter, but antisocial. Amendments by two Members are tabled on the subject of a one-off contribution. Mr Jurečka's amendment under letter C. Mr Jurečka has tabled a complex of amendments. They concern the amount of the allowance, which should either be reduced by CZK 2,000 in the case of the payment of an average pension for the period from January to November 2020 exceeding the amount of 14 427 - 14 427 probably means a rich pensioner, otherwise I cannot interpret it or raise it by CZK 2,000 if the pension is also received in addition to a direct pension by widow or widower or both at the same time. And an increase in the contribution of 500 crowns per child raised. All these proposals are not feasible from the point of view of the Czech Social Security Administration due to the lack of registered data for the automated process from a time point of view and for the uncertainties in the application. For example, it is not clear on what date the entitlement to a widow's or widow's pension is to be assessed. Suggestions are unfair. If, for example, I have one crown higher pension - one crown, and we are talking about the limit of 14.427 crowns - it will decide that the contribution will be either in the amount of 5,000 crowns or in the amount of 3,000 crowns. In addition, the Czech Social Security Administration has no record of raised children in men and in a part of women in such a short period of time. For more than a million people, it would be necessary to find out whether or not he was caring for the child in question. This would fundamentally and for a long time endanger the proper functioning of the Czech administration...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u7	I beg you once again, you who have something to discuss, there are half of us here, and yet the noise level is high, go outside. You guys go set it up outside and then come back. Make it possible for the Secretary to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u8	And most importantly, seniors would have waited a very long time for a one-time allowance. This means, once again, the result would be a delay in the payment of one-off allowance to almost all. Although, for example, I understand the proposal of 500 crowns for women or those who raised children very much, and I personally promote it in the long term. Mr Ferjenčík's amendment, the latter, concerns a reduction in the amount of the surcharge to CZK 1,500. This would mean that the pensioners will receive less than CZK 29 per week. Twenty-nine crowns! At the same time, the pirát demanded that the infirmary for the tradesmen be at least 500 crowns a day. By the way, it doesn't even have an average pensioner. So did the pirát in the first wave fight for the infirmary for tens of thousands of contractors, and now they want to add 29 crowns to the seniors for a week? What makes you think that an extra 29 crowns a week is enough for pensioners and others need hundreds of crowns or thousands of crowns a day? Once again, compensatory aids, protective aids, vitamins, food supplements, disinfectants, all these prices, especially in those difficult months, have blown to the heights. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, the debate on whether the seniors deserve money or not has been heated. I'd like to say that if we split up the company, we all lose. I think solidarity in times of crisis is absolutely essential, at least that is my conviction. And I would like to point out that, through government programs and other support, we are helping all those who have been damaged in this crisis. I want to point out once again that we help companies, businessmen, employees, families with children, just everyone. But I don't understand the argument that seniors don't deserve emergency help. These are people who have worked their whole lives, built our economy, left our country in very good shape, and today, the vast majority of them will not reach the 500 a day. I think that's a shame. If you help today to approve a one-off contribution, the Senate could discuss the bill in mid-November. If the senators return this bill to us, and as I discussed with some yesterday, it is likely that we will have to act quickly. The law must be in the Collection by the end of November so that the Czech Social Security Administration can make a contribution and the seniors have money in the first half of December. That is why it is very important to approve the bill today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not the end of a one-off contribution of CZK 5,000. By the end of the parliamentary term, we would like to move a fair pension reform forward in line with the Government's programming declaration. However, it is important that legislators across the political spectrum agree on such a fundamental draft. Both the right and the left must pull together in this case and find solutions that will really help. We must help people with low incomes, those who work in demanding professions, we must appreciate care, not just the so-called financial merit, we must make our pension system more understandable and we must logically make its financial sustainability more predictable. That is why pension reform is important, and at this point it is ready from the position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u9	Thank you. Plus, there's an apology. Apologies to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec from today's meeting for health reasons. I am opening the debate on this point. First Vice-President Okamura came forward with priority rights. Before the speaker's desk comes up, I'd like to ask you -- there's really nothing stopping us from spreading out and getting separated between us. Otherwise, the reduced session is somewhat pointless when some are constantly pushing side by side. Please consider it. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long advocated increasing disability and old-age pensions. Therefore, we will, of course, support the proposal for a one-off allowance to pensioners, as the lowest pensions simply cannot be lived on. In this context, I must point out a sad government reality. Instead of agreeing a draft law from the SPD pen to enact a minimum dignified pension at the level of the poverty line, which is less than CZK 15,000 a month, and only from this amount of merit, the government is simply proposing to add a few thousand one-time. But that doesn't solve the system's miserable situation of pensioners. The solution is the SPD proposal for a minimum dignified pension, of course, on the terms of the years worked or for those who could not work due to proven invalidity. Before the election, every government is trying to flatter the elderly with some extraordinary one-time valorisation, but oddly enough, some stable dignified border is being rejected by all the government's party from the right from the left. The reason is clear. Pensioners are then dependent on valorization and are then grateful for every addition. And yet it is just a political game by politicians, because seniors should have pensions at a decent minimum level automatically. But then government politicians wouldn't be proud to be added. For the SPD movement, I repeat that disabled and old-age pensioners need to be sure of a dignified life. In short, I will repeat the SPD's view of systemic changes in pensions. Pension is not a bonus, but it is basically a social benefit for the vast majority of beneficiaries. For people who have worked for minimum years, we must guarantee a minimum pension of an amount sufficient to live a decent life. Pensions must be valued not by a percentage, but by a fixed amount. Pensions must be financed from the income of states, from its companies, for natural wealth. [[9.30 hours]] Here I would like to respond to what Minister Jana Maláčová said for ČSSD. The Minister here has admitted exactly what I have been saying for a long time, which means that 400 000 pensioners have pensions of up to CZK 12,000 per month, basically they can no longer live for the pensions, and at the same time they refuse, at the same time the government has given a negative opinion on the SPD's proposal for a minimum dignified pension at the level of poverty, which, by the way, applies in most countries of the European Union precisely because in those Western countries they realize that seniors and disabled, old-age pensioners must have some minimum decent pension that does not go below the poverty line in order to be able to live with dignity at all. Here we see exactly the hypocrisy of ČSSD and Jana Maláčová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because they prefer one-off 5,000, which we will, of course, also support, pointing out again, because better than nothing, the government would actually give those pensioners some minimum decent pension, of course, under the terms of the years worked, from this amount to merit, so it would not concern any inadaptable, the SPD proposal. Of course, in the case of disabled fellow citizens, where, of course, they could not work, so they would also be entitled. And as I'm saying, if pensioners had a dignified, stable income throughout their pensions, they would, of course, not depend on some extraordinary additions. And that's how the SPD sees it. In fact, if someone's in poverty for a long time, 5,000 won't save him one time, because there are a lot of retired people who don't even pay their rent. What is worse, in their miserable situation, even social authorities are often unable to help them with such assistance. Therefore, the SPD - precisely because of this - passed a law on the legalization of a minimum pension at the level of the poverty threshold set by the European Statistical Office, which is called Eurostat, for the Czech Republic. No one who has worked for mandatory years should live below the poverty line. That's our moral obligation to our seniors. And that goes for disabled pensioners. Likewise, no one who lives a decent and proper life should live below the poverty line. Thus, in principle, it is not necessary to raise the highest pensions so quickly, but the lowest pensions need to be systematically increased. You really can't live on those these days. On the one hand, the State will save what it would give by lawing our SPD proposal for a minimum dignified pension, on the other hand, for social aid to the poorest pensioners. And it will also save the associated bureaucracy. And the very fundamental issue that this government has ignored - the government of the ANO and ČSSD movement has been ruling for seven years now, with the support of the KSČM, before that was in the coalition with the KDU-ČSL - so what this government has neglected is the issue of the long-term sustainability and stability of our pension system, including the need to make key parametric changes. I'm talking about pension reform. The Prime Minister recently responded to an oral interview by our Member, Mr Lucie Šafránková, concerning precisely the actions of his government in relation to pension reform, that there will be virtually no pension reform. So this is the answer of this government of the ANO and CSSD movement. That is the answer of Minister Maláčová to low pensions. There's just not gonna be any pension reform. And we all know it won't be because in seven years, you couldn't prepare it. And the Prime Minister accompanied his response in the interpellation of our Member, Lucie Šafránková, with a personal criticism directed at some of the government's advisory bodies. Yes. For several months it acted within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the leadership of the ČSSD, the so-called Commission for Fair Pensions, but its spring outputs cannot be called pension reform. I think we all know that. And most importantly, the outputs were left only on paper. They have no substantive and legislative continuation. And at this time, we are clearly not going to see them accepted. The excuses for the Coronavirus will not stand up in this context. On the contrary. Since I am stressing again, the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD has already ruled for seven years and has not been able to submit pension reform in seven years. That is why pensioners have to shake each year about what pension they will actually have and how much will be increased because there is simply no systemic pension reform that would give old-age pensioners a guarantee of disability. This government has not been able to guarantee disability and old age pensioners in seven years. It's the one-time valorization, the one-time additions. Of course, we always support them, because I say again, better than nothing. But that's not the certainty. That's not the promised pension reform. So let's look at the programme statement of the government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM movement, to discuss what the Prime Minister and ČSSD together with the coalition partner and with the support of the KSČM were actually promising. I quote from the programming statement. And it says, "We want retirement reform. We want concrete steps. The essence of the pension reform will be to separate the pension account from the state budget and to establish clear financial relations between that account and the state budget and, where appropriate, other sources of income for that account. The system set up by the future pension reform must be stable, understandable and financially secured in the long term. That is why the change will be implemented in a form that will receive broad political and social support." End of quote. Those are the words and promises of this government. Today, it sounds more like a passage from some quality science fiction literature because you just didn't do it. And it's been less than a year before the election, so you won't be able to do it anymore because it can't be done legally. And now I will add what the Prime Minister, who basically wrote these sentences in a government statement he promised to citizens two or three years ago, said in the January Party of Prima. I quote the Prime Minister: "I don't know what pension reform is. I know we're going to raise pensions." End of quote. So I think everyone's gonna judge that it's not easy to know. Of course, I'm familiar with it, because if I sum up, the pension reform promised, it's not here. And because even after seven years, the government has not been able to prepare pension reform, that is, that disabled, old-age pensioners have the certainty of dignified pensions so that they don't have to shake each year about whether or not something is added to them, so basically we don't have the pension reform here, and it's basically a simple statement. So I was a little surprised that the Prime Minister said he didn't even know what pension reform was when they wrote it in their own programming statement. But key questions remain unanswered. Seven years, when the ANO and ČSSD coalition is in power, were essentially wasted in this. It is extremely unserious in relation to current but mainly to future seniors and all tax payers and compulsory insurance contributions. Each year we will be hurting because, as we know, as well as renowned economists, the National Economic Council of the Government, which is an advisory body of the government, warns us that in the medium term there will be no pension money - there will be no money for the sustainability of the pension system to say this better, because I certainly do not want to panic here. The sustainability of the pension system. And then, unfortunately, because the government has been unable to prepare pension reform for seven years, the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD, so we will reach the moment when basically how to get money for those pensions, there will be only a few options, either increasing retirement age or raising taxes, or taking migrants here to provide birth rates. And all three variants are completely unacceptable to the SPD. This means either raising taxes or increasing the retirement age or bringing migrants here. As Bohuslav Sobotka said, three years ago, on TV he said that he wanted to start the birth rate by receiving migrants. But that was about four years ago. That's about two grand a year... It was last term. And we absolutely disagree with that. So any future responsible government will have to look quickly for a broad political and social consensus over, among other things, these challenges and topics. And the SPD is ready for that. He's ready for this debate. We have a processed pension reform. The government isn't interested, and she hasn't suggested anything herself. That's the problem. So we're ready to work on it. If the government is interested, of course we will be happy to cooperate on this, because we are a constructive movement and we are quite clearly aware that pension reform is necessary so that all pensioners, disabled, old age and others have dignified pensions. [[9.40 hours]] So, as I said at the outset, of course, we support and support the proposal for a one-off allowance for SPD pensioners, because, of course, something is better than nothing for pensioners. But at the same time, I'm saying that's not the real system aid that retired people need. This would be a truly dignified regular pension. And that's what the SPD wants to do. By a one-off contribution, the government is seeking an evasive advertising manoeuvre by which the government is trying to distract pensioners from giving them a regular, stable, dignified and decent pension. And the money would be for it if the government restructured the state budget and finally crossed out billions of items that bring nothing to decent people. And I don't mean just those dozens of billions of arms contracts that the government wants to pump public tens of billions into foreign Western economies, such as German combat vehicles. Now, in a crisis where we need to support the Czech economy. So, in order for the government to cut out unnecessary spending that brings nothing to the citizens, it doesn't bring anything to decent citizens, it simply doesn't have the courage to do so. We've already suggested where you can make various cuts, you don't want to do it. I've talked about it a lot, and the laws are here, but now the result is that even pensioners don't have decent pensions, the minister herself admitted that 400 000 pensioners - she confessed correctly, which is why I point out - it has pensions below the poverty line, and you're dealing with a one-off contribution, which, of course, doesn't solve the systemic problem of low pensions. So I say again, for the SPD, of course, we support the one-off contribution and we support it, better than nothing, but our bill has been here for almost a year to enact a minimum dignified pension, and it would need to be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u11	Thank you. One de facto has been withdrawn, so we will continue in the order of how individual Members are logged into the debate. Mr Klaus is the first to be signed in, Mr Martínek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would briefly inform you of the position of the Trikolóra movement on this bill, on a one-off contribution. The situation throughout the Republic is difficult not only, of course, by health, social, atmosphere, and among other things, it is no secret, I have said it for a long time that the state budget does not exist. Now a member of the Bank Board Hampl repeated it on TV, so almost everyone says so. But even at this difficult moment, I am convinced that people should do their job, bakers to bake rolls, teachers to teach and Members to accept conceptual solutions. Conceptionist! That means long-term, not one-time screams, just before the election, pulling out some populist pieces. I think that this time that is coming is going to be very difficult, and it is very clear that we have to go back to some values that may have already been forgotten. One of them is intergenerational solidarity, because there is no secret to the state finance situation and the long-term outlook for pensions. Our amendment, as well as the bill that is postponed here, aims at tax reductions, tax reductions, and allows them to send one percent of their taxes instead of the state to their mother, father, grandfather, simply to someone who receives an old-age pension. This is our proposal. We have been discussing this for a long time yesterday, and we have decided that if the discussion of this law is not conceptual, it will not be long-term, and it will be just a kind of silent or election, we will not support this law of yours. Pensioners deserve much more than a one-time populist scream. I think that the vast majority of pensioners are now far more concerned that their children are financially at zero, they have a closed pub, they have a closed establishment, they survive, they live on savings than they do about this money. So this is our position. If our proposal is not accepted, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u13	Thank you. Mr Martínek for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to discuss the manipulation of the Minister, when he recounts his proposal to months and recounts opposition proposals for weeks. But I want to look at what the Minister has said about my amendment that it has nothing to do with the issue. I just recently spoke to a senior doctor who's already entitled to a proper pension, and now he's not getting a dime out of that $5,000. He's outnumbered, fighting in the front line. You call him - if you want the contribution that the other seniors have received, you have to retire properly, otherwise you're out of luck. This isn't normal! That's how the government shows the middle finger to these people who serve and help our front line. And these are not only doctors, they are certainly other seniors who have voluntarily decided to continue working for society. So I am trying to remedy at least a little of this incredible injustice that the government is now creating, which is to increase the rate for those who work in retirement, even in their old age, or who are reserving. I hope that everyone understands this and, at least, this minimum aid, which is within the framework of Amendment E, for which you can vote, can at least partially remedy this injustice. Otherwise, in order to be fair, for the same reason, I cannot vote in favour of Amendment A, which could also bring about the fact that some, particularly those who are reserving, seniors would not have had to wait for the increase in thousands of crowns even in 85 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u15	Thank you. Mr Bauer will be next, Mrs Aulická will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u16	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I have described here in detail the position of both my personal and the Civic Democratic Party MEP during the first reading and, in addition to the fact that regional elections have taken place since then, I have nothing to change in my personal opinion on this proposal or on the opinion that I stand for our parliamentary club. That is why I did not consider it necessary for me to say anything new here if the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs had not performed with my speech on the state of pensions in the Czech Republic. I was just writing down some of the words. Basically, in her opinion, the only right attitude and the proposal is the one she's putting forward, that is, to give 5,000 crowns to each pensioner, which is less than 3 million people, and everything else available is either unrealistic, what I have noted, unfair, misspelled, etc. And at the end of that speech on the state of the pension system within the Czech Republic, it was also said that we had to pull together because we were all on the same team. I will not repeat the arguments that I regret mostly before the regional elections, because I have not changed my mind, but I am very sorry that if this proposal passes, pensions in the Czech Republic will not increase according to the legal, discussed conditions, but according to the current needs and moods of the political parties that are currently in power, which I think is really very bad. And all the more I regret that this proposal, whether it's 5,000 crowns - I don't even know how you came up with the 5,000 crowns, why it's not 4,000 or 6,000. For this reason, before that year or two, I also argued that I don't even know how you figured out that the thousand-corona is adding to those who are over 85 years old, because I think that the same social needs are, for example, to citizens who are 83 or 84 years old. But I'm really sorry that you're with this proposal when you're calling so much for us to be on the same boat, that we have to stick together in this difficult time, why you just didn't come to us. Why didn't you come to the opposition about why you didn't come to the retirement committee? I've discussed this here many times, that you're trying to reform, you're not doing so well, but practically every year, you're making the system you want to change even more complicated by the extraordinary increases in pensions. Why didn't you go with this proposal to those experts, in my opinion, waiting for it in the pension board, and why didn't you ask them: Should we raise by 5,000? Is that good? Is that system? Or should we go the way we look at the valorization formula? - Which, by coincidence, your colleague Roman Sklenák, here in the Chamber of Deputies, changed in particular for the benefit of Czech seniors three years ago. So that's the thing I'm sorry about. For this reason too, I think that you may not even be seriously and seriously considering the entire pension committee, and that attitude of yours is really very, very strange. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u17	Thank you, too. And Mrs Aulická has the floor, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me add some information to this House press for KSČM, too, because, of course, it is crucial for the KSČM, so that our seniors will receive CZK 5,000. We are saying this because, in the long term, as we have mentioned in previous discussions, it is really unsystemically addressed how our pensioners are valued in the Czech Republic, especially the lowest pensions, pensions. We would really like the lowest pensions to have faster valorization and so-called higher averages of pensions, because the scissors are constantly opening up to us, although, of course, in the last five or six years, precisely thanks to the KSČM, the valorization is actually getting to a different level than it was eight years ago. I think that all seniors and pension collectors realize that because when I talk to them, they really feel that they are getting completely different amounts. But I just have to mention about the old people who are on so-called. the poverty threshold and very often due to the added amount of valorisation they lose, for example, the amount of the supplement or the contribution to housing from state social support, which for them significantly does not come any income or increase, because it will decline from one side, from the other side it will come and for them it is actually a zero amount. That is why KSČM has long been appealing and demanding an increase in the lowest pensions, because we think it is the most important thing. Five thousand crowns a one-time amount. We have expressed this in the past that we consider it a non-systemic measure. On the other hand, in this difficult time and in view of what I have said, we will clearly raise our hand for this, and I do not think that today some of these amendments, as they are written, would be appropriate to accept, because I cannot imagine at all, when our pensioners generally promise to receive CZK 5,000, more or less counting on it, so that we now say no, we will reduce the amount, or not all will get it yet. We don't really agree with this behind the KSČM and we perceive that all pensioners should really get it. Furthermore, I would also like to respond to those amendments that are on the table today, which we will be voting on. My colleague, Bauer, must have imagined his amendments today. We'll stick with this proposal. We see the situation here, but we must say that, in view of this proposal that we are now discussing, we really think of it as an adhesive. With my fellow Member Klaus, there we must say that it is really very badly written by legislation, and it is even said that the Czech administration pays pensions, the district Czech administration is just mediating them. Moreover, it can be said that this is indeed a sticker. We'll be disagreeable here, too. With Mr Jurečka, I must say that this proposal is indeed a discriminatory one, and in this proposed time as it is in the amendment, it is really unrealistic, and we are convinced that it would not, above all, stand up to the Constitutional Court. That's why we disagree here too. I must say with Mrs Kovářová that this is very difficult for us to decide. We are aware of the current situation of all our citizens, and here we are looking at the most necessary ones. However, we have to say that, as we discussed the amendment, we have been discussing, so we see that there would really be a better other system solution. And here I miss - and I would perhaps turn to government representatives, especially the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour - the Government's communication. I think that if there had been communication from the government and, perhaps, with Mrs Kovářová, there would have been some system proposal prepared to match the situation, but the way it is presented, we would have stayed with her. Mr Martínek will be staying with us. We must say that the Czech administration would simply fail to do so under these circumstances, and as it is written, we perceive the situation that it is not really appropriate right now. We will support Mr Ferjenčík, for Amendment 6522, when the payday is changing. We think that this is really unsystemically addressed in the long run. We have dealt with this personally over the past few years, and the injustice to some seniors is really systemic. The further amendment by Mr Ferjenčík, the reduction, will not be supported. So I guess everything for the KSČM club, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u19	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová, Mrs Valachová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you once again to support our amendment. It introduces support for the crisis period for singles and singles. It is for parents who care for careless children without their partners that the coronavirus crisis has turned out to be the most significant. Many have lost their jobs and are in a very difficult financial situation, even in debt. Similarly, the situation of young families has deteriorated. According to one survey, 20 percent of singles and singles had already arrived in the spring as a result of the crisis, a third of them had dropped their income below CZK 10,000, and half had been in debt - and that was in the spring. The second wave can bring a much worse situation. It was a huge hit for their households. After school closure they had to stay home with the children, this significantly increased their costs, and often as a result they lost their jobs. If these people get into debt traps, it'll be hard to fix, and we shouldn't let that happen. The government is preparing support for pensioners for the problems associated with the epidemic crisis, but it did not think about supporting single parents and young families. And it is they that the government should be thinking about first and foremost, because the data shows that these groups have been in trouble during the Corona crisis that threatens their security. The government was supposed to support singles and singles at a time of crisis in order to prevent these devastating consequences. However, this one-off aid could partly help them, as we propose, and above all, it would be a clear signal that we have not forgotten them. [[10.00 hours]] Not only do seniors need support. The low pensions mentioned here need to be dealt with by pension reform, i.e. systemically. But at the same time, the government is proposing to help the elderly quickly. The Minister today mentioned that he would not support our amendment and that he would seek systemic aid for single-parents, single-parents and families with children. That means he's a little conflicted. If we are looking for a system solution for pensions and at the same time support a pensioner with a sum of CZK 5,000 one-off, if the Minister says that he is planning a system solution for welfare benefits for single parents and single parents, he is not giving them one-off aid. And that's unthinkable for me. At the beginning of her speech, the Minister said today: We cannot abandon one of the most vulnerable groups in the population. And all I have to say is that single mothers and single father mothers form the second most endangered group that is at risk of poverty. That is why I do not understand that we are not thinking about this group as well. The Minister also said that solidarity is essential in the coronavirus crisis. Therefore, I beg you, not only to be solidarity with the elderly, but also to the single mothers and fathers of the singles. Thank you in advance for the possible support of our proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u21	Good morning, honourable Members. Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. We will continue the open debate with Kateřina Valachová's speech, and Mrs Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself. Before I give the floor to Mrs Valachová, I will ask the House once again for peace and possible debate to be carried to the front. Wait a minute, madam. It will certainly be possible for the situation in the House to calm down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, dear government, I have a few words. It is obvious that we support a one-off contribution to pensioners in 2020 as Social Democrats. After all, it's our government's proposal. However, I do want to respond to a few things that have been said here in the debate, especially those statements that the government of social democracy and the ANO movement in recent years has perhaps done absolutely nothing for pensioners or that it has done little and so on. So, of course, I can't leave it unnoticed, and I fundamentally reject it. I would like to remind you that it was the Social Democrats who pushed for a re-establishing that every senior and senior from 1 January should be sure, regardless of what government governs, that their pensions will increase according to the valorisation mechanism, if prices and prices of the various things that the seniors and seniors in their special consumer basket need to meet in terms of satisfying their life needs. So the valorisation mechanism, the fact that the government doesn't have to, and I point out, no, act, and every year honestly towards seniors and seniors, their pensions, if necessary, are increased by law, and it is dignified and honest, that is what social democracy has put forward. I would also like to point out that it was the joint government of the YES movement and the social democracy, which froze retirement, has broken down and does not increase retirement. I note that this was far from a matter of course in terms of political and professional discourse. And the third thing about repeated increases in pensions in recent years is our government that has proceeded to record increases and, on the contrary, in the previous decade nothing like this has happened. And finally. I'm sure we need pension reform. I think that the current Commission for Fair Pensions has come as far as this existing government has come, at least I am, and I have the opportunity to monitor this in a professional and professional perspective for more than two decades. I think that at this point, we have a reform that would be effective. But remember, colleagues, until six months ago, part of the political spectrum increased the temperature of our minimum pension, the introduction of a minimum pension costing 10 billion. Now, in July, we approved a deficit of half a trillion crowns and no one stopped. So feel the conscience of the person who prevented our pension reform from costing us. And I believe that this year we can change our approach to simply costing us a pension reform, and we can introduce it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u23	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Now, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová. Also, before I give her my word, I will ask the House again for peace! If you want to call a break, I'll, of course, announce it at the request of one of the clubs, if you have such a big discussion. Otherwise, those discussions that are not relevant to this subject, please, in principle, in the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have expressed the opinion of the TOP 09 on a one-time contribution here at previous readings. And I've come to encourage that we get pensions in the years to come. I want to support this in particular. And I think that we should in particular have pensions that will need to be paid for a year, five, ten, twenty, all of us. It is therefore necessary to treat all proposals relating to pensions with the knowledge that we should support what we have and what we can afford. And we have record debt this year, up to 500 billion crowns, and therefore the answer to whether we have it is clear. We go to debt and we do nothing for it, or this government does nothing to have a better ratio between wages, average wages and pensions. Let's remember, when the flame talk is here, whether Madam Secretary or other representatives of the government coalition, about how low pensions are, how the average pension is now higher than it was in 2014, or what comparison has been said here, but that it is still little that this government has been in power for the seventh year and has still not been able to come up with a better outlook for the future, so that we can be sure that we are not talking about a one-off contribution here, which is such a farewell party. That's why this is crucial to what we're dealing with here. I don't know if you'd need seven if it wasn't enough, seven years isn't enough, so if you need 14, 20, how long would you have to be in the government to come up with something? But I guess we can all imagine that there's been enough time. The ratio of pensions to average wage, the compensation ratio, fell below 40 percent in your governments for the first time. Those are the facts. Don't cover it with anything. These are clear comparisons from which your approach to pension solutions does not come out well. Your approach is that, in addition to valorization, something extra is added, the impression is that it actually adds the most that has ever been possible or virtually. that growth in absolute numbers is the best, great, amazing, it can be a lot of adjectives. But that's just the fact that's what's going on. I remind you that in good times, when we didn't fight the coronation crisis, when we didn't have this debt here, and when we did better, we often supported the growth of pensions. At the same time, however, we have always asked with one breath and stressed that it is necessary to prepare reform, that it is necessary not only to take into account the one always next year, but to look at the longer horizon. Because a large, vast majority of current pensioners will definitely want to take pensions in two, five years. And besides, he's gonna need a pension, so he's gonna need social care, health care, we all know that. These are all systems that we need to be able to finance. Even the materials of the ministries themselves, whether finance or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, show how the prognosis really warns how disastrous it is. By 2030, up to 45 percent of the state budget should go to pensions unless we do something about it. Today it's about a third. This is how we see the huge growth over the ten years, which, of course, is caused by several factors, and we all know that the demographic forecast is absolutely certain, clear and indisputable in this respect. That's what we're especially interested in. Not to take the money we don't have at one time, take it out of the pockets of the kids who pay for it, and add it and become better in the eyes of the people we give it to. We can become better in their eyes when we ensure that they have money in the next year, in five years, in ten years and in the next years. [[10.10 hours]] So I'm here to support not a one-time contribution, but to support the fact that this is what we're dealing with. To support pensions in all subsequent years, because I really care about pensioners, and I don't want us putting different groups of people against each other here. When it compares with helping everyone here, it helps with entrepreneurs, businessmen and other groups, it must be said that they lost their incomes first in the spring and now in the autumn, a large part of them. This means that they have been forbidden to make money, their accounts do not flow regularly every month with certainty, which is really 100%, some amount that flows in the case of pensioners. That's just the way it is. It needs to be said. And it's no big deal that we want to create the impression that all seniors are living well, but on the other hand, even the seniors themselves realize that the uncertainty in the future is so huge that it's not worth the certainty in one month this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u25	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. It is now the last one entered into the debate, Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I am glad that I have now been given the opportunity to respond to my previous speaker, through you, Mrs Adamová Pekarová, for she has only confirmed to me that you need to be calmed down, calmed down as an agent of the Government for human rights. We have created a working group at the office for the protection of fundamental human rights of older people, which has the opportunity to comment on all proposals relating to the age group of older people, 65 +. Of course, she also commented on this proposal, we discussed the issue. And I agree with the previous speaker, I am not going to name her, so as not to delay my speech, but it has happened a moment ago that a one-off contribution will certainly not solve the situation of seniors. That is why this group adopted recommendations, which, of course, also advanced to the government in which the emphasis is placed on systemic change, to better distinguish between the individual senior groups, in order to avoid unnecessary simplification and generalisation of the needs of seniors who also need better communication. So it is not true that we would not be concerned with this, or that the government would not have information available in order to avoid social isolation within the second wave, which unfortunately came, which we witnessed in the first wave, and at the same time, of course, it is stressed that it is necessary to work intensively to prepare such steps in the area of pension security, which, as Mrs Adamová Pekarová said, will strengthen certainty more than a one-off contribution. On the other hand, it is important to remember that there are many seniors here, who will be greatly helped by this one-off contribution, and at the same time it is such a small positive signal that the government has not forgotten them and goes from speech to action even in a time of great crisis. And I wouldn't underestimate this, because for a number of seniors, it's more important that someone thinks about them and that someone cares about them and cares about them, especially when it's still expressed in some financial amount than to make sure that we do everything to protect their health so that they don't die prematurely. So the combination of these different approaches, I think, in a given situation and in a time of crisis, is the only one. And I want to stand up for this, too, Madam Secretary, who is, of course, in a difficult situation here, because he defends the indefensible in quotation marks that a one-off contribution will solve everything that she has done in this situation right now, according to our conviction, what was needed. The fact that this is not enough is an obvious thing that we probably wouldn't have to discuss too much. The fact that there is a working group under the direction of someone who has, I think, an indisputable and professional authority, Mrs Veronika Bílková at the Faculty of Law in Prague, who is preparing, analyzes the needs of seniors with the emphasis on the differentiation, which precedes the phenomenon that you know under the name of Ageism, that is proof that we are paying attention to it at the government level, and that the government, if it wants, will be able to take into account and follow the recommendations of this often critical working group, whose recommendations are not easily feasible, are not cheap or populistly oriented, because they will require quite enough time and mainly patient systematic work and very good coordination at the level of various departments: health, work and social affairs, the interior, maybe in some cases it is also good to inspire those international documents, which are very well advised about what individual Member States of the European Union should do in relation to seniors and what they should avoid. I got off here because after all the discussions that I've been watching here or in the lobby, it's obvious to me that removing the issue of the 21st century's seniors would be a very bad contribution. I agree with what has been said here critically. On the contrary, it is the first swallow that should follow the next steps that the government should take by the end of the parliamentary term, and it should, of course, make even more use of its advisory bodies than it has so far. As I say, one of them is the Human Rights Council and its working group on the protection of the fundamental human rights of older people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u27	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. My ambition to end the debate was not succeeded, my colleague Ferjenčík, who is at this time the last party to the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond to two things. First of all, to the Minister's words that we want to add little to the elderly, it must be said that the pirát fully support the tens of thousands of dollars' worth of Valorisation, which is 10,000 per year for the average income, when compared with the one-off contribution, that the pirát fully supported it and contributed to it by their vote in the past on the valuation scheme. And that is why we also proposed a compromise version of a one-off contribution. I also wanted to thank my colleagues and colleagues for supporting my proposal, which corrects one injustice, by unifying the date of valorisation. This is indeed a matter where pensioners who happen to have a deadline for valorization at the end of the month lose their valorization in one month a year or in, say, 20 days. It's just a big injustice. The Slovák fixed it. And thank you very much to colleagues who have announced this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u29	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Another one has been added to the debate, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u30	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Government, Madam Members, I originally just wanted to make a point of fact, but I would be limited in time, so this is how it is. I would also like to reassure everyone: for pensions is, will and must always be. The pensions are the cost of the state budget, so please don't scare the current pensioners, don't scare future pensioners into being without pensions. If there's an ongoing pension system, those pensions just have to be paid, and those people won't stay without pensions. First of all. Secondly, I would like to ask, perhaps some other time, because we would probably open another very long debate now, but the representatives of the SPD and the representatives of the TOP 09 on what they actually imagine under the term pension reform. I've been watching it for a long time, too. And besides the fact that there were proposals to privatize the pension system, except that people were only recommended to save their own money, that's all I've heard about. So I'd really like you to define what you imagine under the term pension reform. One theme, perhaps, from our constituents. One of my e-mails gave me a theme and a calculation of how it is reflected when a retired person, who has already been granted a pension, continues to work. As the years worked, the next years will reflect on his pension. I can tell you at least. The calculation is obvious. I'm just giving it up for the retirement commission, or another, to consider how to motivate people to continue, if they can and want, to project it to them, but up to the amount of the subsequent pension, because the working pensioner basically earns his pension. I would still like to support today's proposal for this one-off contribution. There is a link to the state budget. There's money in this state budget. Even the most vulnerable, as we have discussed here, need to be shared in order to receive the support. They don't have it easy. The speech was here. The next state budget may not be that simple. So please, if at this point the money in the state budget already approved by the state budget is for this year, then let the seniors get it. I don't think anyone doubts that they deserve it. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u31	Thank you, Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. I have three factual points ahead of me, one with priority rights. Now, with Mrs Pekarová's point of fact, then colleague Kalousek, then colleague Martínek. Now, then, Mrs Peková Adamová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u32	Thank you for the floor. We've been asked. I consider it polite to answer. So through you, Mr President, to Mrs Gajdůšková. The reform you guys canceled, which is all you could do in those two parliamentary periods was built on a pillar system. You call it privatization, that's your adjective, but it's the only really bigger pension reform that's been put here in the last dozens. You've been in government more than twice as long as the government that introduced that pension reform. And besides the fact that you were able to cancel it instead of making it better, so that you could just modify the system, you didn't come up with a solution. The pension committee, in which, I dare say, there is some partial agreement further, there is one that can be talked about, but it has no chance of practically pushing anything, because the fundamental problem is that you are not able to agree with each other in the government. That is exactly the key issue that needs to be said here. And haunting. Of course, we can all put our heads in the sand, act like nothing's going to happen, and say to ourselves, well, it'll be better, we'll see, it'll work out somehow. That's one of the options, that's such a rejection of reality, and it certainly has some fans that this is going to work, but even if we accept the fact that the company will always have the money for pensions, or, respectively, it will give the money to it, then it's also fair to ask what else the money won't be, what else it won't give it to, what else society will sacrifice. Is this gonna be the welfare thing? Will it be the health care? Will it be roads or education? What'll it be? That's what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u34	Thank you for the floor. Just two comments on Mrs Gajdůšková's speech. She assured us there was money in the state budget. Let me just say there's no money in the state budget for that. The government has requested an increase of 137 billion in expenditure from the Chamber of Deputies in the last amendment to the fight against the cod epidemic. The 15 billion we're voting on now for a one-time allowance to seniors, please, have nothing to do with the fight against the covid epidemic. It's just an election move and a one-time bribe. It's not involved in the fight against coronavirus, and it's the money we borrow. That's not the money we have at our disposal. Secondly, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková has called on us to give our idea of pension reform. We have said it many times, and I will be happy to repeat it to you, my colleague, and I will fully respect that you do not like it. I fully respect that. However, when a Member of the Government, who has had six years of pension reform as its first priority in the programming declaration, has not presented anything, nor the idea to this day, it is a great courage to say: we have not yet been able to say a single word, even though we have promised you that for six years, but the opposition, you submit your version. This is not the way the world runs between the opposition and the government, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Tomáš Martínek, then Mrs Gajdůšková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank Mrs Gajdůšková, through the President, for the words on support for working seniors, because that is, of course, necessary, and that is precisely what my amendment under the letter E addresses, so I hope that social democracy, at least Mrs Gajdůškovášková, will vote for him, because that is exactly what the support for working seniors is saying, at least symbolic, so that we show that we really mean it, and those who voluntarily choose to help society, are at least to receive some reward if we do not want to give them even the sluggish - or do not want to give you or the sluggish, because it simply does not apply to them when they respirate. So I will be happy to have Mrs Gajdůškovášková's support here for Amendment E that social democracy will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u37	I thank Mr Martínek, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková now. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u38	Yes, thank you for your word. Hurry up. The reform of the TOP 09 pen, or the right-wing government then, the second pension pillar meant nothing more than that a person should have saved himself in a private fund and in 30 years he didn't get anything at all. That's how it ran in Slovakia. It cost the Slovák billions more to abolish this system, because it basically meant taking apart the ongoing pillar. Who cares and wants to care, finds it, finds specific numbers. And that we haven't done any reform, Social Democrats? Well, we're not saying, we're not talking about reforms, but we're trying to make those pensions dignified. We're working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact by Mr Václav Klaus. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u40	Hello. I do not want to delay it, but through you to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Here to turn the debate to some prehistoric second pillar, some TOP 09 fight with the ČSSD, it's a disguise of the state that instead of conceptual solutions, worries about retirement pensions and pension systems, you have only presented a one-time election of CZK 5,000. That's the point. And going back 30 years into history is just a distraction. But let's vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. There is no more factual comment, but Mr. Vice-President of the KSČM Leo Luzar Club reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I hate to prolong this meeting, but before the final vote, I would like to ask for ten minutes' recess for the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u43	Before or before the final vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u44	Before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u45	Before the vote. Okay. So 10 minutes. I'll meet you here at 10:40. I'm declaring a recess for the KSČM club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue after the break for the meeting of the KSČM. Please take your seats. Before we proceed to the vote on the procedure first... I'd like to keep a one-time allowance to seniors on the board, press 997. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, Vice-President of KSČM Hana Aulická Jírovcová volunteered for the floor. Madam Vice-President, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say the final position of the Members' Club after its consultation. I must say, of course, this is a difficult situation. In any case, the opinion of the MP, particularly on the amendment by Mr Ferjenčík, who is just trying to change the injustice, when at a certain date of payment of the pension there is only eleven times a year, the KSČM has pointed to this injustice in the long term. It's not a new fact at all. And we must say that the previous governments did not respond at all to this situation and to this great injustice against some pensioners. That is why the KSČM will vote in favour of this amendment today. Because we can't imagine that even with the parameters that are there, and above all delaying the effectiveness of one year, and we perceive, of course, that it will be a big deal for the Czech Social Security Administration, and we can't imagine that we will continue to suffer really the discrepancy and the injustice towards some of our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u48	Thank you. We will therefore continue now, and this will be introduced by the rapporteur to the voting procedure, to the various amendments and will certainly comment on the proposals, as will the Minister. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 62nd meeting of 21 October on the Government Bill on One-time Contributions, House press 997. The Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, as a guarantee committee after discussion of the draft law after second reading, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law under House press 997/2 in the following order: First, the proposals for legislative technical amendments under Section 95 (1). 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. As the second amendment under letter B, if adopted, the other amendments are non-voting. As Amendment A third, C3, if this is adopted, amendments C1 and C2 are unvoted. Another vote would be C1, C2, C4, C5, then letter D. Another amendment under E. Further, F 6522 and F 6524. And the last thing to do is vote on the bill as a whole. Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the third reading of the bill. Fourthly, she instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I would just like to point out that before each vote, I will briefly tell you what we will be voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u50	Thank you, rapporteur. But if I followed the debate correctly, no legislative technical was presented at third reading. So without that point, right? Does anyone have an amendment to the procedure? It's not like that. We will take decisions on the procedure in the vote 192. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 192, there are 101 Members present, for 99, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We can therefore start with individual amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Since no legislative technical amendments have been tabled, we will vote on the amendment under letter B. It is a proposal by Mr Václav Klaus, who proposes a voluntary opportunity to contribute to the retirement of a loved one. At the same time, it proposes that the contribution paid be deducted in the form of a signature from personal income taxes. This means that it would be a deductible item from the taxpayer's tax. The amount of voluntary contribution to a loved one is proposed to set a maximum of 1 per cent of the taxpayer's gross wage. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u52	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. We will decide in the vote number 193. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 193, Member 101, for 31, against 12. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u53	We will now vote on Mr Bauer's amendment under letter A, which proposes an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, where it is proposed that the pension be increased by a thousand crowns per month by the pensioner in whom (?) 25 years have elapsed since the first instalment of the pension paid to the consumer. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u54	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 194. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 194, 100 Members present, for 41, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u55	Thank you. Next, we will vote C3, which is Mr Marian Jurečka's amendment, which proposes that the amount of one-off contribution be reduced by two thousand to those beneficiaries who have a pension of more than CZK 14,427, while proposing to increase their one-off contribution by two thousand to those who are also beneficiaries of a survivor' pension. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u56	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 195, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 195. Of the 100 Members present for 33, against 18. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u57	Next we will vote C1, which is also the proposal of Mr Marián Jurečka. And he proposes that the amount of one-off allowance be reduced by two thousand to those beneficiaries who have a pension of more than CZK 14,427. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u58	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 196 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 196. Out of 100 present for 33, versus 20. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u59	Next, we will vote C2, also Mr Marian Jurečka, and this amendment proposes that the contribution be increased by CZK 2,000 if the pensioner is also a survivor of the survivor's pension. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u60	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 197 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 197 of the present 100 for 32, against 5. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u61	Next, we will vote C4, also a Member of Marian Jurečka, where a five thousand-dollar contribution of CZK 500 is proposed for each child raised by the pensioner during his life. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u62	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 198 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 198, 100 were present, for 31 Members, against 4. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u63	Next is C5, this is Mr Marian Jurečka, where the deadline for payment can be determined if it is not possible to decide before the deadline for payment by 31. 12. 2021. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u64	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 199. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 199, 100 were present, for 33, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u65	The next proposal is under the letter D by Mrs Věra Kovářová, where it is proposed that the single-parent or single-child caregiver receive a contribution of CZK 6,000 one-time, and the same parent who receives parental allowance. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u66	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 200, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 200 of the present 100 for 46, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u67	We will now vote on the amendment under letter E, it is Mr Tomáš Martínek, who proposes to increase the percentage of the pension base for workers entitled to old-age pensions and not receiving a pension from 1,5 % to 1.6 basis, for workers receiving half of the old-age pension from 1.5 to 1.6 and for workers receiving the entire old-age pension from 0.4 to 0,6 basis. Opinion of the Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u68	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 201. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 201 of the present 100 for 45, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u69	The next proposal is under letter F, 6522, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who proposes that pensions be revised from 1 January of the calendar year in question, with effect from 2022. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u70	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 202 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 202 of the present 100 for 51 Members, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion. [[The rapporteur isn't responding.]] Madam rapporteur, another proposal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u71	It's just that I'm arguing here if they don't want a vote check.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u72	Okay, I'll see if anyone checks the electronic record of the vote. [[Short break in the meeting.]] Well, thank you, we'll continue. Longer proposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u73	Thank you. We will also vote on the amendment under letter F by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, 6524.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u74	Calm down, please! It is the last amendment. If anyone wants a break at the club meeting, let the club presidents tell me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u75	6524 where an exceptional pensioner's contribution in 2020 is proposed to change from CZK 5,000 to CZK 1,500 for each pensioner. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u76	Madam Secretary? Madam Secretary, position! [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 203. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 203 of the present 100 for 36, against 19, the proposal was not accepted. That was the last amendment. The chairman of the club of the ANO movement requested five minutes before the final vote. Have we exhausted all the amendments, rapporteur? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u77	Yes, we did. It's just because I heard the noise from the right part where I took the liberty of saying if there was going to be a vote check. I know it's not my place, I'm sorry, Mr President should have said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u78	Thank you. I'm declaring a five-minute recess for an ANO meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue. Please take your seats and... take your seats. I understand that the situation is tense, but I would ask everyone to take their seats according to the seating order and allow the hearing to continue. Member Helena Válková has signed up for an electronic record of the outcome of the vote. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, believe me, I am sorry, but unfortunately I wanted to abstain from the vote, I think it was 202. This concerns the amendment under the number 6522 of Mr Ferjenčík, where pension valorisation has been proposed since 1 January of the relevant calendar year, with effect from 2022. I wanted to stay, but I voted in favour. I'm sorry, and I'm sorry. [[The President: So... A Member of the War returns to the microphone and continues:]] I question the vote. I almost forgot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u81	Okay. About Mrs. Helena Válková's proposal... I can no longer say a word in the debate to anyone but one with priority rights. My colleague here... I don't see the club president. [[Noise and nervousness in the room.]] Quiet, please. Mrs Helena Válková has proposed that we vote that the vote is different from her will, and that is what we will decide in the vote number two hundred and four. Before I run it, with priority rights, there's a Vice-President of the Pirates Club. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u82	Mr President, I listened quite carefully. The MP said she voted in favour, but she wanted to stay. However, it was not that the voting device did not work, so in this case there is no question of voting, that would be contrary to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u83	I understand my colleague, Mr Černohorský, but every time a Member or Members did not say so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and asked the House to vote, they were granted. They were granted a vote. I, who will never vote for it, think he can say it like that. Mrs Pekarová, a colleague of Bartošek, also applied with priority rights. I'll give them my word because they have priority rights. But before I give you my word, Madam President, I will ask the House once again for peace. [[Mrs Pekar: Thank you.]] No, you don't have the floor yet. I ask my colleagues to take their seats and let those to whom the word has been given express themselves. It doesn't mean that if someone has spoken out, they'll be here to disturb the people they've been given the word to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u84	Thank you for the floor. I believe that the wording chosen by the Member was not at all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so that we could vote on its objection. So I don't think it's possible to justify my request to challenge the vote by saying, "I voted in favour, but I wanted to vote against or abstain." That's what I'm saying, "I made a mistake myself," but it's not like my voting device might have broken down in any way. So in this case, I don't think we can vote on her objection at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u85	A kolega of Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u86	Mr Vice-President, I am speaking to you by means of you. Let's be fair. Yes, Members have the right to be wrong about the vote, but you know very well that if an objection is raised, we have always insisted that it be presented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I do not doubt that Mrs Válková may have been wrong, but an apology such as "Jarda, I'm sorry, I was mistaken" is not really in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That is, let this objection be made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and then let us vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u87	Okay. I will ask my colleague Válková to raise the objection correctly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If she succeeds, we will proceed accordingly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll try to make it work. So I object to the vote that I spoke about earlier, when the voting device showed me that I voted in favour, but I abstained, so I question this vote. And I ask you to vote now on this objection to questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u89	Okay, thank you. Vice-President of ODS, Jana Černochová. [[There's a loud discussion going on in the hall again.]] I'll also give you my word when it's quiet here, Madam Vice-President. I think it would be a good idea to maintain the dignity of the negotiations even in this tense situation, so I ask colleagues and colleagues to bring discussions that are not related to this point into the foyer. I understand that we have just before the final vote on the law as a whole, but I still have to insist that there be a dignified environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am very sorry, but even for the second time what Mrs Válková said here does not meet the requirements of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic or its accompanying resolutions, because if something like this happens to a Member of Parliament, she is to raise this objection immediately. And here came the fact that there was a meeting of an ANO MP who apparently got down on a Válková Member and convinced her to do what she was doing here. It shows that it does not do so out of its own conviction. I think that, indeed, in this Chamber of Deputies, we have always respected the fact that we voted immediately, even if the urgency was that the previous speaker had agreed, another club chairman also gave an opinion. [[screaming noise]] All of this can be tolerated. But not what you're doing here now, colleagues and colleagues. This really is a very dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u91	If someone else said that, I'd probably keep my mouth shut. But I can't keep quiet. But since I can't talk right now, I'd have to take my place. I'll give the floor to Helena Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u92	Okay. It is obvious that today I will become the subject of various invectives against my will, or whether Mrs Černochová wanted to hear by you, Mr Vice-President, that I abstained from voting, even though I am stoned, that I voted in favour, I can do so in this very formal way. I think that I have said this correctly in my first statement and that I do not have to repeat precisely the wording according to the Rules of Procedure, if I have expressed them otherwise in terms of content as I wanted to express them. But I do because I honor certain traditions that are here in this House. I just want to turn against being attributed to something that I can count on myself, but no one else, I think, should do it for me. Thank you. And I apologize for delaying you by pointing out that my will was actually expressed differently than I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u93	Thank you. I took over the meeting for a moment because Vice-President Vojtěch Filip wishes to speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u94	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, you see, I do not like the Pharisee. And I said here once before, so I'll do it again. I represented the Chamber of Deputies as Vice-President at the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic when the ODS proposed a change of vote after 14 days on a specific proposal in the Commercial Code. After 14 days! There is a document for this in the various speeches of Members. I got so beat up by the Constitutional Judges for the entire Chamber of Deputies that I remember it to this day. Also, notice that whenever there is a vote to challenge, I do not vote for it unless I do, and now I do not remember, or I prefer not to appoint a particular Member who has watered the voting device with lemonade, otherwise I do not really vote for it, because I do not want to experience it for a second time. And that's where we explained what it was immediately. Because you have no one in front of you, if you don't have an open computer and you don't watch the vote, and you can only check it after you have printed the electronic record of the vote result, so it is immediately taken that when you check it, that's why the President, and I always do it - I asked when the rapporteur here clearly asked if... because it was about one vote or exactly the voice that made the decision. And that's why I've been patient. And when no one checked in, I just had to vote on the last amendment. Well, if this isn't immediate, it's immediate. Even according to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court. And please all those who want to manipulate it to go there next time at a Constitutional Court meeting and listen to it, because that then calls into question the dignity of the Chamber of Deputies. That's the kind of game you're playing! And I'd like us not to repeat them. In my opinion, it is much simpler, more transparent, to realize that it can happen to anyone. That either the voting device fails, that's what happened to us several times. We also had to shut down the voting machine for an hour and carry out a full check. It's happened before. Or that somebody's voting and has a different outcome. You really need to check that electronic entry, and do that question when it doesn't agree with your will. Then we will be spared these debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u95	So, rapporteur, I'll just hand over the proceedings and we can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u96	We therefore have a vote before us on the objection of Mrs Helena Válková. We will decide in the vote number 204. Who agrees with the opposition to the outcome of the vote? I've started voting 204. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 204 out of 100 present for 59, against 35. The motion was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote on Amendment 11, which is House document 6522. But before that, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club. Madam rapporteur, please. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u97	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the ČSSD MEP's club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u98	Okay. So I'll meet you at 11:00... [[Reactions from the right side of the hall that cannot be taken during the vote.]] Actually, I can't now. That's right. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's true. It's true. According to the House of Deputies' resolution, this is not possible during the vote when we vote. Separated those things are. So, at this point, we will be voting on the amendment, which the rapporteur will repeat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u99	Thank you. So, once again, we will be voting on Amendment F, House document 6522 by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who proposes that pensions be revised from 1 January of the relevant calendar, with effect from 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-001-357.u100	Thank you. I checked you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. Since I have called on the debating Members to leave the O.R. and to discuss in the lobby, I have yet to engage. And once the numbers are settled, we will decide in the vote number two hundred and five on this amendment. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 205 of the present 100 for 54, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] This has exhausted all the amendments. Isn't that right? [[Newsletter: Yes, it is.]] We can vote on the proposal as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on a one-off pensioner contribution in 2020, according to House press 997, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I've started voting 206, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, the number of 100 Members present for 68, against 3. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, thank you to the rapporteur, Jana Pastuchová, and I finish point 357. [[11.20 hours]] The next item is:
