ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-009-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 61/2000 Sb., on maritime navigation, as amended /house print 589/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor. And please be more calm in the hall. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-009-039.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a transposition proposal which regulates the conditions for maritime navigation. The fundamental point is that it complies with the requirements of Directive 2018/131 of the European Union with a view to improving and optimising the existing system of protection for seafarers in the event of their abandonment. There is an addition to the existing legal obligation of the operator of the maritime vessel to have insurance concluded throughout its operation. So basically, it's kind of a look at the protection of those who work on those ships, about insurance to cover the wages owed and other financial performance resulting from the basic employment relationship. It is also insurance to cover the costs of ensuring the needs of seafarers necessary for survival on board a sea vessel. To make some adjustments, or to make it more clear. I was getting to know it, as you know, relatively quickly. This marine vessel means that there may be two types. Either it's a shipping merchant ship, and I'll just say here, there's none here, which doesn't involve most of us. However, there are sea yachts here, these are the ones from 2.5 m to 25 m, and so there is some part of what I'm saying here now will concern us. But in principle, it's just a transposition directive. Following this regulation, there is also a designation of the maritime office, which is therefore At the same time, the Ministry of Transport, as an administrative body, enables the Maritime Authority to entrust the so-called classification society with a public contract to carry out inspections and to issue, validate and extend the validity of the inventory certificate. That's exactly what doesn't concern us, because, as I've already suggested, there are no such ships here. The draft law then specifies the already carried out transposition on ship's equipment and repealing Council Directive 96. However, the proposal, apart from the implementations, also has a non-EU part. This is the case that the Union legislation is, to a large extent, subject to changes which are wholly irrelevant (?), required by the needs of application practice. It is therefore proposed, for example, to explicitly exclude the possibility of operating nuclear-powered ships under the national flag of the Czech Republic, to specify the requirement for the occupation of a maritime vessel operator and to explicitly anchor this requirement as a condition for the registration of a maritime vessel in the maritime register of the Czech Republic. In addition, the upper limit of the age of the ship is established, where it will not be possible in certain cases to register the ship in the maritime register of the Czech Republic. Announcement of the option of the Maritime Authority to draw for the purpose of driving a maritime yacht management licence, digitised photographs and signatures of applicants for the issue of that licence. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-009-039.u3	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Feranec, to take the floor. And please have an O.R. more quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-009-039.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I merely briefly comment on what the Minister said, just a recap. This is therefore a transposition, but there are some things outside of the transposition issues that required application practice. This is a sea cruise, although we do not have the sea, we have about 10,000 yachts that sail under the Czech flag. And there is a seed bead, as the Minister mentioned, that it will not be possible for a nuclear-powered ship to sail under the Czech flag in the future, which I don't think will happen to us. Since this is quite a problem-free issue, in addition, there is a transposition period, so I would like to put forward a proposal to shorten the deadline for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-009-039.u5	Thank you. I've noticed the proposal. And so I am now opening up a debate in which I have no applications, so I will look around to see if anyone is reporting to the general debate. If this is not the case, I am once again ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. There have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time, but we will nevertheless vote on the commandments of committees for discussion. I've already called my colleagues back to the O.R. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If that is not the case, I shall initiate the vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 150, 145 Members and Members are registered, for 125, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered the proposal to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? It's not like that. However, there has still been a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days to 30 days, so we will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the time limit. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 151, 145 Members and Members are registered, for 84, against 5. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that we've cut the deadline for the hearing. This concludes the discussion of this press on this point. I finish this point and thank the appellant and the rapporteur. The next point is paragraph 46, which also belongs to Minister Benešová, who is excused, so she moves to the end of the block of first reading, as well as point 47 and point 49 are moving to the end of the block of first reading for the absence of the Minister as plaintiff. And we're getting to point 52, which I'm opening. This is about
