ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u1	254. Government information on the situation at the border of Greece and Turkey I will ask that the Government representative, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, take the floor first after the agreement. With the replacement card number 25, Mr Michálek votes. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly inform you of the current situation at the Greek-Turkish border and of the measures taken by the Czech Republic, or of what I am riding on the extraordinary Council of Interior Ministers, which is taking place this afternoon in Brussels. As far as the current situation is concerned, the Turkish President again publicly stated on Monday that he had already opened up the Turkish border to millions of migrants to Europe. The reason it states is that Turkey cannot cope with the migration wave from Idlíb and that the European Union has not fulfilled its promises to help Turkey. This report, of course, has been causing migration movements to the Turkish land border with Greece since last week. According to our estimates, there are about 10 to 15 thousand migrants near the border, but according to our knowledge they are not migrants from Syria, because the Turkish-Syrian border is still closed, and if we are to talk about nationality or nationality, they are nationals of Iran, Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan, or other states, but these four are the most represented. As I said, these are not migrants from Syria, because the Syrian-Turkish border is still closed. It has even happened that Turkish national television TRT has published in its broadcast recommended routes for migrants to Western Europe. The reaction came immediately from Greece and Bulgaria. Both prime ministers have said that they will not allow any disruption to the European Union's external borders and have strengthened border control. During the weekend there were and still are attempts to break the Turkish-Greece land border, however thanks to the intervention of the Greek police and army did not happen. The State Security Council took place in Greece. They have taken measures to strengthen border control, to stop receiving asylum applications for one month, and to implement immediate returns to Turkey. At the same time, they requested assistance within the framework of the European mechanisms, that is, Frontex and, where appropriate, Article 78 (2) of the Treaty. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Greece has received very strong support from both the leaders of the European Union, be it the President of the Council, the President of the Commission and others. Europe's leading statesmen have expressed themselves. As I said, on Wednesday, that means today, there will be a Council of Interior Ministers and a Council of Foreign Ministers on Friday. Turkey is further increasing pressure on Greece. What we can do and what we do. We have expressed our full political support to Greece, and I believe that this will also be one of the conclusions of the Council of Interior Ministers, because we believe that only strong support from Greece will allow us not to repeat the migration crisis of 2015. We offered immediate financial assistance to the Greek side. Within the framework of the Ministry of Interior's on-site assistance programme, we have allocated funds of EUR 1 million, which were immediately offered to Greece. We've offered more expert help. We currently have 18 police officers in Greece under Frontex, and we are ready to offer another 20 as part of the activation of Frontex's rapid response units. We responded to the request for humanitarian aid by agreeing on the material that the Greek party needs and is willing to take over. The material will be removed from the supplies of the Fire Rescue Corps, and if everything goes as it should, he would have gone to Greece by the end of the week. These are steps that we can take immediately, and we are doing them. The same applies, of course, to Bulgaria, although it is not under such pressure as Greece, but it is also necessary to express political support for Bulgaria, and from my point of view it is not possible to forget other states, especially North Macedonia, because it is also under pressure, although, say, secondary, because it is the pressure from Greece to North Macedonia, but we are also helping there. Last year Macedonia also received support from our budget of EUR 1 million, which should go to the fight against smugglers. On my part, the Czech Republic is doing its best not to repeat the 2015 migration crisis. The only solution that is possible is that we can protect the European Union's external borders. I am also convinced by the reaction of the Greek side that the Greek side takes this matter absolutely seriously, is ready to deploy all the forces and resources needed, and individual Member States should be prepared to help, depending on the Greek requirements. For the Czech Republic, I say that we help and are ready to help even in the future. I do not want to get ahead of the debate, but I would like to thank the lady for consulting me or for showing me the motion for a resolution. So if the motion for a resolution is read in this way, I think it will be a very strong political signal for the Czech Chamber of Deputies, both against Greece and Turkey and against our partners within the European Union, so I support the motion for a resolution, as it is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u3	Thank you. I shall ask the plaintiff of this point, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have agreed that I would represent the Ondráček and that he would be in the role of rapporteur, if possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u5	Yes, it's possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u6	You would have agreed to everything, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u7	I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u8	I'm very happy, and I appreciate it. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to discuss a fundamental topic that affects the security of our citizens. Although it might seem that this matter is not our concern, it is a matter which, of course, concerns us immediately. We do not need to feel the consequences of what is happening at the external border of Schengen today or in a week's time, but to ignore the security threat that this migration certainly is, and the situation at the borders of Greece and Turkey would be very unreasonable, and I am therefore glad that my fellow Members have given us the opportunity to adopt today some resolution that could really help Minister Hamáček, who is also having the negotiations today within the European Union. So the government must not wait and step on the ground, act and seek solutions, especially today, when we are facing not only another wave of migration, but at the same time the whole world is dealing with coronavirus. More than five years have passed since the outbreak of the migration crisis. Unfortunately, much has not changed in the area of external border protection. Yes, Frontex has the capacity to monitor migration flows and detect border crossings or help with administration, but it is unfortunately completely incompetent. [[9.20 hours]] The former European Commission has made an absurd effort to enforce unacceptable quotas. We do not yet know exactly what to expect from the new European Commission, but there is certainly no time to waste. I'm sure we can agree, co-workers, colleagues...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to remain calm in the hall, or if you have anything to do with it, go to the lobby and do not disturb the performers. I repeat once again for those who can't hear me even when I tell them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can certainly agree that the protection of the Schengen area and the duration and observance of the Dublin agreements are an essential stepping stone for negotiations. Not senseless quotas, for which we have wasted a lot of time instead of finding a consensus on resolving the migration crisis. We should and want to hear from the government on how it will proceed and give it a strong mandate to address the matter and initiate new negotiations on how to create effective measures to protect the external borders of the Schengen area, which will lead to the management of illegal migration to the countries of the European Union...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, you're disturbing Mrs Černochová in her performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u12	In 2016, the ODS warned Erdogan about concluding a potentially blackmail agreement with the President of Turkey. In fact, the Chamber of Deputies approved the motion for a resolution proposed by the Civil Democratic Party, which rejected the agreement of the Presidents of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, which, inter alia, concerned the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016. There is really no doubt about the potential to blackmail a Member State of the European Union with an agreement today. Turkey is quite openly accompanying migrants to the border with Greece, thereby destabilizing and threatening the entire European Union. And how much does the government, but also the whole of the European Union, devote energy to preventive measures to the protection of the external borders of Schengen and to consistent compliance with the Dublin agreements? A lot. I'll leave the assessment to each of you. I take it for granted that the Czech Republic offers humanitarian aid, that it offers technical assistance, that it offers financial assistance, but perhaps also personnel assistance. That is also the part of the resolution, as mentioned here by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Hamáček. I am in favour of any help where necessary, but we all know that any aid to humanitarian, human resources or even technical will not solve the problem. No help is merely a self-saving solution, but it must therefore be part of a comprehensive strategy, which includes negotiation and dialogue, because we cannot live from day to day and deal with things only as they come. We need to give it some kind of clear conceptual framework. I firmly believe, colleagues, that we will find a consensus here across the political clubs and give our government a clear mandate. I will now allow you to read the motion for a resolution on which I worked with my colleagues yesterday in the afternoon, and just now in the morning we have completed some of the texts here, so that you will all hear what we will propose at the end of this debate, so I will allow you to read it now: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies [[1.]] Condemns the violation of the agreement by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan concluded on 18 March 2016 between the leaders of the Member States of the European Union and Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutogl, who allowed illegal migrants from the Greek islands to return to Turkey with effect from 20 March 2016. 2. It supports the efforts of the Government of the Czech Republic to offer humanitarian, personnel, financial and technical assistance to countries to which the initial migration wave is heading. 3. It declares that security is to be one of the most important priorities of the European Union and therefore welcomes the proposal to increase funds to protect the external borders of the European Union, and calls on the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to support this proposal on the point of defence and security in negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. 4. It considers compliance with the Dublin agreements essential for the management of the migration crisis in the European Union and rejects their non-compliance. 5. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to proactively ensure the needs of countries affected by the migration crisis and to propose an adequate and effective form of assistance to these affected regions. 6. It appeals to the Government of the Czech Republic to actively ensure the urgent needs of countries affected by the migration crisis so that it can respond without delay and send members of the Police of the Czech Republic to a position to mitigate the impact and manage this emergency situation. 7. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to initiate new negotiations on how to create functional measures to protect the external borders of the Schengen area, which will lead to the management of illegal migration to the countries of the European Union. 8. He shall instruct the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to present this resolution to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Parliament and other representatives of the institutions of the European Union and the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u13	Thank you, too. I'm opening the debate. With priority rights - no one has yet stepped forward, but President Fiala is reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u14	Thank you. It'll be a short technical remark. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond to this at the outset. What Mrs Černochová has read to us here through the President has been happening for ten years in the European Union, and for ten years in the European Union she has been looking for a solution to save some migration. It is called from the doorman of the European Parliament to the President of the European Commission and a European solution is sought. So if you'd like to approve, here's what's been read here, but it won't do any good, it won't have any meaning. That's what we've been doing here for x years. After all, it is clear that the European Union supports the migration, that it issues cards charged with money to immigrants. I mean, there's a record of all this. So you can challenge who you really want, but this is not the solution. If we do not support Greece in its efforts, we will not give them full support, we will not approve of helping Czech police officers or the Czech army to help the Greek Republic, so nothing will change. These are just empty declarations that have been made here a million times and will not lead to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u15	Thank you. A debate was opened where Mr Ondráček was first signed up. For Mrs Langšádlová, who will be with the facts, she can respond only to the first performance. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to take the liberty, before we start the debate completely, so that we can merge the two points that concern this problem into the general debate, that is, if you would be prepared to open paragraph 253 and do the joint debate on both points together, as I asked for the introduction of this meeting, so that it makes sense that we do not have that point 253 hanging here, because it is one and the same thing. So I suggest we merge the debate after opening the second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-001-254.u17	Ambassador, I'm always ready. So I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on further action to interrupt this point, open paragraph 253 and merge the debate on these points. For those coming into the hall - we will vote on the merger of the debate on paragraphs 254 and 253, which will prevent the interruption of paragraph 254 and the opening of paragraph 253. I think the number in the room is sufficient. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 26, 154 Members are logged in. For 115, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I'm interrupting paragraph 254 at the moment. Opening point number
