ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 301/2000 Coll., on matrices, name and surname and on the amendment of some related laws, as amended, Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 593/ - first reading I will ask that, in addition to the Minister who is ready, Mr Adam Kalous, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, instead of Mrs Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová, take his place at the rapporteur's table, and that is not voted on at first reading. Just ask him to take his seat at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček to introduce Act No. 301/2000 Coll., on matrices, name and surname and to amend some related laws, as amended, Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House's Press 593. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u2	Thank you. Allow me to introduce a government bill that amends, above all, the law on matrices and some other laws. These are primarily the Civil Code, but thus also the Act on Administrative Fees, the Act on Verification and the Act on Special Proceedings of the Courts. The amendment to the Act on Matrics is submitted in response to knowledge from the practice of mathematics. We propose to specify, for example, the location of a matrimony event, the identity of the registry office, the inspection of a collection of documents or a copy of a matrimony book, the issue of identifying and changing names, e.g. in the case of adoption or identification of the place of conclusion of a registered partnership. As part of the preparation for the electronicisation of the matrix agenda, it is proposed that data format and data structure be unified, based on the matrix authorities in electronic form. It is now proposed to transfer from the court to the authorities of mathematics jurisdiction to accept a statement concerning the surname of the adoption. The content of the amendment to the Civil Code is the extension of the rights of persons in the field of parenthood and name changes and surnames, in particular the extension of the rights of children affected by the changes. Furthermore, in relation to the determination of paternity, it is proposed to allow the consent declaration to exclude the presumption of paternity that the husband bears in mind when determining the paternity of another man who is a biological father. These changes are also followed by the amendment of the other three mentioned laws, including related changes in administrative fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Adam Kalous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has already said, the press has brought about a number of changes. Its declared objective is to eliminate shortcomings and uncertainties that have emerged from the real needs of matriculation practice and which cause complications for the workers of the authorities or the citizens themselves. Although citizens do not come into contact with the register every day, it is an agenda that affects each and every one of us. I would therefore like to point out or draw attention to the three most important proposals for change. The first is to allow a consent statement before the matriculation office to determine the paternity of a man other than who he is or who he was. I would like to mention the following figures. More than 24,000 marriages are divorced each year, one of the highest numbers in Europe. The share of children born outside of marriage is almost 50 percent. The fact that a married woman is born a child whose biological father is not her husband is not anything special nowadays. The aim of the proposed amendment is therefore to enable as soon as possible and as far as possible to achieve at least the least burdensome for all the legal parenting involved, on the one hand, and biological and social parenting on the other. The second change I would like to draw attention to is § 82a, which concerns the production financing of the registers. Within the State Budget, the Ministry of Interior has since this year implemented partial funding of the transferred performance of the state administration on the basis of a statistically recorded number of basic matriculation acts such as: birth, wedding or death. In addition to the basic matrices events, it is another numerous and relatively laborious act of paternity determination. This less visible activity of the authorities must also be adequately financially assessed on the basis of its frequency as part of the contribution granted to the exercise of the delegated powers. However, data are needed for this, and since data for the area of parenting are currently not available, it is proposed to treat the system of transmission by legislative means. The third, last amendment I would like to draw attention to is the proposed specification of the method of keeping matriculation records by means of computer technology, where the content of that specification should be the determination of a specific data format in which data would be electronically kept, respectively. to which the reported data could be converted. The uniform structure of these data, which is laid down in the implementing legislation, is the pre-accession of a fully functional electronic register which the Ministry of Interior is currently preparing. This amendment point has been postponed for one year compared to others so that the matrices can prepare for changes in their electronic matrix systems. Finally, I would like to say that the bill was discussed in the commentary procedure, and the government was presented with a contradiction with the Human Rights Commissioner. She demanded the abolition of the obligation to deviate from a woman's last name. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on 1 July 2020, with the exception of provisions specifically related to the preparation for eMatrics, when the effectiveness is proposed only on 1 July 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u5	Thank you. However, before I open the debate, I merely note that we did not agree at the beginning of this point by voting to change the rapporteur, which we must do at first reading. So I've called in MPs who aren't in the room. The rapporteur proposed has already informed us about this press, but in order to make the Rules of Procedure satisfactory, I ask you to vote in favour of Mr Adam Kalous as the rapporteur for Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Initiating vote. Who's in? We are voting on a change in the rapporteur. Who's against it? Voting number 73, 141 Members voted in favour of 107, against no one, the proposal was adopted and Mr Kalous is the rapporteur for first reading. I am now opening a general debate. Mr Ondřej Profant is entered into the general debate, and Mrs Válková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u6	Dear Members, I wish you a good afternoon again. The Matrix Act has been very late in its day. There are many things that are appropriate to repair. I'm going to put out three, which I would definitely like to deal with at second reading, and I'm going to ask you to support me in reading third, possibly. on quality discussion on committees. Firstly, we want every woman to have freedom of choice, whether or not a deranged endgame is to be used in her surname. In many cases there are very objective reasons for this, typically extensive contact with foreign countries, etc., where it can cause problems, or a big problem can be, if you are born abroad, so in the native number may be the boys end up with a deranged surname because they don't know the deviation, etc. It's completely pointless if you're moving around in today's globalized world. Even the current legal state forces women to lie, because, yes, perversion can be rejected, but only for a list of legal reasons and there not every objective reason fits. Secondly, we would like to simplify and deburcratize wedding ceremonies in small towns or small towns, because it is not possible there today without the presence of a registrar or a registrar, which is different from church ceremonies, and given that these municipalities do not have their registrar, it is a problem and it is actually denied them this authority. We think it's completely unnecessary. If it can be done by the Church, it can certainly be done by our authorities. [[17.10 hours]] Thirdly, we want to look at the unparalleled practice of approving less frequent first names by individual matrices, because today it is de facto monopoly, expert opinions are required on everything, even for example quite common names, and they are burdened with those parents who are trying to name a child. In doing so, it would be enough for the Ministry of the Interior to publish first-name data, so that the registers can see what first names are already given. Here's the problem, too, that it's changing the region from the region to the registry, so actually people have different rights in different corners of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Adamec will take a real note. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I am, therefore, a little bit pondering the second point, and these are matters of weddings in small municipalities. So I don't know how any of you know the issue, but I think the performance of the matrices or the matrices is the performance of the state administration, which means it's simply the exercise of state authority. And the village, if it doesn't have them, only carries out self-government. The mayor is just self-employed, and the math teacher is needed there, because she represents the state in the civil union that's taking place there, so I'd like us to realize that. I understand that opinion, I understand that, but on the other hand, let's not make it out of what people say, I'm gonna piss, it's just the performance of the state administration, and that's just what it's given. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u9	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Profant, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u10	I can agree with you in legal arguments, but it doesn't change the fact that the practice is that in some half of the cases there may not be a registrar, it's the churches, and in half the cases it does. If we're entrusting it, there's an act that's being carried out by the deputies, so I don't see the problem. If these people are competent to approve decrees and run a community, they might as well be trained to fill out one paper, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u11	Mr Adamec will respond to a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, let's be clear about this. The church marriage has rules that simply apply the same way as the civil marriage. They can marry and pay as well as the civil marriage, but the civil marriage, it's not the wedding merryness and that some mayor just thinks he's gonna marry someone he knows in the village. This is a legal act that sanctifies the state. I don't think he's really going over this train. I understand what you're saying, but we have to move in the field of law, and I think it's pretty clear here. The Church simply has the right to marry at the same level as civil marriages, but the civil marriages sanctify the state and make them de facto the state. The government, the mayor, or those authorized representatives of the village, only talks like an extra, because the legal act is being done by the registrar or the registrar who is present at the wedding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u13	Mr Profant, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u14	All these marriages are governed by the law of the Czech Republic quite clearly and are consecrated by the state and it is purely up to the state to decide to delegate this power.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u15	Thank you. It is Mrs Helena Válková's turn in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u16	Hello. I, my dear colleagues, wanted to talk about something else, but only at the outset I would like to point out that these status things are, of course, regulated by many laws, especially by the Civil Code, and it is not really just one paper that someone outside the Registry would have learned to fill, but by an executive, and actually by the exercise of public authority in this respect on the most important things we can imagine, or marriages, divorces, etc. What the registrar then takes into account, or even in the case of marriage ceremonies, is exercising such power. So I wouldn't agree with Mr Profant there. This will be one of the other reasons why I will propose that this press be dealt with by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, in order to ensure all the continuity. There's only one thing I want to point out here. We discussed the medialized deviation as part of the commentary procedure. At the time, the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček, assured me, when I withdraw as an agent of the government, who actually came forward with this - we basically joined here with a colleague, Mr Profant, the proposal that we should include in this the possibility that a woman might have her last name in a male form to avoid the embarrassing circumvention of the law, as is currently making those who want to be named Beneš and not Benešová, so she declares for several months that they have a Hungarian nationality, and that goes wrong, which is, of course, wrong, because it is circumvention of the law, so we discussed this amendment and expressed it publicly by the Minister of the Interior. I have retreated to give way to this law, and there is no major contradiction in the discussion of the government, and now, of course, I am merely reminding you of that, so the amendment in question here is ready. I've also heard the opinions here that public opinion research has shown that about half the population doesn't want this change. So I would be careful, because if I was doing such a small survey, very much depends on whether it is a younger woman who is very often interested in it, or someone who lives under his last name Benešová, Válková, Nováčková, maybe thirty-forty years satisfied and will not be able to do so now, even if he was thirty or twenty-five years old and married, she would want to have the shape unsurpassed. So I draw attention to this amendment, which we have already prepared, which we have been consulted, and if it passes and we approve this amendment at first reading, we will, of course, read it and expect you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u17	Thank you. That was the last application for a debate. Mr Ivan Adamec is still reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I am interested in this, so I am still reporting for the debate. I'm sorry, my colleague Juránek told me that without the mayor's signature or the minister's signature, I couldn't do it either. That's just to clarify -- but the registry is really the state's will. It's just for refills. But I want to ask you something else. I read in the materials when I read it, that this bill did not pass the classic Government Legislative Council, that there is only an opinion from the President. I wonder why this didn't go through a classic process to get the entire Government Legislative Council to say it, because - I didn't read it in detail, but I'm mostly interested in funding, because I always say that the devil is hiding in detail, and there is a new methodology for calculating the remuneration for the service, and then I'll be very careful about that. That's why I'm wondering why this didn't go through the classic legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u19	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is applying to the debate. I'm done with the conversation. There's an interest in the final word. Minister - please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u20	Thank you. Very briefly on what my colleague Adamec said. Well, I admit I don't have the information. I quickly consulted with the Minister of Justice and the President of the Government's Legislative Council, and we agreed that the only possible reason we could come up with is that we were in a hurry. But I'll check it out, and I'll give you complete information by the second reading. Otherwise, of course, when the amendments are tabled, I will communicate the position of the Ministry of the Interior. However, what I said to the government is that I would give the choice for myself to women whether they want to or do not want to deviate from their last name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u21	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. There was no motion to refer back or reject the proposal, so we will deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? He doesn't. So we will proceed to the vote. I think we're ready for the vote. Initiating vote on the designation of the Guarantee Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 143 Members registered, for 114, against no one. I note that the proposal submitted has been directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, however, a proposal was made in the debate by Mrs Válková. I ask that she repeat it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u22	Thank you. I suggest we take another look at this in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. We've got a lot going on here, but this is really about things that might be connected to, like, the Civil Code. That's why I suggest it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-008-025.u23	Thank you. I ask if any of the Members and Members of Parliament are proposing another committee to deal with the proposal. I don't see such a suggestion. So we will vote on bringing this proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 143 Members signed in, for 70, against 1. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that this proposal will only be addressed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. There was no proposal in the debate to adjust the deadline, so I am ending the first reading. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We will proceed to discuss item 26. It's about
