ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u1	21. Members of Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities (executive order), as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended /German press 986/ - second reading The motion put forward shall be made by Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Government, allow me to present for the petitioners, namely myself and Patrik Nacher, for our political parties, social democracy and the ANO movement, a bill to introduce a protected account from 1 January 2021. At the same time, I would like to start by thanking the petitioner for the long-term support of the Pirate Party, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, as well as the SPD from the point of view of establishing the protected account from 1 January and precisely this parliamentary proposal. We are pleased that our proposal has received the approval of the Government and, above all, the Ministry of Justice, and I would also like to thank you very much for the long-term efforts of the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the protected account receives the broadest possible support. I presented it in more detail at first reading, but I think I will repeat the basic principles for us as a translator once more. The important thing is that we do not have protected accounts in the Czech Republic at this time. That is why something is happening that is essentially not possible in other countries. And, in fact, according to legal rules, it is not possible for us either, but it has been happening for a long time. The point is that if you pay your debts properly, and of course we want honest debts to be paid, so if you pay your debts properly, you go to work, so what's left over from the wage cuts, from the salary, belongs to you as a debtor and to your family for a living. That's the law. However, it happens that it is in the bank account, because so-called money does not know its colour or quality, that the money, although it belongs to the debtor and his family, is established and established by the law, is built and subsequently sent to the bailiff. It is clear that this is a situation that is totally unacceptable, especially in times of economic crisis, when people get into various problems with payments, with debts, to a greater extent. This was the case in 2010 and 2012, when it was this practice that led to a large debt of people who had not yet recovered from it. And the reason why we have speeded up the negotiations with our MPs here in the House, colleagues and colleagues, was simply that we do not want this to happen again, and we wish that from 1 January people should be sure that the protected accounts will ensure that they do not be removed by the executor of what does not belong to the executor and never belonged to the executor, but it belonged to the debtor's income and family's livelihood. It seems fair to us, it seems fair to us. As far as the protected account is concerned, it would work so that, for the future from 1 January onwards, the paid salary, but also the pension would be protected, because, of course, a number of pensioners are paying payments at this time or will pay debts in view of the deterioration of the economic situation. But it would also protect what cannot be affected by the execution, and unfortunately there are illegal executions, such as child allowance or housing allowance. Here, you can also understand that it is not normal if the state supports families through child support so that the child does not see a crown of it. This makes the country's economic situation worse. It is also not normal that if, in terms of housing support for the broad middle class at the moment, we actually have only one tool, and this is a housing contribution, so that this money, which the state administers, is very difficult to send to the family, in the end not only the family, but also the landlord did not see a crown from the given money and again this ended irreversibly where it does not, through an unjustified execution in a completely different place. It's all supposed to be prevented by a protected account. [[9.50 hours]] For a protected account it is also important to say in particular from the point of view of why we are trying to negotiate quickly that this bill for us as a petitioner really had a preventive character, that is, it is aimed at people who are not in execution at the moment. That means they're targeting people who aren't in execution at the moment. However, at this time, as a result of the economic crisis, we have hundreds of thousands of employees who have been paying 60% wages for more than half a year. We have over 300,000 households that, according to central bank data, have requested a deferral of mortgage loans. We have, and we had that before this economic crisis, 30% of the employees - the employees are 4.5 million - who have already been subject to execution here before our economic crisis. This is a huge number of people who are at risk again at this very moment, as they were in 2010-2012, and we owe it to them to make sure that protected accounts really exist in our country. The other group, which is very important to us, are people who already have an execution, who have already met with the fact that they have an account, and maybe they have it built up so far. They cannot use it and choose other means of payment, which, of course, significantly burden our employers in particular. These are therefore cash payments and various changes that employers are very complaining about. There is also a large group of people here, and it also helps our proposal because it enables a quick, secure account to be set up. The third group, no less significant, and we did not want to forget it either, is a group of people who are in debt traps for the long term, very often outside, say, the regular labour market, have no bank account, but of course we are interested in returning to this cash-free payment, to have normal working conditions, and to allow their employers in employer-employed relationships to use protected accounts so that what belongs to employees really remains and serves to pay their livelihoods. Even for this group, according to our best knowledge and conscience, it brings a protected account, as we have presented it, great advantages and a great shift from the current state. We are also pleased that we have received strong support for these changes from employees' representatives and employers. This is very important, because it is the employees and employers that most often call for protected accounts so that we have proper relationships between employees and employers so that people can have jobs, make money, and have no fear that what really belongs to them as wages and salaries will also remain on their accounts. I believe that we also have the support of the Minister of Industry in this regard, because of course it is appropriate for employee-employer relations to be really about what they have to be about, in short, for the work done is paid and paid and must end up in the pocket of the employee. [[Noise in the hall.]] For the last time, I would like to mention what can and will undoubtedly be discussed in the second reading. A protected account and to really protect the amounts I mentioned, that is, the wage deducted -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u3	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. I'm gonna interrupt you because there's a noise that you can't hear your own words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u4	- housing contributions, nutritious, so it is absolutely necessary that the start of the protected account also be linked to the fact that we do not only have an account called protected, but that from this point on, also the protected amounts, which between the individual accounts transfers of the Czech Social Security Administration, the Office of Labour, Employers, the Bank and finally the debtor are taking place. And that completely fills our proposal. It protects the amounts from the moment the protected account is created and does what is fair, that is, ensures fair repayment of debts, but also prevents debt slavery. And that's what we think is something we owe at least one decade. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support these proposals so that the protected account can protect those who deserve it as quickly as possible. For the introduction, this brief summary from my side is sufficient and, of course, I will respond to any possible questions or discussions that will be open at this second reading, and I am only calling for this cooperation, and I am very pleased that, in cooperation with my fellow Member, Helena Válková, who is also a Government Human Rights Commissioner, and in cooperation with Marie Benešová, Minister of Justice, we have also prepared an amendment which even more intensively and above protects child support, and I think this is also a great achievement that further tightens the existing protection of maintenance and extends it to the maximum possible extent. So I also thank you in this regard and look forward to a debate that will undoubtedly be relevant, in order to protect people and their salaries and wages in the current economic crisis, so that they really do not fear earning them, going to work and fighting to support their family and business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u5	Thank you. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies and Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u6	Madam, honourable Members, Mr President, I must comment on the vote number 151. When I looked at the voting record, I found out I had a vote for it, but I voted against it. I'm not questioning the vote, but I'm asking you to correct it in the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u7	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 986/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Marek Výborný, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, dear colleagues, fellow Members, we have a House press of 986 in front of us. The proposal was submitted on 31 August, followed by the Government's opinion on 22 September, on 7 October, the first reading took place here at the House of Deputies. Originally proposed negotiations under Section 90 were vetoed by ODS and TOP 09 and subsequently the House's press was ordered to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. There has also been a reduction in the discussion of the deadline, justifiedly, right to 10 days, which is why we can deal with the House press 986, protected account, at second reading at this meeting today. As rapporteur, I will now fulfil the obligation to inform you of the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee of the 70th meeting which took place on 21 October 2020. The resolution, ladies and gentlemen, is: Following the justification of Mr Kateřina Valachová's proposal group, Mr Marek Výborný's report, and after the constitutionally-legal committee debate, I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal; II. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt these amendments and supplements on this proposal - these are two legislative technical amendments which have been proposed in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, and the Constitutional Legal Committee has supported these legislative technical amendments and supplements; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; IV. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this draft law at the meeting on the constitutionally legal committee; Finally, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, i.e. me, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. These have already been proposed and discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee and have been approved in accordance with the applicants. I would also like to inform that, on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee, we have dealt with the amendments tabled twice - even if I am not mistaken. None of the amendments recommended a constitutionally-legal committee. So much about the news report, and I will then express myself in both general and detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u9	I thank you and, at this moment, open a general debate in which I have signed up with the priority right of Minister Benešová. Please, you have the floor... Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u10	Thank you. Mr President, gentlemen and ladies of Members, in relation to this material, the Ministry of Justice finds it very necessary and supports this proposal fully and we have tried to work with the Members present Mr Nacher and Mrs Valachová on it. We fully support him. As regards the parliamentary proposals, they were then dealt with by the constitutionally-legal committee on 20 and 21 October 2020, when it found that it did not recommend approval. I also agree with this, and we have applied our reservations to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. These reservations have been incorporated and, in essence, the result is that we agree with this proposal and with the reservations which have been incorporated, we have dealt with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u11	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. I thank the Minister of Justice, Marie Benešová, and we will continue with the detailed debate. I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister of Health Roman Prymula apologizes from the morning meeting within 12 hours. Now, then, in an open debate, Mr Marek the Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Government, fellow Members, I am now speaking not in the position of rapporteur, but in the position of Member. First of all, I would like to thank both the petitioners, Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher, because the subject - finally, Mrs Valachová, spoke quite thoroughly about it here - is essential and important. We have already discussed the need for the creation, establishment of a protected account institute in a very detailed manner during the discussion of the House of Press 545, the Enforcement Order and the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, because it was originally to be part of the discussion of this press. Finally, paradoxically, it was the COVID-19 pandemic that caused the institute of the protected account to be removed from the House's 545 press and discussed in this accelerated procedure by shortening the deadlines so that the effectiveness of the measures would be as soon as possible. We're really going to have to deal with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic here. Completely new social groups are at risk, typically middle class. These are people who couldn't imagine before a year ago that they might have problems paying off their liabilities, and now, as a result of the impact of the revenue loss, they suddenly get into secondary insolvency. And of course, the problems are likely to increase. Therefore, I believe that the institute of a protected account, which prevents unauthorised execution, de facto extortion of the account, is beneficial to debtors. But be careful, and this is important, if we accept the really good form of a protected account, it will be easier for employers, but it will also have a great benefit for the state - for one simple reason. What is the objective of the state? I mean, getting people in trouble, in debt traps, out of the gray zone, get them into standard socio-economic relationships. And if we can do this, the state will, of course, receive taxes, etc., etc. And those people aren't gonna be running around in quotes, the whole system, which is disadvantageous for them. The question is then the amount of the pension, etc., we could continue. You know, in a situation where we're dealing with a protected account, with execution or debt, we're always looking for a balance, and we're looking for a solution that's practically feasible, with which all the actors to whom the instrument of the protected account touches will identify. Very often I mentioned it here when we were discussing an amendment to the insolvency law two years ago. We can't see this thing in black and white. Of course, we must perceive the need to help the debtor so that the amount of non-recoverable income, and then those other protected income, such as maintenance, is actually protected. On the other hand, we must also perceive that the system is feasible in practice, as simple as possible. And in this case, the banks were another major actor. That is why we have dealt with the Czech Banking Association, because if we are here to adopt beautifully such solutions that banks will then not carry out or block it in any way, we will not help anything at all. I know that these meetings were held at the level of the petitioners Patrik Nacher and Kateřina Valachová. I believe that we will be able to create a form here, a version of a protected account that will respect all those actors, including executors, by the way, because, of course, they must be included in this too. I have already taken the liberty of presenting on the constitutionally-legal committee, and there has been a rather excited, perhaps sometimes unnecessary, debate on the amendment, which I also propose here at second reading today. It is an amendment which I, along with other fellow Members - Dominik Feri, Jan Chvojka and Tomáš Kohoutk. By the way, it's proof that we're not really playing the opposition here, the coalition, but we're trying to cross-cuttingly find a solution that, from our point of view, will be as sensible as possible. The amendment is not - is not - opposed to the original proposal by Mr Valachová and Mr Nacher. We are trying to find an improvement in the regime so that it is actually applicable in practice so that some things that were not there were not, so that they would get there. I have now noted the comment of the petitioner on maintenance. That's right. That's what we've been pointing out. And in our amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate, we have also worked on this issue, because at this point, the matter is not being addressed. We haven't forgotten. Even the translators didn't forget it. She's in the press 545. However, he is a great question mark when we will be able to negotiate the press here in the House. That's why it's good to put a protected account in this institute. So, in fact, our amendment brings a few changes, adjustments, and I, along with other translators, am convinced that for the better. This means explicitly allowing maintenance to be received for underage children in a protected account. It also includes other revenues outside the scheme § 299 OSŘ - typically income under § 317, housing allowance and others. There is also a division of responsibility. That means the executor will no longer find out how high the amount came from a legitimate counter-account, but whether money from an unauthorized payer came into the account. Thus, the debtor will not have to recalculate, for example, the wages that have occurred, as we have ever been blamed, but to see if he has received any money from unauthorized accounts. In fact, even after the negotiations of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we have submitted our amendment to a debate with the Ministry of Justice. I must say that for me repeatedly, this is not just a matter of press 986, the helpfulness of the Ministry of Justice, their workers, is a demonstration of how communication between the Chamber of Deputies and the Government and the Ministry should be conducted. Thank you very much for that, because I know this job isn't easy. And then within relatively crazy time limits, when the reduced time limits are here in the House, we're dealing with these things. Workers of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Deputy Franěk and his entire team have been very helpful in this. So thank you very much for that. In addition to what I have mentioned, our amendment comes with simplification, and I also consider this to be very crucial, which we have already presented on the constitutionally-legal committee, with the establishment of, by simplifying the establishment of a protected account. The proposal we are discussing here is that the debtor must ask the employer or another payer to issue a certificate for the court, i.e. for the executor. Then he goes to the bailiff's office with the receipt. He'll issue an announcement for the bank. The court shall send the notification to the bank, the debtor shall receive a copy, request the bank to establish a protected account. It is, of course, a way to arrive at a protected account, but from our point of view it is unnecessarily lengthy. And that's why we propose a much simpler procedure. The debtor simply asks the bank to set up a protected account, proves that it is in execution, and the bank will, in simple terms, comply with it. He will have to make an honest statement there that he does not have any other protected accounts or that his protected account has not been cancelled in the last six months, because these are obstacles that would lead to the Institute's not being set up. This is another element of balancing, which we consider very important. [[10.10 hours]] We also simplify sending payments. Sending payments, that's what I've mentioned here. And, of course, we cannot resign to control mechanisms, and therefore we are introducing a mechanism against mandatory, or against those debtors, that prevents abuse of the protected account. The executor will have access to the protected account statement. If it is considered that a payment has been made to the account which contradicts the conditions laid down by the law, then it follows not immediate cancellation, but follows the mandatory call and the mandatory one within one month, thirty days, it has the possibility to express itself or to implement it in cooperation with the enforcer of the remedy. If that doesn't happen, then the payment will be confiscated. In case the payment is extreme, i.e. more than three times the minimum of life, so it can also be cancelled directly by a court decision. So these are the basic parameters of the amendment, which is under number 6576 in the system, which I will sign up for in detail in the debate. Again, it is not in dispute with the original proposal, from our point of view it is an improvement. That is why, in the end, we have worked with all the actors to prepare the amendment, we have consulted its wording with the bailouts, the Czech Banking Association, but also with the organisations that work with the debtors today and daily, and they know what the mechanism looks like, as well as the behaviour of the debtors. Here too, I would like to thank all the actors, including the representatives of Man in distress, for their cooperation. Thank you for familiarising yourself with the amendment after reading it, and thank you for your support at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u13	I thank Mr Výborný for his speech, and before Mr Lukáš Kolářík takes the floor, the rapporteur Kateřina Valachová made a factual comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u14	For the petitioner, Mr President, just a brief factual point. The proposal, which has the government's approval, expects the debtor to come to the bank, says "set me an account" - that's about it, doesn't prove anything. And in a situation where he has a built-in account, he says not to the payers, but in one single place, a court or an executor, "Protect me" and a court or an executor, he has all the data, he communicates with the payers I've read here. Then there's one piece of paper that the court or the bailiff will send to the bank. That's all. I don't think there's anything easier to come up with so that they're really protected sums. It's a factual remark with respect to the foreman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Lukáš Kolářík will now prepare Mrs Gajdůšková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, dear colleagues. Allow me, too, to briefly comment on this press and to present amendments that I will add to the system for myself. The protected account is, in our opinion, a very important tool, basically solves what has been happening here for many years, and it is a big paradox, because in the Czech Republic, an unforgivable amount is actually imposable, so it is definitely an instrument that protects debtors, so that what really belongs to them, that it belongs to them and doesn't spin a unnecessary further spiral of debt, because if we take away the last little that is left of them, then, of course, it forces them to raise money in another way, by other loans, loans from the family, or in some illegal way, which no one wants. So, as a paradox removal, it's great. We think it should be here a long time ago, we have it on the agenda for this parliamentary term, so we will definitely support it. However, once again, we're dealing with some consequence of something, we're not dealing with the cause. We wouldn't have had to deal with this if there wasn't such a wild market for the executions, and the bailiffs weren't forced to touch and confiscate the unforgivable minimum. That's why we think that the solution to the local jurisdiction of the executors, because if one executor were to deal with only one debtor, he would know that he's pulling the money from his wages, and that's why what he's getting into his account is an unforgivable minimum, and he wouldn't try to executor the rest, and that would solve the whole thing. That's why I'm saying that local jurisdiction is an important tool that, together with a protected account, would solve the situation perfectly, so there wouldn't be room for any circumvention. Another thing that appeared during the discussion of this proposal was that we, as Members and the public, have a very bad access to data. It's because the data is run by the executive chamber, and when you ask for it, there's some delay, you don't have the data right away, you can't build an analyst in real time, and that makes it harder to process those proposals and prepare those amendments, because you don't have the data in the form in which it would be good. That is why I will also read the second amendment, so-called open data, colleagues certainly know, because I have the same proposal read in print 545, which, after yesterday's article I read in Diary N, has a pretty uncertain future, which is why I'm loading the open data here into the proposal, I think it's very connected because the basic management rule says if you want to manage something, you have to measure it. And if you don't have the data to measure it, it's wrong. This proposal is that the executor's chamber would actually be required to publish certain data in real time. These are anonymous data, i.e. some aggregated data to know how much we cost as the Czech Republic, how many debtors we have, how much they owe, who they owe, and who they owe, and we had some basic analytical tool to prepare our proposals. So let me get this straight. I will load two amendments, the first one is the local jurisdiction of executors, which I think addresses the situation much better than the protected account, but we do support a protected account like the pirát, and so-called. open data, i.e. In order for the state, the executor chamber to publish data in the form of open data, so that any other analyst can be built over it. Thank you for supporting these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u17	I thank Mr Lukáš Kolářík, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, gentlemen, I will be very short. I just want to underline the fact that a protected account is very, very important. You know, debt traps and unauthorized executions are really a plague. And I could tell long, long stories, long stories, long stories, where reason didn't understand how things worked. And unfortunately, it's not just about the poorest. In our country, for example. in the Zlín Region, where we are still relatively well, where the debt is not as high as elsewhere and people simply have encoded that debts are paid, however I know about the company, and I know that it is not the only one where the owner says that up to a quarter of the employees are in execution. And for the owner, it means he must have another payroll accountant. And there's another connection. Those employees are resisting any overtime, any other job that means they're going to increase their income beyond what's set up, and not that they don't want to work, but they're running into the so-called. gray zones. But that's a problem from the perspective of the social system. Of course, for these people personally, but also for the whole social system. Because if they have low incomes at a working age, then the lower they have pensions, the lower they have possible sicknesses, and then they fall into our social welfare system, and completely unnecessary. It just needs to be set up to pay off those people's work and to be able to get out of that debt bottom that they sometimes got into with their own guilt, sometimes just recklessly, but many really weren't able to do it, basically, that it was their naivety, or they just wanted to help someone. [[10.20 hours]] I would like to add another argument on why we should approve this proposal as quickly as possible. The social impact scenarios of the coronation crisis predict an increase in poverty rates in the age group of 18 to 49 years, i.e. working age, especially for employees. I therefore want to very and very much appreciate the petitioner Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher, that they were able to react very quickly and a proposal that concerned the whole issue of executions to adjust, respectively. withdraw from it a proposal to set up a protected account. Because this is a very useful instrument on which political agreement can be made, the consensus of all actors can be, and, as far as I know, more or less all those involved in the introduction of a protected account, even if it is not a government proposal, the Minister of Justice has already spoken about it at the beginning. Therefore, I am really in favour of approving this proposal as it was put forward. A protected account has a very, very, very important goal. It has the ability to return to the lives of those who have fallen into the debt trap. And that may be even more important at this point than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u19	Thank you, Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. It is now Mr Patrik Nacher's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Kateřina Valachová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I would like to comment on some of the things that have fallen around this protected account in this context, and to shed some light on them deeper, which may not yet have been mentioned here. The first issue is protection against abuse, that people will start two, three, four protected accounts, and that way they will go around the system. I explained it on the constitutional law committee. If I'm based on the elementary logic of people who don't follow any rules, that logic inevitably leads to the fact that such a person doesn't want to be revealed. Those are exactly the cases where this guy completely avoids cashless payment and wants to get the money on the wood, takes it and goes away. If he started one and then the other protected account, he risks very much that sooner or later, at least by cooperating with the executor and the other employer who sends him money, even if it wasn't for a permanent employment relationship. And at that point, the person who's going around, he's going to draw attention to himself, literally. I can hardly imagine that in practice. I'm not saying that I can rule it out, that someone like that would start two protected accounts and feel like they've grown older. And I almost dare say that whoever wants to bypass the system will, unfortunately, continue the current regime. That means he's gonna keep the money on his hand, and he's not gonna set up a protected account. Not that there's two of them, but he's not even gonna set it up. I think it's obvious. Second thing, bank charges. I've already talked about it in part. We are also dealing with one quite interesting thing with this proposal. Today, if you look at how much it costs to keep accounts, current bank accounts, we move either free of charge if you meet any criteria, five or six banks even without these conditions, or we move in the order of low ten crowns, while the account held in execution is often in hundreds of crowns. And we actually say in this proposal, first of all, that the protected account will be held under the terms under which current accounts are held, and second, that under the same conditions, the account that is currently affected by execution should also be held. In other words, we just want to give answers to complaints from people who say they are the ones who have the least, they have the deepest in their pockets, but paradoxically, they pay the highest bank charges. The third point for which the protected account is intended. Because this might fit in with the debate. I've defined these two groups. For those who are in execution today and do not have an account. They're in execution, and they don't have an account. Because they're avoiding the system. And we're trying to bring them back into the system. And no one here says it's 100%. It's not such a law, we're not able to generate it, and it's not possible. But the goal is to get these people into the system. The second big group is who has a checking account today and is not in execution yet. That's the prevention that Kateřina Valachová was talking about. Therefore, this is very important at the time of coronavirus. That means, if I could theoretically agree with the thesis, as I've heard it in the machine guns, that it doesn't help people, because whoever's out of the system and avoids executions, doesn't have a current account, it kind of works, he's used to it, why would he start it. On the one hand, I don't think that's entirely true, it's also necessary to lead the education here that these people are also losing their resources when they're retired by being out of the system. Then they'll be surprised. But here is essentially one group of people, because the current account has 95 percent of the citizens in this country, and the moment they fall into execution, there will already be an instrument to protect the unforgivable amount. That's what it means. It's a group of people with a bank account, but they're not in execution yet. And they could be in it. That's prevention. The last point, that is such a small point, perhaps we will say it in detail in the third reading, I did not understand much to my colleague Lukáš Kolářík, who now proposed amendments which are absolutely unrelated to this. I'm happy to talk about this territoriality in the five-five, I think it's gonna be a trash debate, but it really has nothing to do with a protected account. Perhaps only that the protected account goes at a faster pace, logically, because that is the isolated one thing that is more or less congruent across. Which reminds me of the last thing I dare, and now I don't know if I'm doing it, I'll never get used to it, formally, procedurally correct, that I'm proposing to shorten the deadline for a third reading to seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u21	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now perform, and Marek Benda will be ready. [[Mrs Valachová is running for her seat. Mr Blazek is commenting.]] Colleague Hrnčíř applied to the facts, but after I gave the floor...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u22	I'm not running from my colleague Mark Benda or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u23	So let me just clarify, my colleague, that, with a factual remark before my colleague Marek Benda, my colleague Hrnčíř will still be here, okay? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the general debate, I would just like to draw closer to what I will then read in a detailed debate in terms of protecting maintenance through a protected account. As I mentioned here in the introductory words, we simply want to make it very clear that maintenance cannot be affected in any way. And it is through a protected maintenance account towards the child that the whole will also be paid and will end up available to the child as it should. [[10.30 hours]] We agreed with Mrs Válková and my colleague Nacher that, in this sense, we will not specify but extend the proposal, which has the Government's consent. This is very important to say. In short, according to the amendment, if it receives the support of the Chamber of Deputies, it will mean that the child, truly child support, will be fully protected by the protected account. Thus, it will not be possible in any way to shorten the amounts to serve the child, and the protected account here will ensure that what we long-term call for is really the money that belongs to the child's needs. So brief. And of course, you have detailed reasons for the amendment, which I will sign up for in detail in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u25	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. And now, therefore, the factual remark of Mr Hrnčíř and then the duly registered Mr Marek Benda. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only react briefly to what was said here. We in the SPD, of course, support the protected account, because the practice of executors is such that there is really no respect for the minimum of living, and the situation is really disastrous for those affected debtors. That means it's definitely a good tool. I would also like to draw attention to the amendment, where I am a co-president here, along with my colleague Valachová and others, where the possibility of not confiscating four times the minimum of life is extended even after 31. This year's 12th, because the situation of low-income residents is really getting worse because of the very measures taken in the fight against coronavirus. However, these are all measures that actually address the consequences, and I would also like to draw attention here to those proposals that we have been trying to enforce over the long term, and that is to say, the interest ceiling, that is to say, so that there is no such loan-lending, where the borrowers are overdebted, or here we also have a bill that is inserted in the system, the SPD proposal, when we say that it is necessary to pay the principal first, and then only interest, and not to pay interest on interest, that is to say, that there is no overpriced or cost increase in consumer credit etc. Likewise, the territoriality mentioned here, which, of course, we also support because it would lead to a reduction in the costs of execution. These are all the proposals that the SPD has been promoting over the long term, and I think that the protected account is such a first step, and I believe that we will manage the conditions for debtors, but also for creditors to straighten out so that it doesn't destroy those low-income residents, and... thank you. [[Attention on time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u27	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. And now, therefore, the last one entered in the general debate, Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u28	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam appellant, I am in favour of this general consensus, which is here, as everything is perfect and a protected account is the best that can help us, so let me make a few comments. You know I'm more of a creditor's advocate than a debtor's. I think that debts should be paid, no debts have been created on their own, and there is always an enforceable judgment before that. So the shouting about the poor people falling into debt traps that we're repeatedly exposed to here seems a little hypocritical to me. I think it should be said in the first place: no one borrows over what you're able to repay, all of you fulfill your legal and other obligations, and then don't cry that it got to you, when you don't repeatedly take legal subpoenas, you live somewhere else, so suddenly those debts jumped up so badly. That's the first note. Second point. The protected account has become a fetish, with which part of the social democracy in particular seeks to create the idea that it somehow solves the situation of people who are in debt. I believe it will work very, very little. People who actually have an account don't take money completely out, there's not too much of it among those debtors. These may be some, some retired people, and all these attempts over and over again to improve space in execution proceedings only lead to those overdue people not going into insolvency proceedings, which I consider to be the only right thing to do in a situation of deep debt. It must be said yes, I am unable to repay my debts, I am going through insolvency proceedings. At the same time, I would like to say that this proposal has been mentioned for about two years. It comes again in the form of an accelerated discussion, a shortening of deadlines, approval under paragraph 90 when vetoed, and approval within a period of 10 days, with deep market contradictions, where at least part of the representatives, when we take into account that we have some debtors, some creditors, executives who do so, and the banks involved in this, at least a significant part of the market is deeply dissatisfied with this and draws attention to the problems it will bring to them. If something was supposed to be possible - and if we're based on foreign inspiration, when we're pretending to be coming out here, it's in Germany, where there's a protected account, but there's a completely different system of discounting from wages, it's the banks that do it in protected accounts to leave some of the rest, and they divide it. If something was to be the goal, then somehow solve the issue of wage deductions in the Czech Republic, which is extremely difficult, and we all know that from employers how much work it gives them for people who are subject to enforcement proceedings, or multiple execution procedures, so how to calculate the deductions and make so many crowns into that account and for that similar amount. These are things that should have been dealt with. They're not. It has really become just a password, which, in the form in which it is presented by the appellant, is actually betting on the fact that the decent and who behave properly and fairly are the debtors. I have no idea why we should believe this when it's obviously them who've broken some of their responsibilities before, or some of their commitment. We have no real and meaningful control mechanism here. You know that I tried to design at least a register of these protected accounts on the Board of Constitutional Law, but it didn't go through there, and I don't have the strength in today's situation to rewrite and rewrite it all the time in three days. We just won't have a register of protected accounts. I think it's a big mistake. And one final point. The appellant, I presume she will propose an increase of the unforgivable amount once again to four times the minimum of life, as happened in the spring. In the spring, we did this as a transitional measure, which was intended to go ahead with the creation of a protected account institute. Now it's tripled. It's not even a very low amount. But if - and I don't believe that the right hand doesn't know what the left is doing - representatives of social democracy, in this case the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, repeatedly with proposals to increase the minimum of living, at this time almost twice as much, then let's just think about what it will do to those protected accounts and how it will completely minimize the chance of creditors to win back their claims in some way. It seems very dubious to me. At the very least, I would ask that we not encourage attempts to increase the number of life minima, because by what the government may do in the coming months, the amounts will rise dramatically, and I think this should always be in some equilibrium. [[10.40 hours]] It's just that there aren't poor debtors and bad creditors. It's a lot more complicated than that, the world. In a number of cases, those creditors are the poor people who don't get paid. They are far from just institutions and institutional creditors, but in many cases they are SVJ, people to whom no one has paid the contract, something they borrowed from them, and other things. And they get in trouble, and we should think about them sometimes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u29	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now Mrs Kateřina Valachová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u30	Mr President, colleagues, allow me to respond to Marek Benda. Well, I think who listened, both in my case and Patrik Nacher's case, has heard what we're primarily interested in, what this proposal is all about. We've both stressed that this is about prevention. We simply do not want to repeat what happened in 2010-2012 in the context of the economic crisis, where people who, of course, went to work, received pensions, tried to keep the job, paid their commitments, not by their guilt, but by not paying the wages of the employer, delays, secondary insolvency, where a number of businessmen fell, so they got into a situation, not that they are some bad guys, debtors just out of the loop, but as a result of the economic crisis. And that's why we've put it in an accelerated process now, because we just want to prevent repetition. We are now protecting those who have regular income who have no problems up until now. I said it in the opening words. This is about 350 thousand households that have asked for mortgage payments, and there's a central bank's concern that they're going to have problems. Before the crisis, this is 30 percent of the employees. Of course, they go to work, they pay back what they borrowed to creditors, but this state allows for ten years - not only does it encourage someone to break the rules, we allow ourselves, and because we are legislators, so unfortunately we are in it too, all of us together. We allow what belongs to the family for a living, to pay the rent, after the debtor has properly paid it back, so we take it away from him. Probably supposed to go graze, or we're all supposed to pay it out of our pockets again through some doses. So that's why we're presenting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I ask who is applying to the general debate because I have no other application. If no one, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The plaintiff, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u32	Just very briefly. I think I owe this to my colleagues from coalition MPs in particular, so that they really don't think for a second that in the coming months and years it hasn't all been dealt with. It was completely with everyone, and frankly, the effort to protect the accounts is at least ten years old. I guess anyone can confirm that. This is the first proposal in the House, and the first proposal that's so far away. In a situation where the possible effects of the coronavirus crisis are on our heels, we really need protected accounts. And I very much appreciate the fact that we have the support of trade union parties for employees, employers for employees. The fact that we don't have protected accounts, above all, decimates employee-employer relationships. That's the basic problem. I am glad to support the Association of Civil Meetings, Czech Association of Compulsory, Charity. They all recommend that you approve, please, please don't repeat the situation ten years ago. Of course, we listen to them. We have the support of colleagues from the Czech Social Security Administration. Eighty thousand retirees pay off, mostly in cash. It's just a risk at the time of coronavirus. Of course, we need to support cash-free payment. I could tell you another 20 minutes here. As for the banks, what we could work on, Patrik Nacher and I worked on. I won't hold up any longer, because today we have a number of points in the legislative emergency. I appreciate, colleagues, the substantive debate, and the fact that you have enabled the protected account to be discussed in an accelerated form, so I will not delay and will inform the constitutionally-legal committee in detail about everything that has been incorporated into the proposal in the Czech Banking Association, there has been a number of things, very often the Ministry of Justice and other subjects have been gnashing their teeth. It is simply a compromise like any proposal, but I stand by it to work, to protect what should never be enforced, and to prevent a lot of people who have no problems at all, co-workers and colleagues, from falling into our debt trap as in 2010 but who may not have debts at the moment. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your consideration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u33	Thank you. There was no proposal in the general debate that was voted between the general and detailed debate at second reading. A motion to shorten the deadline between second and third readings... [[Mrs Valachová, from the rapporteur's table, speaks to the President.]] We will vote to shorten after the end of the detailed debate, because there is room for it, because we have to decide how it will continue to be discussed between second and third reading, but I have noted it and I have it here. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must also be justified. The first enrollment is Mr Marek Výborný in a detailed debate. Mr. Lukáš Kolářík will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Government, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby submit to the amendment on behalf of colleagues Tomáš Kohoutek, Jan Chvojka, Dominik Feri and Marek Výborný, which is read under the House press number 6576. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u35	Thank you. Mr Lukáš Kolářík will now prepare Kateřina Valachová in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u36	Thank you. As I announced in the debate, I am calling for two amendments. One is under House document 6574, so-called open data, the other is House document 6575, so-called territoriality, local jurisdiction of executors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u37	I thank Mr Lukáš Kolářík. Now, therefore, in a detailed debate by Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Stanislav Grospič will be prepared in a detailed debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u38	I'm terribly sorry, but colleagues, colleagues, can I have a five-minute break for the club meeting, please? [[- Okay.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u39	Right now. And for how long, madam? Five minutes, okay. So we'll continue at 10.51. I'm declaring a recess for a meeting of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a meeting of the Social Democracy Club is over. I'm gonna ask you to calm down. Return to your stations. And in a detailed debate, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, will be prepared by Stanislav Grospič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your helpfulness and patience. I hereby sign up here in a detailed debate to the amendment that I presented in more detail in the general debate, so I will not repeat it. Detailed justification. This therefore concerns the absolute protection of maintenance through a protected account when it comes to child support. And this amendment has number 6578. And then, in the context of a detailed debate, I would like to read one more technical thing, namely an amendment which would be: paragraph 1 in the first part, Article 1 of Amendment 2 in Section 304c paragraph. 1, the third sentence is replaced by the following: "The monetary institution shall not have the right to pay for the establishment and maintenance of a protected account." This is a technical adjustment resulting from the comments of the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u42	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Now, Mr Stanislav Grospič in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me join the group of amendments signed by other colleagues, Valachová, Lukáš Kolařík, Jan Hrnčíř and Jan Farský under registration number Aulická. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u44	I thank Mr Grospič. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The plaintiff? The rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, we have one duty before us, and that is to vote on the reduction of the deadline for third reading to seven days, as suggested by Mr Nacher. [[Objection from the diaper.]] Ten days? Ten days. The designer was a colleague of Nacher. He said seven. So... Please specify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u45	You know, I'm not very good at procedurals, so I'm adjusting it to ten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-23-ps2017-062-04-003-021.u46	Okay. So after repairing the proposal, or specifying the proposal. We have a vote ahead of us. I'm gonna reengage. And we will vote to shorten the deadline from fourteen to ten days between second and third readings. The way I see it, you want me to check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has stabilized, we will decide in voting number 152 to shorten the deadline from fourteen to ten days. I've started voting number 152 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 152, from the present 77 for 68, against no one. The motion was accepted. In that case, I can thank the applicant's representative Kateřina Valachová, rapporteur Marek Výborný, and I conclude point 21 that the deadline between second and third readings for printing 986 is reduced to ten days. We'll continue with point number
