ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-001-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws in connection with flat-rate taxes /house print 922/4/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, his resolution delivered as House press 922/5. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Mr. Senator among us. I don't see him yet. It should be Senator Vilímec. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr. Senator's coming. Hello. I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová to speak first for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. You ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for peace of mind for the sixth time. Please, let us maintain the dignified atmosphere of this gathering. Thank you. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-001-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of the bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws in connection with flat-rate taxes. The proposal constitutes the fulfilment of the requirement to extend the Institute's flat-rate tax, which is one of the items of the Government's programming declaration. The current flat-rate tax system, as it is in the Income Tax Act, is not being used very much and will therefore be replaced by this new conceptual regime that is more helpful to taxpayers. I would like to remind you that it aims at a group, a select group of taxpayers of personal income tax with income from self-employment, such as tradesmen for whom a significant reduction in administrative complexity is justified. Taxpayers who have income from self-employment not exceeding CZK 1 million may enter the flat-rate scheme, i.e. they are not VAT payers. And the flat-rate is not only tax, but also public insurance, which means that in one month's payment, such an aggregate payment, they send one payment to the tax administrator, and other things they don't have to worry about, they don't give tax returns or overviews of public insurance, they're not really in danger of tax control, because what they control. The total amount of monthly payment for 2021 will be CZK 5 469 and includes an advance on insurance pensions and a contribution to state employment policy equal to the minimum monthly assessment base of the self-employed person increased by CZK 15 per cent, i.e. CZK 2 976, an advance on public health insurance premiums equal to the monthly minimum assessment base of the self-employed person of CZK 2, 393 and an advance on income tax, which will be fixed at CZK 100. Of course, I submit and underline that this is voluntary, which means whether a taxpayer - a businessman, a self-employed person - decides to go under a flat-rate tax is up to his choice. The Senate returned the bill with an amendment concerning the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. I mean that this is a technical regulation of the law, which the Ministry of Finance supports, when the relevant share of the municipality and the region in the income tax of natural persons will be calculated from the entire national gross income, not just from 60 per cent. It is an anomaly that has been in the law for years and which the Ministry would be inclined to adjust if it had been opened in the ordinary legislative process by the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. This adjustment results in the benefit of local authorities, we estimate it to be about CZK 700 million, and for this reason I support the version as it was returned to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-001-005.u3	I thank you and ask Senator Vladislav Vilímec to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-001-005.u4	Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Government, honourable Members, I have been charged with explaining the amendment to the returned House of Press 922, the bill amending the Income Tax Act No. 586/1992 and some other laws, in connection with flat-rate taxes. In fact, the Minister has presented the Senate's amendment comprehensively, so I will just add that the introduction of the flat-rate tax institute is not so simple and requires technical adjustments to many other laws, social security laws, sickness insurance and health insurance, and one of those laws which must also be amended in connection with flat-rate taxes is the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, because this law does not actually know the new flat-rate tax institute at all. The amendment of the Senate consists of what the Minister said, namely the settlement of the illogical nature that historically arose in the budgetary determination of taxes on the calculation of the proportion of municipalities and regions in the income tax revenue paid by taxpayers. In this case alone, the share is calculated to be 60 per cent, otherwise in other cases, in the case of other shared taxes, in the case of value added tax for all other income tax titles, it is 100 per cent. [[Nesroz.]] The Senate is trying to remove this illogicality in connection with the flat-rate tax, because if it had not been removed, the illogicality would have been extended to the flat-rate tax, because the flat-rate tax is, in fact, a similar to the income tax paid by taxpayers. The impact of this proposal, as the Minister said, is roughly according to the calculation of the Ministry of Finance plus CZK 700 million for municipalities and regions, but the aim of this proposal is, in the present case, not to increase the contribution for municipalities and regions, but to correct the situation that actually occurred with the contribution paradoxically to the Senate in 2016, in connection with the abolition of the so-called motivation of 30% on the collection of income tax on individuals paid by taxpayers. I think that's enough for the proposal, because I'm certainly not here to discuss the complicated system that we have on the budget for tax determination. I would like to ask you, honourable Members, to support the amendment in the Senate, which is internally interlinked, it is actually one proposal internally linked, and then to support the bill in the version returned by the Senate to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-001-005.u5	Thank you. I ask if the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Venhoda, wants to comment too - he is not interested in speaking. I am opening the debate on this point. I'm asking who's interested in the show. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-001-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the Senate version of this proposal is better, but we see one problem in that law, so I will try to explain why we will not support either version in most of our club, and that is the question of jumping at the turnover of one million crowns. Here, when a man earns the millionth crown, he falls back into the ordinary tax payment scheme, and suddenly he has a huge tax obligation that he didn't quite count on. We supported the original government proposal, where the turnover criterion was 800 thousand, where the tooth is by far less large than the normal tax regime. For this reason, in the majority of this vote, we will abstain, although the idea of flat-rate taxation has its logic, but implementation as it is is is not what we want it to be. We think that there are already so many barriers to one million turnovers, whether it is VAT payers or other things, that it can potentially limit the development of businesses where companies will deliberately stay, or businesses will deliberately remain below a million turnovers, so that they do not fall into a less advantageous tax regime, which we believe may have a long-term negative impact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-001-005.u7	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. If no one's volunteering, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? Madam Secretary, it's not. Mr. Senator's not interested. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws relating to flat-rate taxes, according to House press 922/4, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 922/5.' Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 184 Members signed in, for 154, against no one, the proposal was adopted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, I'm done discussing this point. Opening point number
