ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u1	The joint debate on points 246 and 250 Interrupted five. 3. As I have already announced, there is a merged debate. Mr Petr Bendl is the first member of the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Once again, I will ask my colleague and colleagues for peace in the hall. If you have something to say to yourself, try in the foyer. Thank you. This is especially true of those standing right at the speaker's desk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't go near the Home Secretary right now so we wouldn't catch anything else. [[He's laughing.]] I mean coronavirus, Minister, but that's okay. Thank you for the floor. I'd like to finish my performance, which I've sent before. I would like to thank the Ministers for integrating one of my proposals in their motion for a resolution concerning the analysis of measures against the reduction of water vapor in the territory in order to retain water in the countryside. The only thing I would ask is whether it is possible to cross out in this proposal that this analysis will not only be done on forest land, but to be done in general, because the topic of water retention in the landscape is related to this, so that we do not only forest land, but also land - permanent grassland, etc., field ploughed, unsored, harvested, unharvested, etc., thus in point 3 paragraph 3. 5 to make the word "forestland" disappear. All you need is a "water vapor from the soil on calumny shavings for the purpose of water retention" in the period up to 30. 6. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] And then at that point--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I am repeatedly asking for your peace of mind. Transfer your debates to the foyer and allow your colleague to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u4	Thank you so much for the silence. I really won't be too long. The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 3 where we ask the Ministry of Agriculture to create the necessary conditions for owners and forest managers for effective protection - in the proposal is "forests against barking and for successful restoration of new more resilient forests". There I would recommend that instead of "forests against bark," it should generally be "against pests," because it is not only a crust that bothers us, but also at least a large beaver, so if it is only "against pests," we will all understand it, I think. I have informed the Minister in advance of my second proposal. I will read it: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Agriculture to take into account the fact that there are locations in the Czech Republic where the necessary amount of precipitation will not fall in the long term and the hope that trees will live to an adult age is thus significantly reduced. We have quite detailed information about how we are on collisions in individual parts of the Czech Republic. Given that we also know how much precipitation the forest needs to be viable, then I would simply hate to order owners to have a legislative obligation to plant the forest again where they have no chance of life. This will be unnecessarily wasted money, which we should rather invest in other measures in those areas where the forest can no longer, in principle, be maintained by the climate change, the temperatures we have, and the amount of rainfall that will fall in those locations each year. That's all I'd ask. I would then read the amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There is a factual remark from Mr Profant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u6	I would really just have a brief de facto for my previous speaker. One of the major problems is that the Hydrometeorological Office is hiding data on collisions and making them accessible to citizens and farmers. I know there's an amendment going on right now that's supposed to change it, but I think the really important issue is that this data is accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u7	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Martinů.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u8	Have a good day. Dear colleagues, I would very much like to draw attention to and highlight Mr Petr Bendl's words about the fatal problem of our country in fumes. Over the last few years, we've raised the fumes up to 80 percent of the total amount of rained rainfall. And I think that's the key thing. We're losing 80 percent of the water with fumes. We don't even have that much water, but I repeat, the main problem is the total fumes. Of course, this has to do with the warming, the rising temperature, and, of course, with everything. And those woods - I would like to point out that the words of Petr Bendl are actually very timely. We've been planting woods for 200 years on hundreds of thousands of hectares, where those woods, especially spruce, don't have water. And water and temperature are the main reasons why we're facing such a huge forest breakup today. So that's what I wanted to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u9	Thank you. We have dealt with the factual points and Mr Holomčík is entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. In this parliamentary term, I have already twice proposed a resolution by which, as the Chamber of Deputies, we would call on the Ministry of Agriculture to thoroughly analyse data from remote sensing, forest and economic records and, in fact, all the information that the Ministry of Agriculture has on the cruststorm and on the forestry industry in general. I'm gonna be reading this resolution today, or proposing it, for the third time. I am not going to delay him in the general debate because it is quite long, I will read it in detail, and I would like to ask you for his support. I have at least two very good reasons for this. The first reason is the reason for the principle. I think it would be very appropriate for us to finally start telling the citizens of this country the truth. And if you look at the way the Department of Agriculture informs sometimes, let's say, since 2016, about the development of crust sludge, there are a number of doubts. In short, I'll do a little chronological incision. August 2016 - our forests are in the best condition in the last 250 years. August 2017 - is a problem, we will have to terminate, or let the suppliers, the miners who profit for the Forests of the Czech Republic, terminate contracts so that they don't accidentally go bankrupt, which also happened at the end of 2017. The damage was estimated to go into billions - a year after our forests were in the best condition in the last 250 years. April 2018 - yes, the calamity is, but climate change is responsible for it, it certainly doesn't mean that anyone would fail. May 11, 2018 - the former CEO, doktor Szórád, is to blame for everything. And this way, I could go on with the information that was about when the Ministry actually knew there was going to be a problem. Finally, at the end of 2018, it became clear that there was a great deal of information already in 2013, that at least in the forest administrations of Sternberk and Bruntál the trouble was, and it is big. So I think, given that we're talking about one-sixth of this country's area in the administration of a state enterprise, virtually. about one third of this country, if I take forests as a whole, I think it would really be appropriate to start telling our citizens the truth. And that resolution, virtually. what we would have asked the Ministry for in this resolution is something that would really help the information, because we would have seen where the calamity arose, when it arose, how it spread and for what reasons it was all about. I think it's extremely important. And the second thing, which is perhaps, or certainly even more important, is that if we want to change the system of the state forest administration in some way, the protection of forests, but also change the approach of the Ministry of Agriculture as the founder of a state enterprise, we still need to know what happened. If you go to a doctor, he won't treat you if he doesn't find out what happened to you, what kind of family conditions you have, etc. So I think it really needs to be told exactly what happened in those woods, why it happened. And it's not some attempt by some Holomčík to see the blood or the heads fall. It's just that we need information to make qualified decisions, we here, especially those relating to the amendment to forest law, hunting law, state budget and other things. And there are really many problems ahead of us, no matter how much we talk about liberalization and anchoring the nature of closer ways of farming in the forest law, now we have a hunting law, which is going to be a big hit parade. What's happening right now, I think it's a mockery to farmers, foresters, and conservationists. Of course, we will have to look at how to support forestry education, whether high school or high school. And another thing, and I'd like to put an end to that, if you don't mind. Now in the media it has resonated that the state enterprise is a billion crowns in loss and actually covers it with an accountant. I understand to a large extent, the situation is really difficult. I don't envy the director of the situation he has to deal with. But I would like us to talk in some way about how the Czech government has been treating the state enterprise since 2013 or 2012 when reserves were drawn out of reserves by over 30 billion into the state budget, including the four-billion-dollar fund, the reserve for growing jobs. The fact that this began at a time of crisis, when the finance minister needed to improve the budget in some way, one may have doubts about that, but it is understandable. But that this was happening at a time of economic growth, when there was definitely no reason, was not a valid reason, I consider that to be a big mistake. Moreover, there were a number of indicators - no matter what was happening in those woods, whether the development of calamity mining - was about to get into a lot of trouble. And I've been asking my lawyers these last few days if this approach is fulfilling the nature of the crime of neglecting the duties of managing foreign property. I would conclude with this, and I would like to ask once again for the support of the resolution, which I will also give to the club presidents, and I will read it in a detailed debate. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u11	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u12	A colleague of mine, Holomčík, suggests looking for the perpetrator. Basically, carrying out a forensic audit of what was done in those woods, using photographs and an analysis of the way the woodsmen behaved at the moment the bark was discovered, there's probably nothing more to do than try to guess who did it. However, I stress that it was mainly caused by the fact that there is no water, that the forest was so weakened, so unable to defend the crust that it eventually succumbed to it and will be subject to at least three to five years. Only for those of you who may not even know it - I didn't know it until recently either - 250 years ago or sometime around 1750 there were a little more than 1 million hectares of forests in the Czech Republic, and today there are 2.6 million hectares registered in the Czech Republic, which is an official number. The unofficial is definitely more than 3 million hectares. So we have been in the Czech Republic for the last 250 years, and I agree with you, and so did my colleague Martinů here, that we have sometimes quite ill-advisedly planted forests where basically in the past, and not very short, have never been. However, there's no point in blaming those who did it before those 100, 150 or maybe 70 years ago. Above all, we must look to the future and look for solutions to prevent the damage that is essentially caused by water shortages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u13	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Holomčík, then Mr Juránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to make an easy argument with my colleague Bendl. I don't really care about pointing someone out, finding the culprit and dragging someone around. My point is to describe exactly what happened in those woods. Because the problem - yes, of course drought is a big problem, lack of water is a big problem, but the basic problem that has happened is that we are the foresters, who often show that they are the pests, that they are responsible, so the forest system ripped the forest out of their hands. That's it. We have an economic forest that, according to all customs, should somehow manage and decide what is going on in that forest, a forester who is educated, who has some experience, who simply knows and knows the forest. But the system, like it's built now, is pulling control of the forest out of these people's hands. That's the basic problem. And I believe that if we really respond responsibly to this forensic analysis, it will show up and we can finally say yes, let's do everything we can to get our forests back into the hands of the foresters. That's all I care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u15	Thank you. Mr Juránek, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u16	I will take the liberty of responding to my two previous speakers through the President, as is the rule. And I mean, I'm from a forestry family. From time immemorial, what I find in my family tree, we have dealt with this matter, i.e. the protection of the forest, by planting the forest. I mean, we can't talk about short-term things that happened in 2016. What's happening in the woods is from the smallest seedling to the largest tree, and it's happening in 120 years. That's the first thing. And the other thing. We have one tool on the basis of which we are able to analyse things, what happened in any place in the woods in the Czech Republic, and this is a ten-year forest economic plan. And I assure you that we need to think about what's been going on lately. I don't think it takes a forensic audit, but I think it's very easy to map based on all the steps that have been taken. And I consider it the biggest mistake that, especially with the Forests of the Czech Republic, we have come to the fact that the gamekeeper has ceased to be a protector of the forest, a person who cares for it, and has become the contracting authority of the competitions. I think we need to think about this, and now we don't need to beat ourselves up to the things that are here. The analysis must be carried out. In the coming years, the bark will still be winning, and we know that we will have to plant in the coming decades, we will have to make new economic plans and we will have to work on them. I think we're going to agree at the final stage and we're going to point it in some way. It is a great task for the Minister and for the forests as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u17	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. President Kováčik, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is going on more widely, it's going on for reasons. I would also like to make my point, which was inspired by my colleague Holomčík - who ripped the forest out of the hands of the foresters. Even Juránek, who said precisely that the protector of the forest in the person of the forester becomes merely the contracting authority. However, it must be said where the real roots of the vast majority of the problems are long-term. These are in the wrong transformation of the then Czechoslovak state forests, in the fact that ownership was separated, and let's say, such ownership administration, which was entrusted to the les of the Czech Republic, to the state enterprise, subsequently, and to the activities where those activities were entrusted to the private sector, to equity companies. Which isn't a problem until the very moment that forester got out of hand in this way. I think all these years this model has been working with some problems. Remember only tens and dozens of doubts and problems in whether the production and mining contract was issued correctly, whether there were any machinations, scams and such forms, whether it was in the transport site or on the board or in the landfill, or how to sell the wood. And that's the first-time problem where the forester, instead of being in the woods every day and watching his health, just dealt with these problems. So it is necessary to go to the real root, and the return of the forest to the hands of the forester must be addressed by perhaps turning this model of ownership from activities. So I'm talking about a country-owned forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u19	Your time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the debate. She is excused, so next up is Mr. Jan Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u20	Mr President, fellow Members, I would also like to comment on this topic, because I always speak about this and try to communicate my views. Today, we are dealing with an epidemic and an understanding, and with ease we are following the steps of the government that it has taken. Also, experts are asking who the zero patient was, where the epidemic came from. We're also dealing with an epidemic on the subject that we're talking about right now, we're just calling it a calamity. And maybe we could also ask ourselves about the origin of the epidemic, the origin of the crusty plague, where it actually came from. Unfortunately, I have to say and repeat that, in fact, the first massive barking calamity was in that modern era, which we are watching, where we are looking and passing away the historical reasons mentioned by colleagues of those, say, centuries ago - so it was 2007, orkán Kyrill, leaving fallen wood in the first and second zones without rendering. At the time, the Minister who decided on this was the Minister of the Environment Bursík. And that's when the barking calamity came out. We protested very much back then. Both regional authorities - South Bohemia and Pilsen - have taken many different steps and protests against this. But then the opinion was that the bark is part of nature and that nature will be able to cope with it, that it needs to be left alone, and in the wilderness that started in Šumava - mainly ideologically - to be born, it will play its place next to trees, animals, squirrels, deer, so it will also be part of the nature of bark. Of course, some of the bark trees in Sumava were mined. Among other things, in order to avoid the intrusion of the calamity into the neighbouring vegetation of our neighbors in Bavaria, but especially in Austria, where the forests with which the national park, the private forests, the forests are economic. It belongs to most of the monastery in Schläglu. And yet the calamity began to spread. I know that those who support the wilderness theory in Sumava would like to scream at me right now, they will criticize me. If anyone gets to know my performance, they're gonna say the crusty tree's gonna fly a few meters. It's not like that. Krůrovec, for one thing, can fly more meters and kilometers, but also unfortunately the bark is transported during various transfers of wood under-asanated, which is driven to various places of the Czech Republic. [[9.40 hours]] The situation in Sumava finally culminated in the fact that Minister Brabec called off the director. At that time, I pointed it out, and the crustacean calamity in the woods of the farm, which then followed, resulted in the appeal of Director Szórád, who was called away for not fighting the bark tree sufficiently. The director of the National Park Šumava Jiří Mánek was recalled in 2014 for precisely trying to fight the crust. It might seem that what I'm saying is that the deforested Sumava with the dry trees has no influence. But it's not. I have data from the meteostanice in Lhenice, a town in Pošumava, which shows how dramatically the amount of precipitation has fallen since 2007 when it was 627 mm until 2013, when it was 450 mm until last year, when the precipitation sum is 361 mm. It's dramatic, and I think it makes sense to deal with the fact that the Sumava that's deforested by the bark calamity is affecting it. What about the future? What awaits us in the future? Air surveys from the end of last year show that in our woods is attacked by a bark tree of 150 million trees. That's a huge amount. We just have to face it somehow. I asked the Minister of Agriculture whether he was considering using some methods of crisis management, as we expect, of course, that the methods of crisis management are being used in the human epidemic. Of course, who would have thought that we would be resisting this crisis management method? But not here, it's not possible here. An emergency cannot be used, although I think it should be possible that in those regions where the calamity is grazed at the time, an emergency could be declared, which the government could possibly extend after 30 days. It would allow for a great acceleration of those steps to bail out and destroy the crust just without those absolutely fatally complex competitions, which are one of the reasons. And here I have to agree with my colleague Holomčík and my colleague Kováčik that the situation had its origins in the department of administration and ownership, which, I think, was a big mistake in the 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the means of crisis management could really be used, just to want and find courage and will. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. Now the question often arises about the wood matter that appears. In part, we helped those forest managers by somehow releasing their hands in the possibility of interfering where the crust is still very lively and dangerous, and by keeping the crusty land from which the crusty bark has flown and which no longer produce it in the forest. But it's just wood matter, what are we gonna do about it? Exporting, of course, is something that is out of common sense, driving wood to China. It's, I don't know, some myth, some fable. So we're looking for ways to use the wood. I once held a seminar on decentralised energy here in the House, energy storage in batteries, hydrogen cells and biomass. We had three topics here. As it happens, little was born of it, only a fraction. And it's the biomass -- that's when the people who took part in the seminar continue to develop methods for burning wood with pyrolysis. Czech Forestry University handles these things. Maybe we should look at these things and try to find ways to use the excess of wood matter for its energy use. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the situation in the barking sector is serious at the moment, and I fear that it will be even worse in the coming years. Moreover, the weather conditions are unfortunately favourable for the future generation of crusts, warm winter, if it is going to be as summer as we experienced last year, it is possible to hope that really 150 million trees will fall. Someone mentioned looking for a culprit. Of course, I wouldn't want to, and I won't be looking for a culprit. I would just like us to realize that it is not good to say that the culprit of this calamity is the Czech foresters who have managed in the best faith here for centuries and have become a state that really has a legitimate respect. I would like to remind you that the culprit is not even a spruce, which, in some opinion, probably administrative, was planted in places where there are no good conditions for its cultivation. But we simply cannot completely erase the spruce from the composition of our forests, among other things, because of its great economic significance as wood for construction. Unfortunately, we can't do without him yet. I would therefore advocate that we return the Czech forests to the hands of Czech foresters so that we can trust them and their experience and, if possible, try to eliminate such environmental insights that would like to make the wilderness not only from Šumava but also from other forests in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u21	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My previous speaker was talking about wanting to define a zero patient here, and he was looking for an analogy in the current situation of the spread of infection and in the situation of the spread of the crust. I'm convinced he defined it wrong. And that's because we can't look for where the first tree was in that situation, but we have to see these things in context. And it was clearly said that the water shortage is also a direct link. The lack of water leads us to the death of trees here, including the spruce and bark, but they die in big and pine trees. And let's take a closer look, ladies and gentlemen. The reason for this is climate change. That's why when we drive, we don't see the amount of flies we have in the front seat anymore, and other things that happen. The reason for the fires in Australia is climate change, which my colleague does not fully accept with my regret. And that's why our irresponsible behavior is. Unaccountable behavior toward the creation that we are humbled to accept and take good care of. Yes, it's climate change, it's CO2 emissions. This is our irresponsible behavior, which also leads to these consequences, such as the expansion of the crust, such as the fact that animal species are dying out, that nature around us is changing, and changes are happening so extremely quickly. So I wanted to ask that we approach creation with humility. Let us approach the situation of a new infection with humility, and let us act responsibly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u23	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u24	Mr President, I have already said in my speech that I am awaiting criticism for my views and that I am able to face them. I just didn't exactly expect it to be like this any second. I insist that we look for cause and that Šumava is the zero patient. And the irresponsibleness that my colleague spoke of can be found in the meeting of Minister Bursík in 2007 with whom he left fallen wood after Kyrill orcan, and thus let the barking calamity begin. I met him the other day. To this day, I remember the flash in his eyes when he realized that the calamity would actually help him push through the impactless zones and expand them in the Šumava National Park and that he wouldn't have to do so much again, and he would be able to have the wilderness in Sumava. It is simply not possible to say in one voice, in one mouth, that barking is part of nature, that nature can handle it and that we must leave it, and on the other hand, we cannot say that barking is public enemy number one and that it is necessary to fight it with all means. This is not possible, it is a division in thought, which may also have the effect of the situation that is in the thinking of those foresters who hear on the one hand "the tree is part of nature," on the other hand they still have encoded "the tree is your prosecutor" as one of the professors of the forestry school in Písek once said. They don't know or they don't know what to think. They were afraid that they would intervene forcefully, that they would be reprimanded, that they would not advance in harmony with nature. At the same time, of course, he is afraid not to follow the ancient pattern of his ancestors against the crust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u25	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mr Daniel Pawlas apologizes from 9.00 to 12.00 on the occasion of a doctor's visit, Mr Aleš Juchelka apologizes until 1150 hours on work grounds, Mrs Eva Fialová apologises between 14.30 and 16.30 hours on work grounds, Mr Karel Krejza apologizes because of illness throughout today's day. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u26	Thank you. Mr President, Members, Members of the Government, I have applied with priority rights because I would not be able to respond in two minutes to this demagogic speech by Mrs Langšádlová, with whom I fundamentally disagree, because, of course, this climate change has taken place, and the previous speaker, Mr Jan Zahradník, knows very well what we are talking about when we talk about Sumava. Why were we trying to make a law on the National Park of Sumava? If anyone doesn't realize the unsolving and tying themselves to the trees, so that the foresters couldn't remove the bark-damaged trees, it meant deforestation of Sumava, water reduction or water supply in Sumava. The surface temperature on the deforested part reaches over 40 °C, whereas in the wooded part it does not reach even 20 degrees on the ground. How's the vapor? So do we realize what happened? This is not only the expansion of the spruce-eating icy, but, of course, it is the impact of economic, ecological and disastrous for the citizen. And if we don't deal with this, we're not going to do any interventions that I think of as being the right one used by a fellow Zahradník because it's really a disease. This is the kind of disease that spreads through the Czech landscape. We used to have two thirds of our territory wooded, and healthy forests. Let's look at the woods today, whether it's in the Highlands, whether it's in the Sumava. And if you look at the crust process, from one side of Sumava, from the other side of the Highlands, the South Bohemian Region is closed at this moment. When you drive down the D3 motorway, you can see exactly what the Mojský les looks like. It's all dry. And it used to be a beautiful place where the citizens of České Budějovice and the surrounding area went for a walk, because it was, forgive me, only four kilometers from the city center. So she's got this climate change thing going on. We can't make excuses for her. It's nothing objective. This is actually the subjective fault of those who ignore how to care for the forest and promote interests that have nothing to do with maintaining our wealth of forests. And when I look at the fact that new water tanks are to be built, whether in the Giant Mountains or in Šumava, I hear again that it is a concrete lobby. Anyone who looks at the project itself can see that it is not concrete tanks that will occupy large areas, but that it will be dams of small, smaller dams in places of original water cannons. According to experts, the drought threatens the Czech Republic precisely because there is little water on the upper streams, that if we don't help it, if we don't build the detention facilities, the water will keep drying and there will be even less water on the lower streams of the rivers. We're struggling in Decin, if we can even send the ships we made to the sea after the Elbe and transport them, the ones we made with us. Why? Because there's no water. And there's no water, because the springs are missing from the upper rivers, where the water has stayed and flowed away for a long time. And if it evaporates and doesn't drain, then, of course, it has an impact on the whole republic. And I'm convinced that if we're going to build it on Blue or in Pec pod Sněžkou, it's still important to all of us. And let's face it, it's not possible to protect Šumava National Park, Podyjí National Park in the same way. Let's be happy that National Park Podyjí gradually bought the land from private people, from municipalities, the forest land, and that 95 percent is owned by the National Park. He will feed and he can manage the national park. I think it's the right course of action. That's how it's supposed to be done. There is something else in Sumava, where the park is several times and we are unable to solve without a specific law the protection of both the ownership of the municipalities and the state, but neither the natural persons, because the protection, averaged on Act No. 114, i.e. about conservation of nature and landscape, just doesn't sit on such a large territory. [[larger]] And the ratio between the care plan and the forestry plan has not been resolved to this day. We simply cannot afford in Sumava - and everyone will tell you that, whether he is small or large, whether he is a forester or just the people of Sumava, and whether he is in one or the political party is irrelevant. The important thing is that Šumava National Park cannot have 50 percent of the territory in the protection of the first zone and nothing will be done there. It's just not possible anymore from the natural conditions. And if we don't deal with it as a whole specific, like, forgive me, the natural treasure, but the treasure that people built. That's where 500 years of hospitable land was. Five years! And if anybody's talking about extinct communities or whether they're talking about that or that, it's obvious that the management was an axe, growing, and the forest was growing. And that's reality. And say we don't realize climate change. So let's say whether we're contributing to it or not, whether we're willing or not, we're not willing to make that cut, that now we need to deal with it, at a time when it's being mined, we need to solve the problem. We have the consequences of two more Orcans, and we have to solve them. Yes, but now we have a time ahead of us when, in addition to solving the outcome of the orcan, we will have to find the means, find the forces, even the physical forces, to replant the trees. And that's the point of this point. It's not a question of a political dispute. That's the question of whether we're going to give the truth to those who say that nature will help itself if it's not true or help itself in a hundred years' time, or if we're going to help ourselves as our ancestors to keep it not just for future generations, even for the past, and that it's not going to be a wasteland here. [[10.00 hours]] So please, any excuses for climate change, don't be mad at me, that's something I can't accept. And I'm the general one, I'm sorry, bullshit, I'm sorry about the expression, I'm hard to hear. I'm normally a calm person, but this makes me wonder that anyone can even say that! And I am saying this quite frankly here: I have dealt with many environmental ministers about the Šumava National Park and I must say that the only one who was really willing to do something about it was Miloš Kužvart, who had been with us for expert meetings, and we gradually took step by step the bill that could have prepared something that could have worked for 20 years today. But everyone else looked at it from the perspective of activists, not from the perspective of nature and landscape. And that's what bothers me! That's what bothers me. And I have to agree with my fellow Zahradník that if anyone gave it a crown, it was former minister Bursík who destroyed what he touched! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u27	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Mrs Langšádlová. After that, Mr Martinů.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President through the President, that is not fair, what you have said to me. I wasn't talking demagogically, I was just trying to get a broader picture of what's going on in our woods. I am not completely questioning this to learn from the mistakes made to take measures to contain water, but the essence of the problem lies not only in the spread of bark, but also in the fact that our groundwater level is decreasing, for example, and this also makes a significant contribution to the extinction of our forests. And so please consider that the reduction in precipitation has an effect on this, and that indeed - and you have said it several times - climate change has a basis in the human activity. Yes, he does. And one of the impacts is really less water. One doesn't have to be a climateologist to look at this winter and the winter before, even in our short life, that there is a big change. And the risk of a significant human contributing to this change is here. And it is our responsibility, of course, to adapt our behavior to the new situation by holding water, but at the same time to look at the essence. That is, when a fellow Zahradník spoke of finding patient number zero, let's look at the substance. We really do make a person's life a lot worse today, and for that one really doesn't have to be a zoologist. Look at the data on how many species are disappearing, how the landscape changes in our country, and what impact it all has.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u29	Thank you. Mr Martinů, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u30	Good day again. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the last six years since 2014, 100 percent of the water in the Czech Republic has not rained in the long term. And look at the temperatures! The warmest two years - 2018 and 2019 with a temperature of 9.6 and 9.5 degrees are the warmest years in the history of the Czech Republic. And when we look into the '90s and around 2000, there were normally temperatures of 6.5 degrees. We've raised the temperature by three degrees! It's a perfectly fatal problem with the water drain. And it's all about water. And insects? According to recent research in Germany and Europe, we have lost 70 percent of insects in the last 10, 20 years. It's really all about water! We spent 100 years driving out water, meliorations, regulation, intensive industrial agriculture. And the woods? Please, I heard here first that two thirds of the Czech Republic were covered in woods. According to all available information and information from the Czech Forests from 2017, it is claimed that the current area of forests is the largest in the history of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u31	Thank you. These were factual remarks, and it is Mr Kott's turn in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear colleagues, to the discussion, I would add about that much to the technical comments. I think that all forest owners, the private ones, treat their property in humility and respect, but, of course, we also had significant restrictions on how to approach the cruststorm. And the biggest problem was definitely with large owners, which are the Forests of the Czech Republic and Military Forests and Farms. So I think that by correcting whether by a parliamentary amendment or by a government amendment to the forest law, we have gone the right way and allowed these great owners to do as those old forest farmers had previously been used to. So it's just some reaction to the fact that the owners aren't being polite or humble. I think that everyone who has the forest, and I see it around me in the Highlands, is sure to be humbled to the forest, so that there are no more significant losses. And since I started with the Highlands, the situation is not good there, and the assumption is that even in the future, of course, it will not be any better, and there are two options. The optimistic solution is that there will be up to 28 million cubic meters of wood. And the pessimistic one, there's 40 million cc's. So it's all one to one and a half times the reality of 2019. And that was twice what we used to get from the Highlands. That's for the Highlands. And now I would like to comment on what the Minister mentioned here. Thank you very much for the regular monthly announcement by the Ministry of Professional Public and not only for forestry. It is certainly worth mentioning that in 2018 and 2019 more than CZK 2 billion were given for the reconstruction of the forest. That PGRLF earmarked 300 million for investment loans for the purchase of forest and nursery equipment. And what I think is good is that the Ministry of Regional Development, in connection with the barking calamity, also plans to support the reconstruction of roads that are damaged or damaged in connection with mining and the transport of barking wood. What I would like to ask for is certainly a greater synergy and an effort to increase the Ministry of Agriculture chapter by additional funds beyond the budget approved and greater synergies, whether the Ministry of Environment or the Ministry of Regional Development or even the Ministry of Regional Development. Department of Transport. And the last thing I'd like to ask for some help from the Department of Agriculture is the temporary landfill of barkwood. As the control authorities, the State Agricultural Intervention Fund is quite aggressive in its checks and in its efforts to ensure a true situation where foresters or forest owners store timber temporarily, these places must be marked under the LIPP and the grant aid is reduced. So, given that these matters will certainly continue, I would like to ask the Ministry to remedy this issue and support those companies that, at some point, without even knowing that the temporary landfill is being made there, are being cut short and are being damaged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u33	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr Zdeněk Podal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues, maybe some of you will remember, two years ago, I drove through North Moravia myself, where I saw the barking calamity coming in, which I informed both the House and the subcommittee on forestry. The situation seemed disastrous to me and I assumed that it would spread throughout the Republic. But I don't want to be the one who's gonna say it today. I knew it. Of course, no one anticipated this calamity, but we have it here. Another thing I asked for at the initiative of the foresters, those foresters said: We are experts, give us what we need. Give us the money, give us the technology and prepare the laws so that we can handle this calamity. I understand that he's the most important thing. I'm not going to deal with numbers, we all know how wide this calamity is. In 2019 - only at random - 11 065 million m3 of barkwood. These were the Forests of the Czech Republic. I'd rather turn to the future. It's kind of like coronavirus. No one's gonna help us. We have to help ourselves. At this point, we should throw away party shirts, which is why I would like to load some more. The kůrovcový calamity is due to climate change and also to the inappropriate composition of our forests. This year will make this situation even worse. The drought has been reflected since January, and thus the extent of the calamity in the woods will be grazed. The crisis is already in seven regions. However, I want to assure everyone that the Agricultural Committee, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forestry Sub-Committee - meeting on 31 March in Hradec Králové with the participation of forest experts - are doing everything possible to help our foresters cope with the calamity. Through political parties, it is an effort to help manage the situation. Even China has kept that word last year and is buying a large part of barkwood. Finally, I would like to thank all the politicians for the efforts made to eliminate this calamity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u35	Thank you, too. And the debate is attended by Mr Juránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me address you all, and I want to tell you something that really follows my life and my family's life over the centuries, and I want to put it in the present context. I mean, foresters and climate change. You know, an old proverb says it's better to light a candle than swear at the dark. And I want to say for myself and for foresters that it's better to plant one tree than to swear on a crust. And to look at things at the same time - and that is what I'm adding to my modified proverb - to look at things in the past at the same time without learning from them. What I want to tell you is the testimony of those who are silent. Because how do you want to talk flamingly about things that have been happening in the woods for about a hundred years? How are you gonna make a difference in the woods from one day to the next? It's not really possible at all. Those steps that we will take today, even within our Chamber of Deputies, and what we will call the Ministry, are actually a matter none of us who are here in the Chamber of Deputies will live to see, the results. We can even say that in many ways we will not even know where these decisions will lead. And neither will the Minister of Agriculture nor any other agricultural ministers that we will still experience. And neither will the director of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Therefore, it is extremely important to just look at the fact that the routing is given the shortest possible time, and that is ten years. And that is why I would pay great attention to what we will do in the next ten years, and I would leave it first in those foresters, in those experts who are highly valued in the world. Now I'd split it by looking at what the foresters did with us and what they did in the world. And I'm gonna try so you can go right there if you decide you want to see what's going on there. At this point, we're talking about Sumava and her confiding in the foresters. I want to give you a specific example of what the Ore Mountains looked like in the last century and what our foresters did with them. Please, no one's stressing that our foresters did this. And please go over there and see what Ore Mountains look like now, and look at history. It can be searched, fortunately now even using Googl, how hideous the Ore Mountains looked before the foresters got their hands on them. That's what we have right around the corner. And I'm asking for the same solution. At that time it was necessary to entrust it to experts, foresters, then Mendel University of Forestry, and it was necessary to create a crisis situation and to address this area in a crisis way. I also intercede for the situation that is now taking place in the Czech Republic. And now, please, I would like to take a look at the world, first of all, at what we interfere with climate change as foresters. And I want to stress that Czech foresters are there. For some who are there, I mean Czech and Moravian foresters. But that's not the point. The important thing is that if we want to change the climate of this country, we need to do something about the Amazon forests. The only successful expedition that works there is an expedition from us from the Czech Republic. For the second decade, at the borders of Peru and Brazil, trees have been planted there, affecting the climate of the earth. If you look at it, there really are two lungs in the world. It's simplified, but one lung is in the Amazon and the other is in Siberia. And we both need to pay due attention. I mean, and stress again that they are Czech foresters who are the only successful in the expeditions that are there trying to save the rainforests in the Amazon. Second thing. I want to mention that there are many countries in which our foresters have succeeded and saved them. And I just want to mention the person who saved the forests of the Banata in Romania with his life's work to receive the highest Romanian medal just before his death. What foresters can do is that they show which things have long-term validity and which short-term validity. And this is where we're going to talk about the water tanks being planned to be built. And I say yes to build them up. But from the point of view of what I'm talking about here, the 100-year cycle, I'm pointing out that this is a very small and short-term measure. And once again, I'm going to tell you to come and see what a long-term measure is. [[10.20 hours]] The long-term measure was made in Brittany. So it wasn't Czech foresters there, but if you look at Brittany, which was actually a shin that is comparable to Sumava at the moment, then look at what it did to plant forests there, and also what forests are planted there, and who of you will want to make sure of it, really plan a week in Brittany, which is not exactly a tourist-rich region, but it is a region that has been rescued by foresters. It is also described, by the way, in a wonderful book that is about reality, and it is called the muž who planted trees. If you read it and go to Brittany, it will also be a good guide on how to deal with the situation in the long term. And I am stressing, in the long run, that we will not live to see it. And I understand that it is important for all of us how the nearest elections will turn out, and in recent years, elections are every year, and that is the disadvantage of foresters. That's the disadvantage of the foresters, because if you trust them with it, you'll see very little in your political career, and that's only if the career is very long. Certainly not in one term. You are unable to assess whether the situation has succeeded or failed. That is why it is necessary to approach this with a certain degree of confidence in those who understand it and are both the body and soul and the heart of the foresters. I'll do it again. Please, let's try to take those little steps that won't be seen, that maybe our grandsons and granddaughters will live to see, maybe not even you, let's really take one step at a time, just plant at least one tree each time, depending on how each of us can, and let's try to move these things. But let's always look at it with that look of ten years that we can decide about right now, but also the look of the hundred years that none of us will live to see. So I ask once again and finally that we all take to heart the proverb that it is better to plant one tree than to swear on the bark and to adopt one meaningful resolution than to remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u37	I thank you and there is one factual point. Mr. Holík wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of my previous speaker, Juránek. I think his words should be planted in gold, because we are really destroying rainforests from one side here, and from the other side, we are the foresters he praises here today, and I stand behind him fully, we have demoted them from that position of forester to the position of official. In the past, she cared for all the forests or was the organization of the Czechoslovak state forests and those people really lived with the forest. At present, part of this has been sold out to stockholders who don't care about the plant coverage of our surface of the earth, but it depends on profit. So once again, Mr. Juránek, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u39	That was a factual point, and Mr Bendl is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would not be able to do this in technical terms, because I would like to respond to some of my honourable colleagues, so once again in the general debate. I would also like to express my gratitude for having this discussion at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that the Czech Republic, apart from the coronavirus from which we all probably already have hives, has no greater problem today than the fact that we are suffering from water shortages, although it is not very visible in these rainy days that we are experiencing, but it mentioned a number of previous speakers that we are in bad shape with groundwater, so I am really glad that we can talk about this and that we can exchange views on how we see this thing, how we feel and what we might possibly be able to or where we can direct our efforts in the various legislative measures that await us. Soon we will be discussing the law on water and I believe that other legislative measures will come, the construction law and other legislation that can help with water management in the territory, and if we take into account the fact that we have little water, then we will do something for future generations. My colleague Juránek here said quite rightly that we will no longer live to see the outcome of our behavior, probably the generation that I believe will come after us, just as today's generation is not entirely to blame for what this situation looks like today. In the spirit of this argument, I want to say that even if we praise our foresters a thousand times at this time, they also deal with a forest that was founded a long time ago, and even if there are exceptions where I might pull some individuals out of their ears, I also think our foresters take good care of the forest. That is why I was a little offended by what Mrs Langšádlová, a colleague of mine, said here, which I like, we have known each other for many years. Her attack on a fellow Zahradník wasn't entirely fair because I was experiencing it at the time. I think time has shown that we have destroyed nature so much that it can't help itself often, and that we need to find tools to help it. At that time, the authorities, and I was quite close to it, very much called for - both the communal level and the regional - to help the forest to stop the crust, and it was not answered. I've seen it on a number of levels here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think it was a mistake, and it is one of the mistakes that we should learn from, that, simply, where nature cannot help itself, we should intervene to help the balance within nature, because we are very involved in the fact that nature is not in balance. The current situation has been formed for a very long time, and I will just mention the numbers, because sometimes only a hundred times the repeated truth will become true. What the President of the KSČM said here that we always had these woods here, so I'm going to reminisce about the facts that are traceable, and no one came up with anything better, that in 1750 we had a million hectares of forests here, and in 2000 we registered 2.6 million hectares, and that's not all because something doesn't have a forest category, but it's overgrown areas, so we're quite safely moving over 3 million hectares. We were in the past, in the ancient past, countries of mud, swamps, etc., there were no forests everywhere, and it is also necessary to look at the history from this point of view. And in that history it happened that we planted - but I wouldn't blame it on the ancestors, they simply planted spruce because of it, and it was mentioned here also by colleague Zahradník that spruce wood is crucial for the construction itself, it is important construction material, and so it was an effort to manage, because it was true in the past that whoever had the forest had the financial resources that he could help with in case the farmer suddenly had some financial crisis or wanted to invest, then he gained the wood from the forest, gained the finance and was part of the development of his company, company etc. [[10.30 hours]] The situation is fundamentally different today. Having a forest today is almost a punishment. Everyone who has a forest knows they won't actually make money off it. And it is our duty as a society and as a Chamber of Deputies to do our utmost to help where that forest has a chance to live, to help invest from taxpayers' resources and to help them. What I don't want to argue with, what Mr. Juránek said. Yes, planting trees is right, but I add to that - where they have a chance at life. And we should know that. Our ancestors planted, gave us a gift that they planted in the wrong kind of monoculture in places where they don't have a chance to live today. And we can't just talk about it, it's not just a debate today about how many more new ponds and water tanks we're gonna make. Because we all know, or I suppose we all know that the pond is filled with water from the surrounding area. If the land doesn't catch the water in the surrounding area, we can make a thousand ponds if there's no chance it'll fill them up, the ponds, then we've wasted some time again. That's why I'm calling for a debate on vapor. He's part of the guy who said that, Mr. Martinů...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u41	Good morning, honourable Members. I'd like my colleague Bendl to finish his speech in peace. So far, the last one entered in the general debate. So I'm asking you to let him finish his performance in a dignified environment. If you're still discussing another subject, please be in the foyer. Just wait a little longer. I believe that colleagues will not only be sympathetic to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. This is an important subject for me. I understand that maybe somebody doesn't have to care, but I have been living through it for months, maybe years already, the situation, and I don't care, so thank you for the peace of mind in the House. We're... Someone here said very well that there is always a need to learn - I feel that Mrs Langšádlová said so, but I think that in a way everyone else said so - to identify the mistakes and try, because it will not be tens, but thousands of different measures that we will have to take in that territory to return water to the landscape. That's quite true. In a moment, we'll be discussing a government bill on land modifications. By the way, I consider these to be one of the key measures that the State should make for land adjustments to run and work, for the Ministry of Agriculture to devote itself to them at least as intensively as it has been, but rather more, and for the Ministry of the Environment to understand land adjustments as one of the tools to help not only the management within the territory, but also the landscape to better functioning and to better living. Because the mistakes we made in the past - I may repeat them because I said them here at my first performance last week when we opened that point, as a person who suggested this point at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, that we had been driving water out of the country for a very long time. It's the intensive agriculture, the meliorations that we've done, the draining, the building of uniform sewers that actually seduced water, the rainbow, from the land straight into the streams and rivers, without having a chance to contain them in that territory, to clean the sewage in good faith, but we've also downloaded the rainbow there, and it turns out to be a measure that wasn't very wise. We didn't deal with for example. Anti-erosive measures in the management of farmers on those large areas, so today, particularly wind erosion over the decades of its operation, has caused us to often farm on shavings. It's also the fertilization system, etc. etc. You could talk about it for hours and hours. We were betting the wrong structure of the woods. That's why I know that the foresters are already making a big difference. The Ministry of Agriculture is changing this approach, that's right. However, I call again to consider where to plant these forests again so that they have a chance at life as such. One last thing. The man who planted the trees, Jean Giono - whether I read it correctly or if I remember it, one of my favorite books I often return to. We can learn a lot from this. However, it still remains - let us plant trees where they have a chance of life, and let us do it in humility. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry if I've held some up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u43	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, Mr Martinů, with a point of fact. And that is the last application so far in the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u44	Dear colleagues, allow me a few more numbers around the spruce. In 1750 we had 1 million 100,000 hectares of forest, which was only 11 percent of the spruce, which is about 100, 120 thousand. Now we have officially 2 million 670 thousand hectares of forest, 52 percent of which is about 1.5 million. Ten times that. Ten times as many spruce as we have in some 250 years. According to all the research that has been done and that we have forgotten, it is known that the 80-year-old spruce crop to be vital to work to cool the air requires 600 to 700 millimeters of water, with the fact that, of course, both warming and water is more and more. So listen: 80-year-old spruce crop requires 600 to 700 millimeters of water, and to us in 80 percent of our Czech Republic, Czech territory, it rains about 500, 600 millimeters of water when it rains 100%. And it is now known, or many people know, who want to know that up to 40 percent of the year's rainfall will not fall through treetops, including spruce. Up to 40 per cent of the year's rainfall will not fail. Let's try to make a sum total. So the spruce requires 600 millimeters of water, maybe 700. It rains in many places 500 millimeters, of which 40 percent, 200 millimeters, doesn't fall to the ground, it remains on the needles and it's in the fumes in a few hours, so it only hits 60 percent, 300 millimeters, and the spruces require 600 to 700. And we also need water for the bottom waters, for the springs, for the streams, for the drain. I don't know, but I'd like to ask the ministers to do this - I'm an ordinary person, but something doesn't seem logical here, because something doesn't seem logical here. It just doesn't make sense. 600 millimeters, 500 millimeters rain, 40 per cent millimeters remain on needles. And we wonder if we have a landscape without water? And I don't want to repeat the other things... [[Time warning]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u45	I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. Before I ask the final words - the Minister is interested and the rapporteur is interested. Kateřina Valachová has a replacement card number 16. Before I give the Minister the floor, I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies: from 14.30 to 16 for business reasons, Mr Stanislav Grospič, from 11 to 13. 3. Apologizes for health reasons Karel Schwarzenberg, Marek Výborný from 9.20 to 11.30 for working reasons, Mrs Ožanová between 1045 and 12 o'clock for work reasons and Ondřej Benešík 11 March from 11 to 13 o'clock for work reasons. Now, the final word of the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u46	So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only if you allow me very briefly. First of all, I would like to thank all those who are interested in this issue, because the situation in the woods, and not only in the woods, but also in agriculture, is very complex because of pests, and this is not just a bark, a beaver or a vole and other things. So I want to thank everyone across the political spectrum for your interest in this, even for the performances that were here. [[10.40 hours]] Just a few things. As regards the honourable Mr Holomčík. Dear Member, this is repeated over and over again. I'm sorry, but we're the reasons that happened, as I said in my report, they sent you a lot of things. I'm not looking for a culprit. I'm not going back ten, fifteen, a hundred years. For me, effective operational economic aid to forests as such, non-state owners, ensuring conditions for future forests, so that our generations have forests here. It's more important to me than coming back all the time looking for a culprit. We know what caused it, but I don't think we want to go over it over and over again. I'm ready to meet you. As regards the new strategy -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u47	Minister, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm really asking you to keep your voice down. If you are discussing a subject other than the subject of this point, it is crucially in the foyer! Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u48	Thank you. That there may have been a mistake in the past, etc., probably yes, I will not be here to deal with the transformation of the Forests of the Czech Republic thirty years ago. I can't figure it out today. I just want to say that we have adopted a new strategy for the Forests of the Czech Republic. If you look at the number of units we're competing, at what prices we're doing, how much barkwood we're mining, how much growth there is, I said all the numbers in my performance. I'm just pointing out here again that we're increasing from 80,000 hectares of direct-controlled races to 130 thousand. We're going to trade now an increase of 25 percent more of our own wood. All of this will be reflected in the company's profits. And we're creating something for the future, so that forests and foresters aren't just contract writers. We have a lot of programs. You know we have a program. We return trees to forests, diversity of forests, etc., I've talked about everything. At the same time, we are preparing other things. We want to build more groves for foresters, etc., which means we want to return the foresters to the forest. I stress that we are increasing the sales of forest from year to year by 25% of our own activities. Mr Zahradník here mentioned the Crisis Management Act. We agree on that. I just want to say that the crisis management law is set on short-term disasters, such as flood, windstorms, but it's not set on a crust-like calamity. We, the emergency measures after the amendment to the Forest Law, when I thanked the Chamber of Deputies that we could have changed the forest law by the proposal, we could have taken measures of a general nature, those are the territorialisations and other things, so we are actually dealing with it thanks to you through measures of a general nature. And as for the timber sales, we're dealing with the timber sales, Mr. President. He handed it over here he said, through various companies, we shipped more than a million cc's of wood to China, etc. We are talking with the Ministry of Industry and Trade about energy use not only of muddy wood, whether it is for local heat production or for other products. Madam Members, I want to thank you once again, and I believe that we will meet more times on this subject, and I would also like to say that I have agreed with my colleagues during today's negotiations that we will hold a seminar on what has been said by my colleague Bendl regarding the forest fumes, the forest dimensions, what we will do about it in the future and how we will work with it, how it affects the landscape. So what I'm saying here is, on a microphone, we're gonna do a technical seminar to discuss these things. Thank you again and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u49	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture, for the final word. Now, the rapporteur's final word and we will move on to a detailed debate. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, I would just like to sum up the fact that eight Members and Members have spoken in the general debate, ten Members and Members with factual remarks. Let me point out historically that, when discussing the first part of these issues in the merged debate, I have announced and also handed out the motion for a resolution that I am proposing. In the detailed debate, which I hereby declare to be rapporteur with priority rights, I will also amend this proposal and I will introduce you to it in detail. I am just saying that, in that last part, we have enriched the proposal by Mr Bendl, who is making another proposal today, which, as we have agreed, will also be included in this proposal. I also have an updated motion for a resolution from Mr Holomčík. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u51	I thank the rapporteur for the final word. I am opening up a detailed debate. The rapporteur has already indicated that he wants to take advantage of the rapporteur's priority right and make a motion for a resolution. A colleague of Holomčík and then a colleague of Bendl will be ready. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u52	Thank you. Madam and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution has a total of four parts. In that first part of the Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to strengthen the budget chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture in addition to the approved State budget for 2020 for additional funds earmarked for the mitigation of the impact of bark sludge in forests and to support the subsequent restoration of forests. In the second part, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Agriculture 1. on the presentation of material for the Government's deliberations, which will quantify the need for additional funds as referred to in point Even this resolution, in the context of the time-frame for summing up the necessary data for 2019; 2. on the coordination of cooperation with the ministries concerned and other central authorities of the state administration in addressing the current barking calamity in the forests in the Czech Republic; 3. establishing the necessary conditions for owners and forest managers for effective protection of forests against pests - there is, please nicely, a change compared to the original proposal that I gave you to the clubs during the last discussion, where the monothematic crust has been replaced by the word polythematic, i.e. pest, because there are also other pests, namely the large-headed bullskin - and for the successful restoration of new, more resilient forests; 4. We ask the Ministry of Agriculture to create legislative conditions for owners and forest managers, which take into account the impact of objective changes in natural conditions on their legal obligations in restoring the forest; 5. We are putting in a new proposal by Mr Bendl, when we ask the Ministry of Agriculture to replant the forest in the area of the Czech Republic in order to take account of the fact that there are sites where the necessary amount of precipitation will not fall in the long term, and the hope that trees will live to be of an adult age is thus greatly reduced, and we ask the Minister of Agriculture for the analysis of measures against the reduction of water vapor from the territory in order to retain water in the country until 30. 6th of this year. But this is, please nicely, a proposal that repeats itself, and I am more interested in Part III, where the Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment 1. on the processing of the analysis of possible measures against the reduction of water vapour from soil - not only from forest soil, but from land - on calumny shavings in order to retain water in the forest within 30 days. 6th of this year. Finally, the fourth part, i.e. IV, of the Chamber of Deputies, asks the Ministry of Environment for synergies in creating conditions for the effective protection of forests against pests, within the framework of the activities of state authorities in the nature protection and decision-making sector. So much, Mrs and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which I am putting forward and which is also consulted with Mr Bendl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u53	Thank you. Now, Mr Radek Holomčík, in a detailed debate. Once again, I would like to point out to the House that there is a need to create an environment here, where one who has been given the floor can make a proposal in a sufficiently dignified environment. Moreover, this is a motion for a resolution that we will be voting on. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u54	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to read the revised resolution. Before I load it, I would like to add a statement of reasons in response to what the Minister of Agriculture has said. To me - and I repeat - it's not about finding the culprits. My point is, from a wide range of sources, we just have information that there has been some imperfection in the state administration of forests, in the protection of forests, etc. And not only do eco-terrorists say that, as they say, but we have a report from the SAO, we have a report from the inspection carried out by the Czech Environmental Inspection in the second half of 2017 - and a zero response. [[10.50 hours]] When we started this term here, we promised we'd do the work here according to our best knowledge and conscience. And I just want the information that they show me - either they tell Holomčík is wrong, everything's fine, the forest administration works, the Department of Agriculture works great in relation to the state enterprise, and I'm very happy to apologize for what I've ever said here, and I'm gonna sleep quietly because I'm gonna know that the Ministry is doing everything that can be done. Or it won't be. I don't know. But all I want is just information, information that I would expect someone to do their job with care to a proper economy, they just automatically have to have. We don't have them. So I'll take the liberty of reading my resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. requests from the Ministry of Agriculture 1. Forensic analysis of the emergence of outbreaks and subsequent spread of bark sludge at the time of the state's assets in Moravia and Silesia, since 2012 and using orthophotomap, data on forest records, data on defence and protection measures taken against barkworms, data on the method of sale of the affected timber, data on contractual partners of the Forests of the Czech Republic who mined this timber and bought it from the Forests of the Czech Republic, and finally using data on contractual penalties for non-compliance with contractual arrangements in the field of forest protection against bark granted by the Forests of the Czech Republic; [[respectively. infected crops]] 2. analysis of the costs associated with the necessary extension of the number of forest plants, respectively. with an increase of its own mining and transport, if applicable. even storage capacities usable in the fight against bark sludge; 3. carrying out an analysis of the social, environmental and economic impacts of the implementation of the so-called Wooden books and the follow-up Concept of Strategic Development of the Forests of the Czech Republic for the years 2015-2019, in particular the effects in the calamity of affected areas, and the presentation of the results of this analysis; 4. Implementation of the inventory of the current stock of wood in forest growth in the forest management of forest forests of the Czech Republic and evaluation of the results of this inventory in relation to data of forest accounting of forests of the Czech Republic, respectively. the data on the mining operations carried out and the data on the forest stock of timber in accordance with the forest management plans in force from 2012 onwards; 5. Implementation of the inventory of results of science and research financed from the Grant Service of the Forests of the Czech Republic in connection with the introduction of these verified knowledge into operational practice in forests in the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic since 2012. [[Technical note to Mrs Stenographer - after I have read this resolution, I will give it to you printed.]] Next II. asks the Ministry of Defence to: 1. the implementation and results of the forensic analysis of the occurrence of primary outbreaks and the subsequent spread of bark sludge in time to the Military Forests and Goods Division of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, Lipník nad Bečvou, since 2012 and using orthophotomap, data on forest records, data on defence and protection measures taken against barks, data on the method of sale of the affected timber, data on contractual partners of the Military Forests and goods that mined and removed these timber, and finally data on possible contractual penalties for non-compliance with contractual arrangements in the field of forest protection against bark granted by the undertaking to its contractual partners; [[respectively. infected crops]] 2. analysis of the ecological and economic impacts of the change in the trade strategy of the Military Forests and Goods in the area of Lipník nad Bečvou division, which was announced in December 2014, substantially increased the volume of timber sold through electronic and presentational auctions, respectively. auction "on standato', in cooperation with the company Lesa ČR; 3. carrying out an inventory of the current stock of forest forests in the calamity forest management of the division VLS Lipník nad Bečvou and evaluating the results of this inventory in relation to data of forest economic records, respectively. data on the mining operations carried out and data on timber stocks in accordance with forest management plans in force from 2012 onwards; III. asks the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Defence to submit the required documents and results to the Chamber of Deputies by 31 August 2020 in points I and II; IV. asks the Prime Minister to revise the existing business models of the company Forest of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, and Military forests and goods of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, and to inform the Chamber of Deputies by 21 August 2020.' That's all, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u55	Thank you and now Mr Petr Bendl in a detailed debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u56	I have listened patiently to the rapporteur, and he has incorporated both of my proposals into the overall motion for a resolution, so I have nothing to add just to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-001-999.u57	Thank you. In that case, I am asking who else to discuss in detail. I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is interest in the final words after a detailed debate. It's not like that. We can therefore end the merged debate, both general and detailed, and we will proceed to the vote on individual points.
