ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u1	9. Government bill on one-off pensioner contribution in 2020 /German press 997/ - second reading For the apologized Minister of Labour under the authority of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová justify this proposal. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u2	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I present, on behalf of the Government and also on behalf of the Minister, who cannot be here because he is in quarantine, before the beginning of the second reading, a brief justification for the bill, which monitors the strengthening of income levels of pensioners and which is primarily a response to the growth of pensioners' living costs this year and to uncertain economic and social developments in the next period following the COVID-19 pandemic, which is particularly threatening our seniors. [[17.40 hours]] I think the reasons here fell from both Minister Maláčová's mouth and mine before first reading, so I would just say that this is an extraordinary increase in the income of pensioners. It is proposed in the form of a special state levy, namely a one-off contribution which would be paid to the pension payer and, according to the draft law, CZK 5,000 would be paid in December 2020. Any pensioner would receive this amount regardless of the amount of his pension. In the event of payment of multiple pensions, the pensioner would receive this amount only once. The conditions for entitlement to the contribution shall be laid down taking into account the month of payment and shall be binding on November 2020. For example, the form of a one-off contribution proved to be effective in previous years. It was in 2016, when this one-off contribution was paid on the basis of Act No. 381/2015 Coll. As regards the expenditure on the contribution, it is the sum of a maximum estimated amount of CZK 15 billion that would have been spent this year, which means that expenditure will not occur in the coming years. In view of the seriousness of the proposal, social impact, I therefore ask for support during the following legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 997/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, now take the floor and inform us of the committee's discussion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say that the first reading of this proposal took place on 15. 9th at the 58th meeting. The House did not agree to the hearing so that it could agree with the bill in the first reading. The bill, as you said, has been directed to the Committee on Social Policy, which has discussed this law on 24 September 2020 and has adopted a resolution that I will now read to you. "192. Resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 56th meeting of 24 September 2020 on the Government Bill on one-off pensioner contribution in 2020, House press 997. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Dana Roučková, Jana Pastuchová's report and after the debate of the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's draft bill on a one-off pensioner contribution in 2020, the House's press 997; 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical amendments accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura is entered in the general debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long advocated increasing disability and old-age pensions. Therefore, we will, of course, support the proposal for a one-off allowance to pensioners, since it is simply impossible to live on the lowest pensions in particular. In this context, I must point out a sad government reality. Instead of approving the draft law from the SPD pen, the government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM agreed on the legalization of a minimum dignified pension in the amount of the border of poverty, which is less than CZK 15,000 a month, and only from this amount of merit, the government only proposes one-time addition of several thousand. But that doesn't solve the system's miserable situation of pensioners. The solution is the SPD proposal for a minimum dignified pension. By the way, it applies in a large part of Europe. Of course, under the conditions of years worked or for those who could not work due to proven invalidity. So, of course, according to our bill, so-called inadaptables would not be entitled to this basic dignified pension. Before the election, every government is trying to flatter the elderly with some extraordinary one-time valorization. But oddly enough, some stable minimum dignified border is being rejected by all government parties from left and right. The reason is clear. Pensioners are then dependent on valorizations and are then grateful for every addition. And yet it's just a political game by politicians. Because seniors should have pensions at a decent minimum level automatically. But then politicians wouldn't be proud to be added. For the SPD movement, I repeat that disabled and old-age pensioners need to be sure of a dignified life. In short, I will repeat the SPD's view of systemic changes in pensions. Pension is not a bonus, but for the vast majority of beneficiaries, it is basically a social benefit. For people who have worked for minimum years, we must guarantee a minimum pension of an amount sufficient to live a decent life. Pensions must be valued not by a percentage, but by a fixed amount. Pensions must be financed from the income of the state, from its companies, for natural wealth. It is clear from this that if pensioners have a dignified stable income throughout the pension period, they will not depend on any extraordinary additions. In fact, if someone's in poverty for a long time, 5,000 won't save him at one time, because there are a lot of retired people who don't even pay their rent. What's worse, in their miserable situation, even social authorities are often unable to help them with such assistance. The SPD therefore passed a law on the legalisation of a minimum pension at the level of the poverty threshold established by the European Statistical Office, so-called "the European Statistical Office'. Eurostat, for the Czech Republic. No one who has worked for mandatory years should live below the poverty line. That's our moral obligation to our seniors. Nor should disabled pensioners live below the poverty line. In principle, there is no need to raise the highest pensions so quickly, but there is a need to systematically increase the lowest pensions. You really can't live on those these days. And the government doesn't realize that. On the one hand, the State would save what it would have issued by lawing a SPD proposal for a minimum dignified pension, so on the other hand, it would have saved social aid to the poorest pensioners, and it would also have saved the associated bureaucracy, because everyone would have simply had the basic dignified pension and only from the notice of merit. As I said at the outset, of course, we support the proposal for a one-off allowance for SPD pensioners, because, of course, something is better than nothing for pensioners. But at the same time, I'm saying that's not the real system aid that retired people need. This would be a truly dignified regular pension. By a one-off contribution, the government is seeking an evasive advertising manoeuvre, which the government is attempting to distract pensioners from giving them a regular stable pension, a dignified and decent pension. And the money would be for it if the government restructured the state budget and finally crossed out billions of items that bring nothing to decent people. But this government does not have the courage to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u7	Thank you. And also with priority rights will be performed by the Deputy Chairman of the ČSSD Club Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u8	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, dear government, it is clear that I cannot agree with my previous speaker. I guess that's natural. As Social Democrats, we have long been promoting a one-off contribution to pensioners in 2020. We're glad we pushed him through, that we're discussing him today. We are pleased that our seniors and seniors will also receive this one-off contribution, as the Minister of Finance has already mentioned. Despite the great efforts of our common government in recent years, and this can hardly be denied, pensions have increased extremely significantly. And I would also like to remind you that, as of 1 January, the valorisation mechanism will work, which we have also pushed through the previous government, ensuring that pensioners are able to increase their pensions without any political drag-and-bags in the Chamber of Deputies, following the evolution of prices and economies. Thus, we are looking for the most dignified fair and honest pensions for anyone who has worked his entire life. [[17.50 hours]] Despite our efforts, however, the reality is that nearly 400,000 seniors have income below CZK 12,000. According to statistics, poverty starts from CZK 11 963 in households. So it is clear and natural that if we have the opportunity, and we have the opportunity, and the main objective is, of course, to encourage consumption and support our economy in this situation - so it is natural that if this is the case, the government makes use of the possibility of a one-off contribution of CZK 5,000. And it's the money that retirees and pensioners deserve and whose spending, apart from being dignified and honest, will come back to society. Because we have been approached by pensioners and pensioners in recent weeks with regard to whether we will be able to make the adjustment, when it will be paid, how it will be done, I will just briefly repeat what they ask most often. First, there is a one-off payment of CZK 5,000 for all types of pensions, whether old-age, disability, orphan or widow's pension. For each pensioner, however, this happens only once, i.e. the widow of an old-age pensioner receives only CZK 5,000. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the And the contribution - and this is the most important and these are frequent questions - will be paid by the Czech Social Security Administration this year. My honored colleague Jana Pastuchová will then shorten the negotiations so that we can fulfill this promise towards pensioners and pensioners. What is even more important and what is often asked by pensioners - and it has not always been so in recent years, but we have now worked out this way as a government - the impact of the contribution on benefits, the possibility of inclusion in the execution. The entire allowance will be received by the seniors, not reached by the bailiffs, not counted for entitlement to social benefits, nor will it be subject to income tax. That is what I think is important information towards our seniors and seniors, so I also consider it important to repeat this here. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Social Democrats support a one-off contribution to pensioners in 2020, and we will be happy to push this through as quickly as possible with the other parliamentary clubs in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u9	Thank you. Mr Jan Bauer, President Marian Jurečka, will now speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u10	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, dear colleagues, I have already made a detailed statement on this government bill during the first reading, so I do not want to repeat myself. On the other hand, allow me, in several sentences, also to present the amendment for our membership club, which is read in the system under number 6516, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. The discussion of the Government Bill on a one-off contribution to pensioners in 2020 - this is therefore a House press 997 - gives the opportunity to renew the debate on setting more appropriate sub-standards for raising senior pensions in the highest age group, which was accompanied by the approval of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act in 2018, if you remember this. I had already argued in detail why it would have been more appropriate as a criterion for granting an increase in the percentage of pensions under Section 67 (b). (a) provide for a period of 25 years for these seniors, instead of the current age limit of 85 years, for which the pensioner receives an old-age pension. The Senate of the Czech Republic, who returned the government amendment to the Chamber of Deputies with the relevant amendment adopted, also turned to this view. In the end, as the vote turned out, I'm sure you all remember well as well. It is still true that the adjustment of the criterion for increasing the percentage by the amount of CZK 1000 according to § 67 letter. (a) The Pension Insurance Act is still desirable because a period of 25 years is fairer for assessing the need for an increase in the pension amount than for setting a strict age limit of 85 years. I draw particular attention to the fact that in the most vulnerable group of seniors there are women who raised children and worked during communism, retired at an earlier age, and yet, according to the current wording of the law, they do not get into the group of pensioners included in the criterion of 85 years or more. That is why we give consideration to whether to accept small but systemic and for a number of seniors, especially seniors, at a higher retirement age a fundamental adjustment to the existing pension system. Thank you for your support, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u11	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka will now appear, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová will prepare. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I must say for us, for KDU-ČSL, that we have long followed the question of the situation of seniors in the Czech Republic. It is a topic that, even in this House's term of office, we have tried to address here several times with our legislative proposals, whether they were amendments or amendments to certain laws. Above all, the large irregularities that are in the amount of pensions, for example, among women who have devoted a portion of their lives to raising their children, or they are widows and widowers. When we look at the statistics, there is quite a difference between the amount of pensions of these groups. Widows and widowers are the most at risk of a group of more than 600,000 old-age pensioners, with an average old-age pension of approximately CZK 2.5,000 a month. And often enough, they are in relatively difficult social situations to pay all the costs not only for housing, but also for clothing or treatment costs. Then it's the second highly affected group. These are the mothers who worked properly in the employment of their children, and they have a pension of more than CZK 2,200 a month. In the long term, our pension system is punishing those responsible, who are making sure that there is a strong group of us present payers into this system. The system actually punished them for giving a life, sacrificing a career in the upbringing of future generations, not growing their incomes, not counting on a higher basis for calculating pensions, as did those who - for example, in our country, men - did not sacrifice so much to the family and the children's upbringing. We have tried repeatedly to make parametric changes in order to address this disadvantage not only by eliminating those consequences for those who are already old age pensioners, but to try to find the solution for those who are working today, so that the calculation bases can be adjusted so that, for example, the principle of a common assessment base for pensions in the Czech Republic can be established here so that the spouses or partners can agree on it so that moms are simply not harmed or punished in this way in the long term. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in this parliamentary term either, we will keep trying. But I think that, in addition to eliminating the consequences, we still have to eliminate the causes that our system unfortunately still has. And unfortunately, the large pension reform, which has been called for so much in the long run, is still out of sight. When this press came here, there were arguments about whether or not there was a pre-election bribe and all that. I never wanted to slip into this debate, and I never even commented in this spirit, because I think that there is a really large, large group of seniors who deserve to have their situation dealt with not only by short-term instruments but by long-term instruments. This instrument is short-term, immediate. There will be some improvement in the part of the elderly who has very low pensions. That is why we have said well, we will try for us, for KDU-ČSL, to propose some parametric adjustments so that we can target those groups that, as I have mentioned here, face the difficult situation of life that the pensions are, even though they have worked fairly, so that they have been punished by the system, or they are punished and those pensions are very low. Therefore, those amendments which I will briefly comment on and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. I am merely giving consideration to the government coalition whether, in a situation where we are dealing with the issue of providing health personnel, health care, where the highest-risk group here is the seniors and chronically ill inhabitants of the Czech Republic, whether it might not be more effective at this point and more important to direct this money to strengthening the funding of the health sector, whether on the part of the issue of equipment or, above all, to ensure personnel capacity, so that we can have health personnel here, which we may need to activate from the groups of people who are now parents, maternity, or, for example, fresh seniors. That's for the consideration and competence of the government, but I'm putting it here as something that the government should definitely consider. [[18.00 hours]] If we continue to discuss this press, I have taken the liberty of preparing several amendments aimed at raising children or parents and fathers who have had children in exclusive care for at least ten years until their age, so that we could increase their pension. This means that we propose that the sum in excess of CZK 5,000 is higher for these groups of people, such as widows, widowers or disabled persons by CZK 2,000, so that it is subsequently increased for those parents whom I have appointed here, by CZK 500 for each child raised, and those who are above the average pension so that there is no support of CZK 5,000, but 3,000. We're looking for some sort of balance that we actually want to direct part of the money for that group of people who have lower pensions because it's also presented as really extraordinary help. It's not standard pension valorisation, it's extraordinary help to those who need it most. So so much, I am trying to be very brief, commentary on this House press, our amendments. And I will apply to these particular numbers in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u13	Thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u14	Thank you for the floor. I came forward in response to President Jurečka and I would like to, that is, if we are still in the general debate, and he basically presented his amendments to discuss them, if necessary, because, as he said repeatedly, he and his club come up with these proposals, he repeatedly talks about the mothers who raised the children, and that he wants to add them. And unfortunately, I am also repeatedly pointing out that, as their proposals are written, they are simply unrealistic. I just have to repeat it here, because it's one thing to do here or at a press conference or on TV and say that we want to add, or we don't want to add, how who, mommies who raised the kids, and the other thing is just to present some sections that don't match it. So let's talk about it, Mr President, through the President. You say in the text of the section that contributions are increased by 500 crowns for each pensioner raised by a child. That means you're not talking about women, because of course you can't, that would be unconstitutional. This means that, as is stated, it concerns both men and women, that is, if they are a full family and have a child, so according to the proposal, they would probably be entitled to the increased pension, even the father and mother, that is one aspect. The second thing is how it would be realized. Because the Czech Social Security Administration does not have data on how many children, how long they have been in their care. It's recorded in women who left and retired early, men don't notice it at all. And if you're putting efficiency on it to be true at the latest in July next year, it's just unrealized. [[I'm sorry, time.]] Yes, I'm aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u15	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová will now speak in the debate, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I don't think I'm going to be involved in the debate that my previous speakers actually started here. I think that now, under this point, there will probably be a person who will, of course, defend not only his amendments, but, of course, first of all his views on how he would actually do it best. We at KSČM said from the beginning that we can have fun, whether anyone likes it or not, that just at a time when the government group said it would give a one-time contribution of CZK 5,000, and it was at the time of the election, it really was targeted before the elections. That it helped significantly YES and ČSSD actually zero, I already think it is a presentation of how the voters themselves decided in the elections to regional councils, and the government coalition will probably argue about it itself. Anyway, we say for us that it is non-systemic, but we can't imagine that we would now say and vote for the 5,000 crowns, and we really don't care if our seniors differ 300, 2,000 or not, so we're talking in 90 percent about significantly low income amounts, which means that we're not going to be like KSČM those who would prevent a one-off contribution of CZK 5,000, but we're going to support it, because by this time the government coalition has not come up with any other solution to help our seniors significantly. Yes, we're having fun, we've got a retirement committee to deal with what's called pension reform. The only person who didn't vote for it was KSČM and ČSSD. And, as you can see, Minister Maláčová has not yet submitted any system solutions that have a head and a heel. At the same time, the revenue amount is also essential for us. When we talk about a one-off contribution of CZK 5,000, but no one said, which makes about 15 billion impact on the state budget this year, when we talk about some rapid change in the framework of pension reform for the future, where we will take pensions, where we will ensure that our seniors, even gradually new seniors, have pensions at all. I belong, I think, to some age limit where we're already saying publicly that we're not even gonna have that pension. I'm 1981. And really, as it seems so far in the context of developing a situation around some long-term positive change in what pensions should actually look like in the future, I have to say that we already take it so that pensions, if we don't save up, will not have any. It's just reality. And I must say that so far all the proposals that we have discussed have not fallen on fertile soil, and for us as a KSČM it is very sad and we are certainly not going to accept that. The government still doesn't want to hear our solution to faster valorisation of the lowest pensions. We don't understand why she doesn't like it, we're very sorry, and instead we're making some ideas here that we're probably not going to find a match across the political spectrum. We are nearing the end of the term, and perhaps we all must admit that what we will not have by the end of the year, we simply will not have it, which means that for four years again we are promising our people that we can make a difference, and instead we are just promising again, but there is no final solution. We are very sorry that we do not tell the elderly, or very little, that we will really help them with the 500 000 contribution, on the other hand it will not really raise their valorisation coefficient, which would increase their wages (?) also in the context of further valorization. Yes, at least what has never been added in the last four years has been added, the sums have been huge, but we really do have a large number of seniors living on the poverty line, and we need to do something about it. I would also mention the proposal from the SPD workshop. I understand that in this presentation in the media and here, when you're sitting at the counter, it's so easy to say that you have the only solution, that you guys are the only ones who figured out how to help those seniors, but no one's gonna write down where to say it's nonsense that you're actually denying all the factors how they're compiled and given pensions to our seniors, and that you're actually rubbing honey around people's mouths, literally and to the letter. That's why we at KSČM say we want a conceptual solution. Unfortunately, we may still talk about it in the state budget, but we say yes under the communists, we will support the government's proposal, but we are very sorry that the government has not, by this time, submitted anything that would be conceptual for our seniors and especially for those future pension collectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u17	Thank you. The following is the factual comment made by President Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u18	Thank you. I respect Roman Sklenák, which is why I am here to respond, but I must begin by saying that I am very sorry that when one looks at this government's programming statement and remembers the beginning of this term, there was a prime minister here who waved through this programming statement and said how one of the key priorities is pension reform and that he has it and that this government coalition can implement it. And I understand that we are now dealing with the effects of the covid and the issue of mastering this pandemic over a year ago, but it was evident that the more than two-and-a-half-year work of the Commission on Fair Pensions, led by Rector Danuše Nerudová, is actually heading again as a failed attempt at history, because simply the Prime Minister of the conclusions of this commission, which was made up of experts, with people across the political parties, has actually thrown off the table that he doesn't understand it, he didn't understand it in two minutes that he didn't care and that he would look for his own path. It is a great pity, because we have been spinning around here for several years now, and what I am describing here and what I am trying to respond to with our amendment is unfortunately still something that cannot be resolved. That here the only merit for calculating a pension is what earns during the course of your life. Where is the merit that parents, parents - mommy and daddy - go into raising children, caring for them, investing in them as in future payers? This system doesn't appreciate this merit at all. On the comment by Mr Sklenák, I will just say that the reasoning also states that the condition of child care is defined in the same way as the condition of the child's education for a woman's entitlement to an old-age pension in Section 32 para. 4 of the Pension Insurance Act. So the reference to how to deal with this situation is mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u19	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus will now speak in the debate, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u20	Hello. The Tricolor movement depends very much on the dignified experience of the later age of our pensioners and seniors. However, we demand that the solution that comes with be conceptual, withstand the scale of several years, withstand the scale and the current situation where we are. What the government has put forward, some people call it shabby and election, etc., I wouldn't be this pejorative, but it really isn't a conceptual solution. It was a random scream. The only thing I'd give the secretary for is that it doesn't matter anymore. The state budget doesn't exist, so if there's 30 billion pensioners, 20 over there, 14 over there, it won't change anything, and I'm sure the lady on my right here knows that very well. I think the times coming are gonna be tough. We're gonna have to freshen up some values that have always existed. One of them is intergenerational solidarity. In the House, the Tricolor proposal, which is currently strengthening, first of all, tax cuts, second, the possibility of sending money instead of the state to people who work and may still be working, money to their parents or grandparents who receive an old-age pension. Our proposal is in the order of the smaller clubs. We have now read it as an amendment, because it really needs to be, and even today, it doesn't have to be postponed again, starting the debate conceptually. So it's this thing. In principle, we have nothing against five thousand pensioners. It is one in terms of the collapse of the state budget, and pensioners are a group that deserves that money more than others for their lifelong work. On the other hand, their situation really needs to be addressed in a long-term and sustainable manner. That is why we have tabled an amendment and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u21	Thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u22	Thank you. Of course, I'm still responding to President Jurečka. Of course, the Section 39 para. 4 of the Pension Insurance Act is mentioned there, but I pointed out that the Czech Social Security Administration and other institutions simply do not have the data available so that such a change could be made automatically. This means that we would approve something here, somewhere in the computer system would enter these parameters, and that would immediately change pensions for those hundreds of thousands of people. This would simply not be possible, because the data is not available to the Czech Administration in this form. So if we were to approve it this way, basically each person of these hundreds of thousands of seniors would have to ask the Czech administration to provide at least some honest statement, maybe just some other documents, and some person would have to evaluate it there, a member of the Czech administration, and enter it individually into the system. And I was pointing out that we are really moving in the order of hundreds of thousands of people, so if the effectiveness of July next year is there, it's just not technically possible. So that's what I was pointing at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u23	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you our amendment, which seeks to address the difficult situation of singles and singles. It is for parents who are without their partners and care for careless children that the coronavirus crisis has, of course, fallen in the most prominent way. Many of them lost their jobs and, of course, their financial situation became even more difficult, or many of them were in debt. This is the same for young families with children. According to some surveys, 20 percent of these people lost their jobs in the spring, i.e. singles and singles, as a result of the crisis, a third of them dropped their income below CZK 10,000 and, according to this survey, half of them were in debt. This was in the spring and the situation is repeated. So at first it may have been possible to do so, at present they really have nowhere else to touch. Of course, the closure of schools, when they had to stay at home with children, increases costs, and, as a result, of course, by staying at home, they could lose their jobs. We want to prevent our amendment (?) mitigating their financial difficulties and getting caught in debt traps. The government is preparing a reward for pensioners for the problems associated with the epidemic crisis, but did not think about supporting single parents and young families. And it is they that the government should think of first and foremost, because, as the data shows, these very groups have been in trouble during the crisis that threatens their security. We should support the singles at a time of crisis in order to prevent these devastating consequences. One-off support could partly help singles and singles, but it's not a solution, of course, but it's a kind of signal that we haven't forgotten them. I think a group of retired people that the government prefers is a reward. Of course, we do not doubt that a number of pensioners are in a very difficult situation. I merely note that this could be dealt with in some way by pension reform, which the government has not yet had the courage to do, and also by providing health care and social services. [[18.20 hours]] What is the essence of our proposal? Our proposal suggests that the single or single child caring for the care of the careless child receive a contribution of CZK 6,000 one-time and the same parent who receives parental allowance. The impact on the state budget would be CZK 3 billion. I believe that such an amendment will be heard by colleagues and colleagues, because it is precisely the situation that is going to happen and will probably continue to curl up, and the effects will be more complex, that it will fall on the singles and singles, as well as on families with young children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u25	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has committed injustice by submitting this proposal. The wrongs of seniors who choose to work voluntarily themselves, even if they are entitled to a proper pension. Those who serve often have doctors who fight the Coronavirus and do not retire properly. I think it is not fair for those who decide to continue to pay social security, not to take a pension and continue to work and help society, so that they do not de facto get anything for this work for society, and vice versa, they are deprived of the opportunity to even get sloppy. That is why I am bringing here an amendment which should at least partially compensate for this. The current pension scheme provides for a fixed retirement age, which is gradually moving towards the retirement age of 65 years for years since 1971. This limit should not be absolutely established in the sense that after it has been reached, everyone must retire. Just as there must be an early retirement option especially for workers in a physically demanding sector, there must also be an option for people who want to fully or partially continue working life. We believe that the existing bonification of these people is insufficient. In some cases, the return on income from working pensioners is also a long 75 years. Therefore, we propose at least symbolically to increase the percentage of the calculation base for working pensioners in this way. For workers entitled to an old-age pension and not receiving a pension from 1,5 per cent to 1,6 per cent of the calculation base. For workers receiving half of the old-age pension from 1.5 to 1.6 per cent of the calculation base. And for workers receiving the entire amount of old-age pension from 0.4 to 0.6 per cent of the calculation base. The aim of the proposal is to positively motivate citizens who want and are able to work even after reaching retirement age. These people should then be adequately bonified. Higher motivation will increase the number of voluntarily employed or re-serving pensioners, which can have a long-term positive impact on the amount of tax revenue. This should subsequently be beneficial not only for working pensioners but also for long-term revenues of the state budget. If more seniors work at retirement age, it will help us and them. Please support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u27	Thank you. And Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík has yet to join the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will comment on the proposal that we have on the table as a whole. First of all, I must say that we are disappointed that the Minister of Finance first negotiated a significant increase in the government's budgetary reserve in the House in order to help companies and people affected by the coronation crisis, in order to make use of a significant part of this reserve as part of the electoral struggle, under this programme, as it is known to him, of shady. We've analyzed the claims that the $5,000 is consistent with a rise in inflation that doesn't count for valorisation yet. Our analytical team checked it out. And in fact, the difference between the inflation assumed by the national bank and which has occurred and which is not yet counted in the valorization is about CZK 1,000 per year. For this reason, we propose a compromise option, namely CZK 1,500, which takes into account both extremely high inflation, especially in the sector of goods used by seniors, as well as higher cost of living, given the need to purchase drapes, respirators, disinfectants and so on. We also consider the 1,500 compromise to be responsible in relation to the state budget, where, unfortunately, there is no money to spend now. We are falling into more and more debt and are in danger of financial markets rethinking the Czech Republic as a reliable country in terms of debt policy and increasing interest, which would, of course, be very negative and very quickly reflected in the state's management. Therefore, we propose a compromise variant of CZK 1,500 per senior. And I am still making one amendment, a proposal that seeks to eliminate one old injustice and change the way pensions are valued. Today, pensions are being wound up at the date of their payout. However, the payout date is changing, differing from one pensioner to another, so someone has been getting valorisation since January 4th and someone from January 24th and is losing the twenty days of difference. Only, of course, 20 days of the increase, not the whole pension. And it seems unfair to me. After all, this error in the pension system was also noted by the Slovák who fixed it. For this reason, I also propose to remove this mistake and introduce the valorisation on 1 January. And those who receive the first pension payment later in January will then receive a higher remuneration for the annualisation to January's pension. Such an old injustice would be removed, and people would be a little bit better off. So this is the second proposal we're putting forward. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u29	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one's checking in. I am ending the general debate. The rapporteur and the Minister have no interest in the final words after the general debate. We can therefore proceed to a detailed debate. I am opening a detailed debate. The rapporteur will be the first to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to ask you to shorten the time between second and third reading to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u31	Yes. I noticed. Mr Jan Bauer will now speak in a detailed debate. Mr. Václav Klaus will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u32	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this amendment, which is in the system under 6516. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u33	Thank you. Mr. Václav Klaus. President Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u34	Hello. I would like to sign up for Amendment 6498, which is in the system for this printing 997.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u35	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u36	Thank you. Good evening again. I therefore subscribe to the amendments under numbers 6319, 6320 and 6322.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u37	Yes, thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr Martínek will be ready. Mr. Chairman. I'm sure the MP will wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u38	Thank you so much for waiting so I don't have to come back here again. I forgot to sign up for number 6321.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u39	Yes. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Kovářová's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u40	I would like to sign up for my amendment and for Mr Vít Rakušan, it is under House document 6506.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u41	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u42	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment to House document 6493, which I justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u43	Yes, and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is reporting from the point of view to a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apply to the House documents under the number 6522, this is an improvement in the valorisation of pensions so that it is really from 1 January, there is a shift in efficiency from 2022, so that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can manage it, and I also report to the House document under the number 6524, that is the compromise of the one-off contribution. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u45	Yes, thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one's coming forward, I'm ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? She doesn't have a rapporteur, she doesn't have a secretary. But we will have to deal with one proposal that we have to vote on, and that is the proposal that the rapporteur made to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days. I'll call the MPs and the MPs. There's a check-out request, I've checked you all out, please log back in with your ID cards. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] Once again, according to the political grémia agreement, we will wait three minutes before voting. [[Short break.]] Then we're ready. We are voting to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32, 86 Members signed in for 72, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. I am done discussing this point and passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-004-009.u46	Have a good evening. The next item is
