ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-006-232.u1	232. Report on the use of the recommendations of the public defender of the rights to change the legislation set out in the Annual Report for 2017 /Household Press 306/ Instead of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Minister of Environment Richard Brabec was responsible for presenting this material. The Minister is not only present, but he is ready, so, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-006-232.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Whoever's ready is not surprised. I'll be brief. I would like to present to you the Report on the use of the recommendations of the public defender of the rights to change the legislation set out in the Annual Report for 2017. With this report, the government responds to the request of the Chamber of Deputies to inform it of the use of the recommendations of the public defender of the rights to amend certain legislation, thus addressing some of the problems encountered in her work. The government describes in its report what steps it has already taken or plans to implement recommendations. I would point out from individual steps, for example, the exemption of housing units in family houses from the real estate acquisition tax, which is the subject of an amendment which took effect at the beginning of November of last year. This recommendation is therefore already met. I would also like to highlight the upcoming amendment of the Ministry of Health in the field of health reimbursement, which provides, inter alia, for the review of the fulfilment of the conditions for reimbursement of health services from public health insurance and simplifies and enhances the transparency of the entry of medicinal products and foodstuffs for special medical purposes into the payment system, in particular as regards the area of highly innovative medicinal products and orphan medicinal products. At the same time, the Ministry of Health is currently preparing an amendment to the Health Services Act, which reflects the outputs of other activities. Similarly, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already submitted an amendment to the Social Services Act, where it is intended to impose sanctions on the rights of persons or an independent assessment of the complaint in social services. The amendment to the Labour Code, which was intended to ensure that there would be no reduction in compensation for loss of earnings after work incapacity, was effective from October 2018. Some questions, such as the rent for people damaged by accidents at work or the issue of personal documents based on family events abroad, continue to be the subject of a deeper debate and a search for specific solutions. However, the government will continue these debates. Finally, let me thank the public defender of rights for her work in favour of the people in this country, as well as all colleagues and fellow Members, Members, for the attention they give to her recommendations and the efforts they make to implement them. I believe that we can contribute together to solving these problems and to improving the protection of the rights of persons in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-006-232.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House press has discussed the petition committee. The resolution was delivered as House Press 306/1. And I am asking the rapporteur of the Committee on Petitions, Mrs Helena Válková, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-006-232.u4	Of course, we have always dealt with the recommendations and called on the government to focus its attention on the legislative changes that the petition committee considered to be the most up-to-date. In principle, the 2017 report, which we are discussing now, has repeatedly drawn attention to some things, and the ministries have not always responded quickly enough. That's what we've been pointing out. However, some things slowly get forward. There are a number of amendments to the press that have already been tabled, and I am now merely at random in order for you to remember, there are proposals by Members to allow the supervision of the state's attorney, the supervision of the state's attorney, to extend his competence, or to introduce a new factual nature of the offence, which would consist of some conduct that leads to degrading practices in relation to clients of social facilities, especially seniors. I'm saying it downstairs now. More cases. So we can't say that we're always happy with the speed of the process, but on the other hand, the fact that the government, the respective ministries, are trying to deal with these issues. It is then up to the Government and those who complement the Government in this regard by the Chamber of Deputies with their amendments to bring these gaps or shortcomings in line with the proposals of the public defender of rights. I would also like to, because it may be the last time we have this opportunity to thank for our constructive relationship and good cooperation with the Committee on Petitions during the last - not only this parliamentary term, but also the previous one. I will just sigh that it is a pity that she has not exercised her right to participate in any meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and even here to raise her voice and to draw attention to some issues of human rights, because I think we may all need it, because there are a lot of proposals here and she has the right to speak in such a debate. So I thank her very much for doing so on the petition committee. At the same time, I have to say in self-critical terms that I have not always succeeded in pushing these questions. And that is why I thank her so much on the one hand, on the other hand, I want to explain why some of the things she has proposed take so long - because they have not received enough attention. In general, it can be said that almost all its recommendations can be identified. I would now like to present to you the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-006-232.u5	Yes, please, you can introduce us to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-006-232.u6	Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the Report on the use of the recommendations of the public defender of the rights to change the legislation referred to in the Annual Report for the year - do not be alarmed - 2017: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Report on the use of the recommendations of the public protector of the rights to change the legislation referred to in the Annual Report for 2017."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-006-232.u7	Thank you. We have heard the motion for a resolution. I will open a general debate. No one is applying to the general debate. I am ending the general debate. The debate in detail is also launched now. I am ending the debate in detail. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur of the Committee on Petitions has introduced us to it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 161 Members registered, for 115, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
