ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u1	257. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations which Members disagreed with and were therefore placed on the agenda of the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On the agenda of the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 29 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, there is an interpelation directed at Secretary of Defense Jan Hamáček, who responded to the interpelation... [[Minister Hamáček corrects the President.]] Inside. What did I say? Excuse me. The Home Secretary... [[Fun in the hall.]] Well, the way it's done today, there's more of those ministers... There. He replied to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interview on the alleged sale of the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 611. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, who is present. So I am opening the debate. And Mr. Ondráček will be the first to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u2	Good morning, Mr President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm standing here in front of you with an interview, which I wrote on 19 August last year, so it's been quite a long time. That's when I asked about the alleged sale of the Mercur Spa House. With the reply of the Minister, respectively. I was not satisfied with the Ministry of the Interior and I refused this reply in the middle or early of October, but for the absence of the Minister of the Interior I had to wait five months to discuss this interpelation here. In the meantime, I've done one more interpellation to complement the previous answers, so I'll have more, as they say, charged. It is not alleged, but it is simply the sale or inevitability of the property of the Ministry of the Interior, namely the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně. If you look at some pages of the services of the Ministry of the Interior, or also of the civilian site, it is said that this spa house is located in the most beautiful location of the city, directly opposite the colonnade with mineral springs. There are 91 beds, etc. etc. [[9.10 hours]] The object isn't in very good shape, because in the last 30 years, no one's cared for it, even if there were investments in those objects. The Ministry of the Interior was going to modernize this facility to meet today's standards and to allow members of the security forces, especially police officers and firefighters, to perform so-called recovery stays to which they are entitled after serving 15 years of service. There are quite a lot of policemen who are entitled to a healthy stay. According to the Ministry of Interior, only members of the Police of the Czech Republic for 2019 were almost 28,500 people who would be entitled to such a healthy stay. Of course, the capacity of the Ministry of the Interior is not 100%, so not all members can go to spa facilities, which is managed by the Ministry of the Interior, whether in Františkovy Lázně, Karlovy Vary, Luhačovice or contracted elsewhere. The spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně had one major problem that he did not have his own brewery. This means that the members had to eat at a remote contracted hotel where the food was provided. Some criticized it, some viewed it as a form of rehabilitation, because even a walk, or, say, a healthy walk, a walking movement, is a form of rehabilitation, and some members, especially those who perform their service in offices, welcomed it. Of course, the city benefits greatly, because in this facility there are about hundreds of members of the Police of the Czech Republic or the Fire Rescue Corps and the police, as you know and many suspect, even though he is not in service, so he is in the service for virtually 24 hours, because if he sees any problem breaking the law and is able to perform the procedure, nothing prevents him from doing so. So it has a form, let's say, precautionary, when it is known that there are dozens of police officers in this spa town, even if not in direct service, but perhaps only at the rehabilitation, or, if you like, a healthy stay. But it was also of considerable benefit to local entrepreneurs, because by not being a brewery, the police were taking their meals, but after the procedures they were free and could stop by this beautiful spa town for a cup of coffee somewhere, at some dessert, and they just left some crown behind. The Ministry of Interior prepared a reconstruction of this building, basically also the completion of this house, with the intention that it was built between two blocks of wing with catering facilities and lunches that would be cooked there, would then be transported to nearby Františkovy Lázně, where the police also have facilities where they provide spa care for their members, but the brewery is not there either, so basically two flies would be killed with one stone and the distance between Mariánské and Františkovy Lázně is relatively short. The investment of about CZK 300 million, which is not so much money for the government, which says it is for investment. Because what's 300 million in the Home Office's budget? [[The Minister's remark off the microphone.]] I thank the Minister for telling me. These are, of course, the means that they are, but I believe that together we would be able to do the 300 million for the investment, because what else can we consider to be the right investment than in the care of our employees, the health of members of the security forces, who, after such a healthy stay, can surely serve us citizens of the Czech Republic better and happier. I'm not gonna be completely long, because we've been trying to negotiate with the Home Office in the meantime about what kind of development this should be. We also said, and after negotiations with the Ministry of Health - the Minister is not present - we said that by shortening the stay it loses absolutely some meaning, because going - many of you are doctors - for a recovery stay from any distance, say from Moravia, 300, 400 km to Františkovy Lázně, arriving on Monday for lunch, making an entrance procedure, saying that on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday I will have procedures to pack up on Friday and go back home again, it basically makes no sense, because if a recovery stay is to be reconditioned and it is to bring the member desired rest and recondition for his next service, so from the medical and spa perspective such a stay must be at least ten days. He confirmed this in our discussions, both the Minister himself and other medical experts. The arguments that, in agreement, these stays will be reduced to one week and the second week will have individual members are odd. You can just cancel it and sell it. I don't want to be long right now, because I'll wait for the Prime Minister's first opening word for what he'll come up with. We may learn that it has moved somewhere and that we will seek a common path to saving this spa house. I, at the Ministry of the Interior, and with some colleagues from the Security Committee across the political spectrum, offered the Ministry of the Interior's helping hand that we would try to raise these funds, those - let me say ridiculous - CZK 300 million for reconstruction, because we believe that we are selling or transferring, because we are not talking about selling here, but about transferring to the State Representation Office in property matters or who it is, and getting rid of this object, which we describe as the object that lies in the most beautiful location - there is nothing easier than getting rid of the property, but you will never get that property again, or you will not get it for the money that we get rid of now in this location. So let's look for a way to keep this object in the state's property, stay in the Home Office's property. We are prepared to lend a helping hand to the Ministry of the Interior in this and we will seek common means to keep this facility for members of the security forces, especially the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps, and to keep the members here for a demanding service when they are entitled to a healthy stay, to do the recondition and then to serve better. So I'll wait for the Prime Minister's opening statement, and then I'll consider my next contribution accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now the Minister of the Interior has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I would like to put the following information in general on your question. With the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně, as well as other houses of the resort, it is appropriate to manage the state contribution organization of the Ministry of Interior, equipment of services for the Ministry of the Interior. Currently it was decided to terminate the operation of this house on 31. 12. 2019 and this decision led, in particular, to economic reasons where the operation of the spa house would require considerable costs for the reconstruction, which you talked about, in particular the construction of your own catering facility. In 2017, when the planning was started, the preliminary calculation was CZK 300 million. I am convinced that today it will be considerably more and that if the decision of the Ministry is fulfilled and the operation is terminated, so obviously the costs of running the house, which are from 2018, will be lost and these funds can be used in the budget of the services facilities until the development of other spa houses. Another reason - that is also in the documents I sent you - was the requirement to reduce the systemization of jobs at service facilities. There he is now, or there were 975 people and we were forced to reduce the number of employees by 30. So if we were to go along the way of the reconstruction of the spa house and the construction of catering operations, we wouldn't be able to cut employees, but we would still have to increase their number. [[9.20 hours]] What I want to clearly disprove is what you called in one of your interpelling police chatter that a pre-selected buyer is already chosen. I want to make sure that I don't. This is not even possible, because, as you rightly said in your performance now, after the operation in the spa house is terminated, the property will be transferred under Law 219, when it decides on permanent non-necessities, and it will be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Office of State representation in property matters. So the Ministry of the Interior and the service facilities can't have any effect on how the ÚZSVM deals with the property. It is certainly not true that a new owner was already known. I agree that this termination will have an impact on recovery capacity, which will fall from 8,500 stays to some 7 090. We consulted with representatives of the Police Presidium, Fire Rescue Directorate General, as well as representatives of trade unions, and the solutions we offered were accepted. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the Member and his colleagues are prepared to assist the Ministry of the Interior in finding funds for the Ministry's activities. I'm just wondering if it's really effective to take 300 million and invest them in repairing the house. The 300 million - just for illustration - is the ten-year operation of another Tosco spa house in Karlovy Vary, so I wonder if it would be more efficient to use the 300 million more efficiently, that is to buy stays somewhere else, that ad a). Ad b) I am in a situation where I am criticized from the left to the right for not being able to pay adequate policemen, that we are missing in Central Bohemia, in Prague, that there has been no stabilization allowance for eight months. So it's all about priorities, and if the Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies wants to help the Ministry of the Interior, then I'd like help in getting the money to pay the policemen, that is to say, let's put the so-called stabilization contribution to life. In this situation, I believe that the Ministry of the Interior cannot afford 300 million investments in the spa house in Mariánské Lázně, because it simply has different priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u5	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking, who's interested in speaking in the debate? Mr Ondráček will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u6	Thank you. The minister basically read the responses to the interpelations I was giving. Thank you for that, at least we freshened up. I understand, of course, that the matter has been discussed with the police and the Fire Rescue Corps. The Minister also presents with the trade unions. But paper can take anything they say. And now we have to say what's true, because the answer to the interpelation says - it's been discussed with the unions. But since the interpelation came into the world and it started to talk about it being discussed with the union, so, Law 3. 11. 2019 published an article: Policemen do not like the closure of the spa house Mercur and police unions do not like the intention of the Ministry of Interior at the end of the year to end the operation of the spa house Mercury, which provides spa services to policemen, firemen in Mariánské Lázně in a lucrative place opposite the colonnade, and so on. The whole article is here. Trade union chiefs of firefighters, Zdeněk Jindřich Oberreiter and Martin Nedvěd do not dispute the end of operation of the spa house Mercur, but police officers are against it. It is said "it has been discussed with unionists" but probably not all of them. Or in that case, someone has to lie because the article that's here and refers to specific names says yes, we don't have a problem with it, we don't argue that it was with us, and that's probably the fire department, but police, police union say otherwise. And the former chairman of the largest union organization of the independent union police association Milan Štěpánek essentially denied these words or the meeting. So I don't know where the truth is or isn't, but I'm sure it's not true that it would be discussed with all the unions. The police have at least three, but maybe even four or maybe five trade union organizations, although not all of them are being dealt with, which I understand, but the largest trade union organization that operates in the police force, which is NOS, denies these negotiations by the mouth of its former President Milan Štěpánek. That's one thing. Save it. I understand that if someone gives a decision to save 20 spreadsheets, we'll cross it off. We decide to sell the property because we need money. Then sell the Home Office. Sell the Police Presidium, sell any house. After all, this is a short-sighted policy, Minister, to sell property just so I can run something else. So in 10 years, if you don't invest 300 million now and you have to run Tosca for 10 years, in 10 years, which is so short a time, we're going to sell another object in 10 years to run this Tosca. Then we'll sell another object, and eventually we'll sell the Tosca that you've reconstructed, because it's not actually going to run as such. And we're going to say we're going to be contributing that amount to individual cops as a whole. So for me, it's short-sighted politics, selling property. Shortening recovery stays isn't gonna solve anything. I understand that the money you have here or that you're gonna save, you're gonna say 300 million, that you'd like to use it in recruitment... sorry for the stabilization surcharges. You need to get that money somewhere else, somewhere else. That's a different pile and a different chapter. And you know very well how the stabilization fee, under what circumstances it was enforced here in the House. I'm not going back to that. I've been doing one of those interpelations recently, which I'm going to publish now, that he's just a loser. We're in conflict here, you know that very well. I didn't find it entirely fair to make promises that I don't have to make, and today the members are justifiably screaming that they were promised something. But it must also be said that a stabilization supplement of up to CZK 700 000 per year is a stabilization supplement that would be higher than their average annual wage for 80 percent or 90 percent of the security forces. This also needs to be said that it's probably not quite normal there. If you need to save money, just say the word, Mr. Secretary. I will give you some examples of the last time some of the officials who have been given hundreds of thousands, let's say that this is more than half a million crowns, the rewards to leave the security forces soon, and with such an outrageous reward they have increased their claims to the sum of CZK 80,000 a month. Those are the things that they are. It's okay, Minister. We'll sit down. And you tell me if it's normal for you. If so, then let's not be surprised that the police are in the state they are, because it doesn't match. [[unintelligible]] But here we are talking about a spa house and let's go back to the spa house. It's not interesting for you, you want to sell it. I say, and I wrote that a certain buyer is ready. I'll keep an eye on that thing, even if I know what the proper official procedure is. But I'm telling you, when we get back to it in two, in three years, I'm gonna pull out these materials where I wrote you those names, and let's see if we can get to the fact that it's gonna end in the hands of these people. And you from the same people will buy the vouchers, but not for five thousand or seven thousand, which is today's fee for one voucher for 14 days, but for multiple amounts, which will be in the order of CZK 20,000 per police officer. Then you're gonna say, "I don't have the money in my budget 'cause the healing stays are so expensive, we have to buy it from private people because we don't have that kind of capacity." The security forces are getting old, we both know that they are getting old, that more and more members are in the category where they are already entitled to a healthy stay. And we can't attract new members, and they're not interested in the service. And those reasons are more than just funds. More. If you read the opinions of some of the trade unions that wrote you that ten-year-old, what's the reason why someone doesn't want to serve, the funds weren't in the first places or the top five. They were even at the very conclusion. So these are also the important things: the management failure of some colleagues in management positions. And do you know why the so-called elite investigators or the elite cops have been leaving lately? But we'd be getting somewhere else, and it's not the point now to completely support the Ministry of the Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic, because there are enough problems. I understand you've been waiting five months, these people have been given statements, the house is empty, 20 people have been released, you've done what you need to do. These people didn't lose their jobs because qualified medical staff in the spa town could find applications in the next spa house, perhaps even better paid place than the service facility of the Ministry of the Interior. The only person who lost this thing is the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps, although some of their commanders agreed to it and some trade unionists agreed to it. So I'll wait for you if you want to react, if you don't, then I'll draw a conclusion and a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u7	Thank you. A point of fact - Minister, I apologise - Mr Třešňák's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u8	Good morning, colleagues. Let me briefly and quickly support Mr Ondráček's intervention, not only as someone who has been growing up in that city for 37 years, he perceives the way in which property speculation and such historical buildings have been signed on to the image of the city. Indeed, I would not like the Ministry of the Interior to become one of those speculators who will sign that painting. And really, aside from what I can sign - my colleague Ondráček spoke about the issue mainly from the point of view of those security forces who go there to heal and rehabilitate, I will take it from the property perspective. Indeed, if the Ministry had done so - the Minister claims that he would not sell it, that he would only transfer it from the Ministry of the Interior's facility to the Office of State Representation in Property Affairs. How much will the Ministry save? So I view the state budget as one package, and if we transfer it from one to the other, it really is a resortism, although it automatically implies that the Office of State representation will then sell the building. We're starting to think it's gonna be for another interpelration. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u9	Thank you, and now for the debate, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u10	Well, it might be for another interview, but for the Secretary of Finance, not for me. Because the UZSVM is subject to the Ministry of Finance. And I want to clearly reject some hints here that the state is a speculator. We at the Ministry of the Interior stated that we simply do not want to operate the property anymore, from our point of view it is uneconomic, drowning 300 million in it does not seem adequate to us, so it is unnecessary for us mothers and under the law it will be transferred to the ÚZSVM. If another member of the state is interested in this property, then of course it can show interest in it, if not, then there is in the ÚZSVM gesture what it will do with the property, it is likely to sell it to someone. But that's the law procedure, that's not speculation. So I would ask that we say things exactly, and if anyone follows the law, it can hardly be called a speculator. First of all. Two. I don't think my colleague Ondráček and I can agree on this. I think the Ministry just has other priorities. I understand his arguments. Ideally, of course, if all the budget requirements of the Ministry of the Interior were met, we would have kept the house and we would have renovated it. Money just isn't, and we need to look for priorities. What interests me here is those hundreds of thousands of rewards. I'd like to -- because I hear it the way I always do, on the side, and they say someone got paid off. So if Mr Ondráček has a list of the hundreds of thousands of bounties and those members who received them, I am asking him to hand it over to me, and I will deal with the relevant head of the security forces because I have warned them that such a whisperer is running around and that I consider it unacceptable that inadequate remuneration should be paid in the police or fire department, and both directors should have monitored these things from me. That is, if it is here that hundreds of thousands of rewards have been paid, as my colleague Ondráček says, please list the members to whom they should have been paid. I'll check with the head of individual security forces, and if it's confirmed that hundreds of thousands of bounties have been paid here illegally, I'll be disciplined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u11	Thank you, Minister. In the debate, Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I don't even want to question whether the Home Office wants to get rid of the spa house. The reasons are simply their reasons, I do not want to argue with them here, nor do I want to argue with what Mr Ondráček said. But I want to argue a little bit about what this house is gonna look like. And I understand my colleague from Mariánské Lázně, because the Office of State representation in property matters, the deadlines for dealing with the necessary state property are very problematic. And all of us who have the necessary property around the state, or we have in our municipalities and cities, have the experience that most of the state through this office doesn't sell these objects very successfully and it takes so long that the object that is at the beginning of the value, I say, 100 million, then becomes an object that is worth twenty. Or maybe even less, just think of it as an example, it's nothing concrete. So here I would see more - let's talk about the problem of how the state is to dispose of the necessary assets, and that is really a question for the finance secretary, not the Home Secretary. And, of course, the problem that Mr. Ondráček has outlined here, I am not questioning it right now, but rather the system of selling state property, because I see it as very hard to function, lengthy and economically not entirely advantageous for the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u13	I thank you and there is one factual point by Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, colleague Adamec has put me on the smash with regard to the necessary assets of the state and its handling of this residual property. He's the mayor. I was also, although not as long as he was, and I know the problems that municipalities often have, which would like to get this remaining property of the state into their possession, but unfortunately it cannot be directly done. They must, of course, go into a tender, into a tender, and of course they are discriminated against here, because it is a matter of price. And it must, of course, adopt a proper resolution in the council and this defines a mandate where they can move. So I believe that in such cases, the municipality should first be asked if it is interested in such assets. Of course, I'm not just talking about a free transfer, it's a bribe transfer. And if the municipality is not interested in this property, it should therefore be offered in a tender or tender. I think that this is certainly in the interests of the municipalities, and the municipalities could use this property very well. And it is often precisely the fact that property does not get into the property of the municipality that prevents the development of the municipality. So I think it's worth taking into account that even in this, the proper legislation will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone. So if no one is reporting, I am done with the debate. I ask Mr Ondráček, what is the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u16	Thank you. So, since we knew from the very beginning that we were here for every other point of view of the matter, unfortunately, we did not have to wait up to five months for it to be resolved this way, when the house was already empty, I still dare say that I propose that we refuse to respond to this written interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u17	So the honourable Member is proposing a disagreeable position. I'm going to call in our colleagues from the lobby. There's a motion to unsubscribe, that might work this time. So I just checked you out. Let me read you a few apologies. First - with the replacement card number 27, Mr Bartoš votes. Mr Ferjenčík apologises between 9.00 and 9.20 for family reasons, Mr Pour apologizes from 14.30 to 18.00 for work reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes between 9.00 and 10.30 for family reasons, and Mrs Lucie Šafránková apologises within 10 hours for work reasons. [[9.40 hours]] We still don't have enough votes, and I don't even have anything left to read to you. At this point, one vote is missing from the House's resolution. I don't have any left. Let's try it first... [[There's an MP coming into the hall.]] So we're in a position to settle, thank you. I am voting here on Mr Ondráček's proposal for a dissenting opinion, i.e. the House does not agree with the reply to the written interpelation. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 52: 74 entered, for 35, versus 8. This proposal was not adopted. The resolution was therefore not adopted. I thank you and end the discussion of this interpelation. Another interpelation is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Jan Zahradník's interpellation with regard to energy security of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 684. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 13 February 2020 in the debate. At the time of the interruption, Mr Jan zahradník spoke, with a factual remark, a Member named Ondřej Polanský was signed up. So we will continue with the debate, and Mr Zahradník has the floor, who ended because it was 11 o'clock. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I will therefore return to my speech, to my response to the answers that the Prime Minister and his experts have given me on my about nine questions. These really concerned the question of our energy self-sufficiency and security, but I won't read them again, I won't recapitulate them, I wouldn't dare. I'm just gonna come back with a quick comment on my first reaction to the first question. The first question concerned the capacity for the possible installation of photovoltaic panels, or photovoltaic power plants on the roofs of family houses, or on the roofs of public buildings, i.e. various offices, or private residential buildings, but more capacity than family houses. In response, he explained that there is roughly a capacity of 12 gigawatt-peak installed power, which is quite a lot. I have already given my comment in the said response. But I just want to say one more thing. If this were to happen, it would involve a large number of hundreds of thousands, millions of family homes, and thus millions of their inhabitants, who will install photovoltaic panels on their homes, will somehow use the energy they produce in this way, and will of course have to be connected to the power grid, so that if the sun doesn't shine, they can take energy from the state's supply for their appliances. That's the way it is today. I've got a letter from one of those people who built a photovoltaic power plant with a power of about 3.54 kilowatt, which is small, one of the smaller ones, but suitable for the roof installations. And when he withdraws energy from one unnamed distribution company, he gets - he takes 1,260 kilowatt hours and pays CZK 8,000 for it, or CZK 6 per kilowatt hour. But if, in another time, it produces somewhat above its consumption rate and supplies the generated energy to the network, it states that for the same period, in the same year, last year, it handed over 1,500 kilowatt hours from its power plant to the network, but the distribution company paid it only CZK 150, i.e. for the 1,500 kilowatt hours, or CZK 50 for the megawatt hour. Fifty crowns per megawatt hour, i.e. a fraction, a fraction, a tiny fraction of what he had to pay for the same unit of the supply company, is about five cents simply. So that's a thing that, of course, is understandable. I also replied to the gentleman that it is necessary in my opinion, because if all these balances were settled, he would go crazy and just pay for these differences and he would not be able to manage properly himself. But I mention it because these photovoltaic installations are really one of the major sources of energy if we give up the other, at this point in time, stable sources, like coal power. And those people who haven't had much fun with yet, haven't they?, they're just watching it, they're going to go away for a while, but they're just going to be called to install photovoltaics on their roofs, and now it's worth saying that it's under these conditions, under these very, very twisted, disadvantageous conditions. And at the same time, these people see that those big photovoltaic parks that don't consume any energy for their needs, well, maybe a small fraction that they're lighting up in that house serviced to that photovoltaic solar park, so of course there's going to be a kilowatt hour of far, many times the amount, even more than what he paid for the energy of that distribution. So this needs to be mentioned, that needs to be taken into account, that needs to be dealt with if we want photovoltaics and then wind energy to replace existing capacity energy sources. So I will now return to my response to the Prime Minister's answers, namely the last question or the second-to-last one, but the last one, I didn't react to it at all. It was a question of what LCOE values, or leveled cost of electricity, the Ministry calculates the comparative cost of energy for individual sources - coal, core, gas, sun, wind, or other sources. I didn't learn any specific figures from the answer, but the answer was very valuable to me, because I found out that the LCOE methodology, the comparative energy costs, the ratio between the total cost of the source in the form of investment and operation and the amount of energy produced during the lifetime of the source, was replaced by a new methodology, the abbreviation VA LCOE. This VA means in English value adjusted, i.e. in value sort of modified. Moreover, this characteristic, apart from the costs already mentioned in the previous methodology, also includes the costs of stability of supply, which, of course, is a big problem in the case of renewable sources. They can't be stable on their own principle. The sun shines, doesn't shine, can be long weeks, or a series of days when there isn't much production, can be a long series of days when wind doesn't blow and wind power plants don't produce in our conditions. Here are the following values of LCOE in one of the materials I found, VGB PowerTech from 2015, for each of these sources: brown coal 6 euro cents per kilowatt hour, wind power plant inland onshore located 7 eurocents per kilowatt hour and photovoltaics, possibly steam-gas resources 11 cents per kilowatt hour. [[9.50 hours]] The VGB document itself, when describing metrology, states the following: In the calculations used operating costs, they ignore the impact of the power generation system on the electricity system as a whole. This is a problem affecting all technologies and, in the case of the production of electricity from renewable sources, it cannot currently be stored in enough energy to balance supply and demand for energy from these sources at any time. The common argument of the supporters of photovoltaic energy is that when resources are expanded and more accessible technologies are available, as has happened in the solar boom in recent years, which we have to endure to date, everything will be resolved, that the market will level up. Here again on the topic VA LCOE, at those extended costs, it says: The exponential increase in photovoltaics could make this resource less competitive, not more. It can be read that the future of solar power plants and other sources will continue to depend to a large extent on the decision of governments, and without this government support the market can stagnate or fall, which would be an unfortunate fate, as many other promising technologies would be. So summarizing the subject, if I just add something to the cost, it's LCOE, i.e. investment, operation, so it looks pretty pink, as the graphs show, which I will then describe. However, if we really account for everything, including the cost of stability of supply, the pink future is already disappearing into the fog. Here, specifically, there is a graph where it lists the comparative costs in dollars per MWh, where, in the case of coal, the graph is slightly increasing, rather the constant curve, whereas the curve describing photovoltaic installations, in total, is decreasing in the form of some indirect proportionality. But if we count all of them, including the stability of the network, there's a significant decrease in coal, but the photovoltaics are growing again after a certain break after the initial decline. So our renewables aren't going well here, unfortunately. And it can be said here that in the case of photovoltaics even catastrophically. Another parameter that can be used quantitatively here is the energy performance parameter, i.e. the yield ratio of the harvest ratio, indicating how many times more energy during the lifetime the energy source will produce than it was spent on its construction, the entire duration of operation and the full liquidation after its lifetime. So coal or nuclear power plants have this yield ratio of 120 to 140 so times the time is longer, so the energy over the lifetime produced larger. For wind power plants it is 12 to 30 and a power plant with photocells, specifically in Central Europe, which is of course important to mention, the geographical position, the location, is 2 to 5, or 2 to 5 times more energy will produce during the life of photovoltaics than was spent on its construction, the entire duration of operation and complete liquidation. This is mainly about the construction or liquidation, because photovoltaics in operation have one single advantage that it does not consume any extra large energy for itself. Or maybe there's a time of energy return, energy payback time, which is a parameter that states how long it will produce an electric power plant of the same amount of energy for external customers as it was spent on its construction, operation and complete liquidation. So here, the coal or nuclear power plant lists three to four months, or in three to four months, it will produce what was spent on its construction, operation and disposal. Wind power plants have 8 to 16 months this time. With the first coal and nuclear lifespans of about 30 to 60 years. It's only been 20 years for those windy ones. However, photo cells with a lifetime of 20 years also have this parameter of two to eight years. So if we translate it into an understandable language, then we have to say that if renewables are no longer massively supported from taxpayers' pockets, then it will not be possible to rely on the energy they produce, and it will simply be such a struggle for perpetuum mobile. Or, in other words, the struggle to refute Einsteinův's theory of relativity. This kind of nonsense is still coming from Brussels. At the end of my speech, I wanted to address the Prime Minister with a challenge, but the Prime Minister is not here, but there is Minister Havlíček, who will probably tell him when he finds out. Here in an interview, Deputy Director Neděla says that basically all of our plans could cost us 3 trillion crowns by 2030. That billion crowns will be the money wasted on the so-called. The solar tunnel and 2 trillion then mentions the Deputy Minister for Energy Efficiency, an instrument designed to increase energy efficiency, to reduce prices, to increase quality, etc. Well, if the 3 trillion that we have here, just 5 percent of this amount, so some 150 billion, were invested in modernizing our main existing coal power plants, so that they could meet the very strict ones, still tightening up BATs and BREFs that the EU supplies us with, i.e. parameters for the environmentality of those resources, we might get a time space that we could then use to find resources and find ways to build our new, so much needed nuclear resources, or if we built those 3 trillion nuclear power plants, so just a simple calculation at the cost of twice today's estimates for megawatt, so if we assumed that megawatt of power costs 240 million, we would get those 3 trillion back, and we would have 12 gigawatts, which is six Temelíns today, and so it's one gigawatt more than the output of all our today's coal power plants. We often watch, or we are oriented into the world, how the agreements are being fulfilled, how the Paris Agreement is being implemented. China, which we sometimes also turn to as a model in this respect in renewables, is under construction 120 gigawatts of new coal resources, or basically 11 times the performance of ours that we still have in our country. So if we rapidly close existing coal resources to the flights that have been in sight since our present, that is, 2030, as some green activists have suggested, demonstrating before the Office of the Government on the day of the coal commission's meeting, it could actually be some sort of ritual suicide that we would have caused ourselves. And for the world's climate, with our 9 percent share in world emissions, that would really be an unmeasurable benefit. [[10.00 hours]] The Prime Minister has often expressed himself very strongly, very strongly. On January 11, he said that he would not let Europe impose on him the things that should threaten our economy. He doesn't want to be taken down by fanatical green measures that threaten our industry. The Prime Minister even said that he would rather sue and argue at worst about sanctions. Those are pretty brave words. So far, we've always given in. Of course, we now have the Green Agreement for Europe. This is an approved issue which Commissioner von der Leyen has actually made the flagship of her policy. Green deal, Green Deal for Europe. We will discuss it in the Committee on European Affairs in the near future, so I am carefully preparing for this. These are really things that need to be considered and that need to be paid attention to. In my opinion, the action that the Prime Minister is referring to, since he wants to bring an action on the Green Agreement, he must, of course, know that efforts to increase energy efficiency can lead to an increase in the commodity that we are trying to save with greater efficiency. This is the well-known paradox of Jevonsův, which was formulated by this English physicist in the middle of the 19th century and which says that, in more efficient use of a given resource, the consumption of the commodity, possibly also demand, and then some impact that commodity has on its surroundings, is increasing. This paradox was formulated in the 1990s by Khazzoom and Brooks in his postulate, which says that improving energy efficiency, which is justified at microlevel, i.e. at the level of ordinary people, leads to higher energy consumption at macro level. So another formulation of this postulate. It could be said that these are some crazy theories of Cimrmanian, no one is concerned with it, it really is such a marginal topic, but in recent times, in 2018 Tim Garrett published his warnings of the same kind that energy efficiency can be brought to the contrary, in addition to economic growth, on the contrary, more energy consumption, and therefore also more CO2 emissions, which is a contradiction with what we want to achieve by increasing efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, this is all a matter that I say quite often here. As I said, the Green Agreement for Europe awaits us. The question is whether we should also address this Green Agreement here at the plenary of our House, because the immediate consequence of the Green Agreement will then be the climate laws that we will have to implement, because I have already read in today's media that the Commission is beginning to formulate and enforce the first such climate laws, and, of course, as we well know, when these laws pass to us in the form of some European regulations, we will be subject to the obligation to implement them, otherwise we will be threatened with infringement and various draconian fines, as we have already witnessed in some previous cases. So I could be the one who's putting up cases of these plans to replace coal with photovoltaic. These are all plans that look good on paper when they talk about installed gigawatts of power, but then, when it is properly converted to generated energy, we really are at a fraction of the need we have, because those renewables of this type are not stable resources. I've said that again and again. Of course, we have a renewable water source here, but it's exhausted in our country, we can't expect any new source, and yet we're putting our operators back under our feet by basically taking away their water permit in the water bill, as it's formulated in one section, or pushing them to restore their facilities, and basically taking away their chance to run our business, which is as part of renewable resources. So, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister's colleagues for the answers. Basically, one side of the other I questioned them in some way, I found errors in the formulas that were there, in the answers, and that is why I will also submit a motion for a resolution, but now I am ending my speech and perhaps the President will give some room for discussion if he is interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u19	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Good morning, honourable Members. Before we continue the open debate, I have two apologies here, namely to Bohuslav Svoboda for the whole day for work reasons and to Mr Petr Sadovský from 9.00 to 13.00. So now, in an open debate, I ask who is reporting for the debate. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. Does Mr. Zahradník have a proposal for his interpellation? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u20	I can see there's no interest or response here. Even the Minister may have been able to speak, but he wants to, I don't blame him, but the discussion is over. I will say the motion for a resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies disagrees with Prime Minister Babiš's reply to Mr Jan Zahradník's written interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u21	Okay, thank you, or disagree according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. We will decide on the proposal in the vote of 53. First, I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna go get my coworkers so we can decide. I'll wait a little longer... I'm gonna reengage. Soon we will reach the necessary number... We will decide on the proposal to disagree with the Prime Minister's reply, as proposed by Jan zahradník, in the 53rd vote that I launched. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 53. Of the present 72 for 33, versus 16. The proposal has not been adopted and we can therefore consider this interpelation to be terminated. [[10.10 hours]] Another intervention that is included on today's agenda is the response to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpelation on "what programme do you have today, Prime Minister?". The discussion of this reply was suspended until further discussion of written submissions, i.e. To this day. Initiating debate. My colleague Jakub Michálek is reporting for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u22	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, have prepared my contributions to this debate, however, given that, at the last meeting of the House, remarks were made in the sense that we should first discuss further interpelations of Members, so I propose that we interrupt this interpelation until the discussion of the other written interventions included in this meeting, with the exception of those which have been interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u23	Okay, thank you. So it's a different procedural proposal, i.e. in order to be classified as those interpelations which have already been included today, not those which have been placed at another meeting, but those which are now included in this meeting. There is a problem under the Rules of Procedure Act, so I can only say that it will be interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, or by the next hearing of written interventions, i.e. for next Thursday. Yes, Prime Minister? If we take the Rules of Procedure, the shift during the interpellation is not possible, but it can be interrupted, i.e. that it would be her turn, for example. Next Thursday. We can do that by next Thursday, which does not prohibit us from the Rules of Procedure. [[Member Michálek agrees.]] So, until next Thursday. Initiating vote 54 and asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 54, out of 75 for 41, against 1. The motion was accepted. This interpellation was interrupted until next Thursday. Before we continue to intercede with Mrs Olga Richterová, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, it is a clarification of the apology of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports with the fact that he is attending today the opening ceremony of the school in Řeporyjích, to which the Ministry of Education and Youth contributed within the framework of the subsidy programme of CZK 60 million, which is why he apologizes today. Well, that's reading an apology. Therefore, I am now opening an interview with House Press 707, and this is Mrs Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to fare reductions for disabled pensioners. It was interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and I therefore ask the honourable Member what proposal it makes. If the proposal remains the same, in which case this interpelation is already interrupted under the original resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. [[The Member agrees]] We now have another interview for the Prime Minister from Mrs Olga Richterová on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support, House press 709. It was also interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence. And here's my colleague. Richterová reports to the debate even in the absence of the Prime Minister, it is her right. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u24	Thank you for the floor. I just want to point out that I have spoken here about the issue of the previous interpellation, explaining why it is only within the competence of the Prime Minister. It's a government order, a comprehensive cross-cutting agenda, something that can't be decided by one ministry, it's up to the entire government. Well, actually, the exact same thing is this interpellation. The Prime Minister should explain to us how he will ensure that the Ministry of Regional Development, Labour and Social Affairs agree that a truly comprehensive approach to housing in this country will be ensured. Since the Prime Minister isn't here again, I can't discuss this with him. I just want to point out that this is something that the government itself has drawn up in its programming statement, and nothing is happening. So, again, I'm asking that it take time to interrupt the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u25	So we insist on a resolution that was adopted to press 709, and that is an interruption to the Prime Minister's presence. Now we have a block of interpellation ahead of us, and that's printing 711 Ondřej Profant. [[From the diaper, it is said that the debate has not been closed.]] I've already finished it. There was no decision other than the Prime Minister's presence. And I just said that the resolution was in force. I had to give the floor to the Interpelling Member, the debate was not open. And now I have a difficult task ahead of me under the Rules of Procedure. Since the interpelation is an individual right of a Member to ministers or Prime Minister, it is a constitutional institute and for the first time in the history of Czech parliamentarism we have seen that we have written here or, if you want me to be very diplomatic, to interpel several Members, we have a procedural problem, because some Members are duly excused for today, who have interpelled, and their interpellation so far, of course, do not end the discussion of the interpellation itself, because today's meeting is excused by Vice-President Pikal, Member Lenka Kozlová, Member Jan Lipavský, Member František Kopřiva, Member Dana Balcarová, Member František Elfmark and their interpelation with the same text falls today, and we will therefore deal with House prints 711, 712, 714, 715, 715, 718, 722, 723, 726, 727, 728, 729, 728, 729. That's one thing. [[Mrs Balcar is reporting to the President that she is present.]] So if you're here, I'm sorry, I had a comment... My kolegyně Balcarová has a replacement card number 17. In that case, we will discuss these interpelations that I have listed, and those that are failing... It is still necessary to find out who is present from these interpellings for the same interpelation at this point, because his interpelation also fails if he is absent at the time of the interpelation. But since I have called my fellow Members to vote, I hope that all others who have not properly apologized at the meeting are present in the auditorium. That's how I'm gonna put it, so we understand. And now we can start because the first one is Ondřej Profant, so we can launch the merged debate by speaking to our colleague Profant. The chairman of the club Jakub Michálek will outrun him with priority rights. And I'm opening up a debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, all I need to do is to clarify the situation that we are in. Have we already started and interrupted last time, or have we not started and voted for a merged debate? Because, unless a merged debate has been voted, in which case the interpelations should be discussed according to the order in which they were loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u27	On Thursday, January 30, this year we merged a debate on the responses to the interpelation of House prints 711 to 729. This was decided by a resolution. That is, a merged debate is here, because you, as interpelling Members, have agreed that it would not be good for the other Members to block the time that is two hours a week in the House Week. So we're happy that this step has come to an end, but we need to move on to the procedural trap that we've gotten ourselves into with those written interpelations, at least by dealing with the subject at once. And now, if you have exhausted your speech with priority rights, Mr President, it is my colleague Profant. So we are now acting as in the merged debate after the speech of Mr Profant, as when we have a merged debate on laws or other press. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u28	Good morning, colleagues. We had to resort to this step, since the Prime Minister is obviously not much of a manager, can't organise time and can't come to an interview. A simple obligation arising from constitutional order, because the Prime Minister answers to Parliament in our system. And that's not what's going on here effectively. I want to thank the ministers who are responsible here. They also have a lot of foreign trips and a lot of other responsibilities. But, as Mr President said a moment ago, written interpelations are two hours a week in a sitting week, three out of six weeks, plus some vacations and so on, that's really not much. And then he doesn't get to the big questions. And without communicating and discussing, of course, this country cannot develop and all decisions will be chaotic, changing from government to government and so on. At the same time, it is a lot of long-term strategic decisions that need to be addressed, such as the previous interpellation of Mr Zahradník, through Mr President, who deals with energy, or a lot of other issues that are not a matter for some two remaining years, since this government will be here, but for decades to come. That's enough for me to start.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u29	I thank Mr Profant. Now in the debate, Mr Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u30	Thank you for the floor. If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister certainly had other important, more important duties than attending the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and answering questions from Members on the basis of written interventions. Well, I clicked on the current information because the Prime Minister is constantly sharing where he is, what he is doing, and the current status 16 minutes ago: Karlštejn right now. [[The speaker points to the Prime Minister's Facebook profile on his mobile phone with a picture of Karlštejn. They applaud the MPs from the Pirates' benches.]] So the Prime Minister went to visit Karlštejn Castle instead of answering questions from Members to the Chamber of Deputies. Last time, I think he was looking at hockey, so now he's in Karlstejn. It is certainly not appropriate to treat constitutional obligations in this way. I'd like to turn against the fact that our interpelations have been labeled written. It's a mass interpellation. And it would certainly be appropriate to ask why so many Members consider it necessary to ask why the Prime Minister does not attend written interpelations. Well, probably because it's a big problem that he doesn't come here and ignore the Chamber of Deputies on such an important matter. Our interpelation is simply a protest against the Prime Minister not coming here. And we're discussing very serious issues here. Energy is being discussed here. Disability pensioners are being discussed here. The excluded localities and acute problems on estates such as Genoa are discussed here, duplicate controls in public administration, opaque management of ČEZ, preparation of the Czech Republic for the Presidency of the European Union. These are all important topics, and the Prime Minister should be able and prepared to answer questions from Members. I'll give you the exact numbers. We now have the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We don't have to count the special ones, because they don't have to be interpelled on them. Nor will we count the dates of written intercessions on which there was no intervention on the Prime Minister. We are left with a total of 26 dates, including today, of written interventions, when the Prime Minister was supposed to be here to answer the Members. And how many times did Prime Minister Babiš come? Three times! That's a 11.5 percent turnout. I don't know if anyone in this House feels normal that someone will be coming to work in 11.5 percent of the cases. Instead, he's at hockey or Karlštejn on a trip. Especially when it comes to the key constitutional duty of the Prime Minister in parliamentary democracy. Every member of the government sometimes misses Parliament's meetings, and every opposition always complains that ministers walk little. But to stop walking almost completely, that's something no Prime Minister ever dared to do. And giving this mass interpelation of ours, which has trouble pointing out, for a reason not to go, is really just an excuse. The Institute of written intercessions loses its sense in the case of ignorance by the Prime Minister. The Member intersects the Prime Minister and then has a legal right to have his intersitation discussed by the House. However, if the Prime Minister ignores the entire institute by interpelling, he cannot exercise this fundamental competence, which is based on Article 53 of the Constitution and is then further regulated in the Rules of Procedure Act. To avoid just staying with our party, Mrs Kovářová may have intersected the Prime Minister and he did not come for six months. When we look at her intervention, which was sent out as House press 482, concerning duplicate checks, it was submitted in April 2019, sent to the addressee on the same day, 16 April 2019, and the inclusion at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was requested in May 2019. It was sent to the Members in May 2019 and subsequently discussed 30. 5. 2019 when it was interrupted, 6. 6. 2019 when it was interrupted, 26. 6. 2019 when it was interrupted, 11. 7. 2019 when it was interrupted, 12. 9. 2019 when it was interrupted, 26. 9. 2019 when it was interrupted, 17. 10. 2019 when it was interrupted, 24. 10. 2019 when it was interrupted, 7. 11. 2019 when it was interrupted, 28. 11. 2019, when the hearing was concluded without the adoption of the resolution. So, in November, we finally reached the conclusion of Mrs Kovářová's interpellation negotiations, which was submitted in April. Regarding the interpelation of Mrs Olga Richterová, which concerned socially excluded localities and acute problems at the housing estate such as Genoa, the House Press 376, was interrupted four times before it was then discussed. Again, it took five months for this interpelation to be discussed. And the MP has always been here. She was ready for it. Then, for the fifth time, when it was discussed because of absence, she was excused for proper reasons. My intervention on the issue of opaque management of ČEZ has been interrupted six times, House printing 342. I also have here an example of the interpellation of Mr Lipavský - the preparation of the Czech Republic for the Presidency of the Czech Republic of the European Union, which could not be discussed because the Prime Minister did not appear, nor was another resolution adopted. So these are all pretty serious topics. And the Members are here to, of course, control the government that is responsible to them. Every Thursday at 9.00 p.m., an Interpelling Member must stand here on brands of doubt whether or not there will be an interview, and once missing, the interview is over, while the Prime Minister is not happy to walk and nothing is going on. [[10.30 hours]] I would like to point out that Prime Minister Babiš responded to our joint interpellation that we will definitely meet in 2020. Since the beginning of the year, however, he has not appeared on written interviews and even verbally said that he will not walk at all. I guess I'm not the only one who's noticed some insurmountable logical contradiction in these answers. It would be great if some representative of the government coalition were able to explain to us how compatible the statements are that the Prime Minister is coming or not coming at all in 2020. And if we're to understand that the first answer is coming at least once in 2020, could someone at least tell us what meeting we're supposed to be waiting for? A month, a quarter, a half, at least approximately? I asked the Prime Minister to introduce us to his programme between 13 February 2020 and 9 July 2020, or in the first half of 2020, what programme he has at the time of his written interventions. Unfortunately, we didn't get any specific answers. By letter dated 2 March 2020, the Prime Minister replied that he knew that his absence from written interventions was troubling us. In addition, he added that given the extent of the expected and exceptional work obligations, he was unable to confirm precisely. So the Prime Minister said he wouldn't walk, then he said that I would definitely see him, and then he said that he couldn't tell us when he would fly during the first one in those terms of intercession. Not a single term within the first half of the year was reserved for written interpelations. The Prime Minister also told us, in his message, Hi, people, that he doesn't understand what these written interpelations are for. Sadly, the Prime Minister does not understand even the most basic instruments of our constitutional constitution. I suggest you let someone explain it to him. Maybe from a first-year political student. I would almost say that a student of the first year of nuclear physics, vet or sculpture could explain this to him, because there is no science to understand that when the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, it is also intended to answer the Members to their interpelations. When we discussed this with the Prime Minister here in the oral interview, the Prime Minister said that we were working together on a slippery mandate. However, it is not the duty of a member of the government to respond to interpelation. This concerns the fact that the member of the government does not have to fulfil his duties as a Member, so it has nothing to do with it. And the Prime Minister obviously doesn't realize that the role of a member of the government is linked not only to the right to intervene in what is going on within the government mechanism, even with regard to, say, its subsidies, which is happening now, isn't it? There has been a rapid increase to three times the subsidy for Agrofert after the Prime Minister has entered politics. But it also involves the obligation to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is responsible when Members interpel him there. So, of course, we're working on some optimization, we're discussing it with the YES movement, how to improve the functioning of the House, make the negotiations more effective so that the interpelations are brought together into the blocks that ministers can go to, and they can be prepared to negotiate so that they don't have to sit here on unrelated topics and the like, but the law will apply exactly the same way that the prime minister of interpelation when they're assigned will have to go. On Facebook, the Prime Minister referred to a study by the Parliamentary Institute on the system of interpelation elsewhere in Europe, saying that most countries in Europe have had an interpelation resolved more effectively and that the written interpelation should only be answered in writing, and what is the debate to do then? Then I ask if he has read even one page from this study. It would read that in some countries they know the concept of interpelation only by having a debate on the written question in plenary. He would even read that in some countries the discussion of written interpelation in Parliament is so important that it is linked to the question of government trust. Dissatisfaction with the response to interpelation can be equal to the fall of government, as is needed in Finland, France, Slovenia, Lithuania, Latvia. So when the Prime Minister put a reference to a study he obviously hasn't read into his super-long status, it's kind of funny. Of course, we know the models of interpellation in other countries, not only the famous British model, where we are willing to inspire in a lot of things. It is not just a question of regulation, of the Rules of Procedure, etc., it is a question of particular political culture and pride for us as Parliament, Chambers, Chambers of Deputies, not to be satisfied with the fact that a government, which, in principle, is a separate institute and is controlled by the Chamber of Deputies, is opposed to the House of Deputies in a disdainful way. We have been talking here with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Vondráček, about talking to the Prime Minister about improving his participation in the written interventions of the record 11.5 %, that is, 90 per cent of the Prime Minister does not go to written interpelations, and I would like the President of the Chamber of Deputies to speak to us about what we discussed at the Grémie of the Chamber of Deputies in order to discuss with the Prime Minister the failure of his duties under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. If we do not actually get a credible answer, then we will have to take steps that, in my view, are unnecessarily strict, but in this respect, if the government's inaction continues, it is inevitable, and this is the convening of an extraordinary meeting, where only the interpelations will be discussed, only the opposition's proposals and where a resolution will be proposed that the Prime Minister is obliged to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as a result of the fact that he does not attend those interpelations in 90 percent. But most of all, I am fascinated by the logic of the Prime Minister. He brazenly admitted to us that he didn't understand what written interpelations were for and that he wouldn't go to them. So if the law says something and I don't understand what it's for, I can just blow it off. That's the Prime Minister's logic. Is that supposed to inspire citizens? Let's imagine it in the driver's room. I don't know why there's a 50 on the road, it seems like a clear stretch to me, so I'm going 100. Or I don't understand why there's a ban on one beer or one glass of wine on the bike path, so I can have a little more. Great logic! However, I believe that the law is based on the fact that everyone in society respects it, even if they may have a different opinion or they do not always understand the perfectly intention of the legislator or constitutionalist. Please try to think for a moment what it would look like in the world if everyone thought about law like Andrej Babiš. Or maybe there's something else behind all this. Interpelations are the only time when the Prime Minister is standing face-to-face with Members and does not set himself rules or scope or topic of debate. Maybe he's afraid, maybe he knows he's missing arguments, maybe he just doesn't want to deal with it. He can't hide behind his media here during his interviews, behind his devoted editors, for his generously paid piercers. There's no "Hi" people written here that can help him, and that's why he might feel weak, so he doesn't even come here. Then it would probably be true that he is the most cowardly Prime Minister of Europe, because the others are not afraid of interpelling and come to expose themselves to the unpleasant questions of the opposition and defend government policy and make childish excuses for not understanding what these interpelations are for. [[10.40 hours]] I would like to remind myself why there is a debate in plenary on those written interventions with which Members are dissatisfied, and they are not all of them. This is because, if there is an argumentary contradiction between a Member of Parliament and a member of the Government, it is decided by Parliament's plenary. Each Member then has the right to get to know both the arguments of the Member and the Prime Minister and to assess whose side the truth is on. And you all know very well that sometimes the Chamber of Deputies will actually disagree with the answer. And this is indeed a fundamental and important element of parliamentary government control. Governments responsible and derived from Parliament. If written interpelation merely meant that a Member and a Member of the Government exchanged letters, then this institute would have no meaning. We have all been treated, for example, in Section 11 of the Rules of Procedure, when a Member has the right to ask for an explanation. At the same time, the debate on written consultations is an opportunity for important issues to be raised in the House plenary and discussed, and so as to appear in the public space within the parliamentary debate, where the Rules of Procedure predict it. This is how it works in many parliaments of the world, and this is an inherent part of Parliament. We can put it here, and I've already done it, a bunch of examples of why the question wasn't discussed, because the Prime Minister didn't come to work, or maybe he was afraid to come to work. These were completely substantive interpelations, such as housing issues, discounts on fare for disabled people, when great injustice occurred. We have already mentioned the question of duplication of controls, which has been postponed for six months, or socially excluded localities. The Prime Minister didn't come for a quarter of a year, and then the interpellation was over. Now I want to turn to colleagues from ČSSD and KSČM. First of all, I must begin by thanking the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Hamáček, for arriving today at a written interview. I think this is a responsible and proper approach from a member of the government who is willing to answer questions from his colleagues. And we can't say that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček doesn't have a busy schedule, he doesn't do his duties, he doesn't participate in negotiations all over the world. This, like the Prime Minister, has these responsibilities and is able to find a place in his programme for the Chamber of Deputies and for interpelation in the Chamber of Deputies. I also want to thank the ministers who came to the written interview. Perhaps Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček could serve as a role model because a member of the government who can manage two ministries and even go to written interpelations, maybe he should be Prime Minister instead of Andrej Babiš, if he can manage his duties so well to combine. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] So, colleagues from ČSSD and KSČM, you now support the government, but otherwise you were in a situation that you yourself needed to use the Institute of Interpelation. Many of you are using it now. Doesn't it bother you that the Prime Minister is brazenly ignoring him? That he even publicly declares that there's no point and that he won't be coming here anymore? When you're on the other side again and the Prime Minister tells you, "I'm not gonna answer your interpelation, I don't give a shit about the laws, I don't care about your head," it's gonna be too late to say why we didn't stand up for the constitutional principle of interpellation then, as long as we could. I would like to hear from ČSSD and KSČM representatives here whether they believe that 90 per cent is in order in the case of written interpelations or whether they sign up to support the principle that government officials should respect their responsibilities towards Parliament, whether they like it or not, as Vice Prime Minister Hamáček might do. And now I will turn to the YES movement. We don't want to keep anyone here, we don't want to force the sněmovna to do dozens of votes on each individual interpellation. It is enough for us to hear here from the YES movement in the debate, for example from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, that they respect the principles of parliamentary democracy that Andrej Babiš promised in his treaty with the citizens, that he recognizes the responsibility of the Government in the Chamber of Deputies, and that therefore all the representatives of the ANO movement in the Government should fulfil their responsibilities towards Parliament, as Mr Havlíček, who sits here and is ready to answer the questions of the Members, does. I know no one here can speak for Andrej Babiš to come here. But there is no doubt that we can hear the declaration that we should simply go to oral and written interpelations and that they will appeal to the Prime Minister to make amends. Several of our Members here in the debate can give a concrete example of how important issues did not come about just because the Prime Minister is walking (?), but we will wait patiently for the appearance of someone from the government coalition who will at least tell us the most basic thing, that laws should be respected, that parliamentary democracy is important to all of us here and that we want to return to its proper functioning and that all government officials are accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u31	I thank Mr Michálek. Mr Adamec is now duly registered, but Mr Jaroslav Kytýr's point of fact. My colleague, just a moment longer, a point of fact comes first. Mr Kytýr will certainly respect the time set out in the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I am, of course, sorry, in the course of a normal discussion I would have just one comment on Mr Michálek through Mr President, and that there is actually a debate here, and a number of our colleagues are actually burdened with your political statements. I think the Institute of Interpellation is supposed to have a material and content page that somehow brings us answers to certain questions. And at this point, in fact, both the Institute of Interpellation - similarly we are talking about the abuse of technical remarks on these matters, where instead of having a practical conversation, it really turns into a political statement that you're burdening us with unnecessary burdens. I would like us to really have this matter on some other plenary than to waste our time here on these matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u33	Thank you for keeping time. And I must say, I did not want to take advantage of the Rules of Procedure, but my colleague Adamec will have to wait much longer now, because I knew that one factual remark would raise another. So I'm going to draw the order of factual remarks. Ivan Bartoš, Jakub Michálek, Jan Zahradník, Petr Třešňák. All right, gentlemen. A colleague of Bartoš now. Real notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I greet pirates who are here in abundance because they have their interpelations. I would ask my colleague through the President - that is not the case. The interpelations are very specific. I have a problem with the Prime Minister right now. We were supposed to meet at the end of March, now we're debating a meeting on the subject of execution. I want to ask you a lot of things that the Prime Minister, who is selectively in the media debate, so I could meet him twice in public debate, once there was some super-disbat who just gives his messages through the media. It is true that he sometimes meets some Members on a specific subject. So where else can we ask very specific questions? Jakub Michálek spoke here - the future of the Czech EU Presidency - we do not have an answer. Expelled locations - we don't have an answer. Things available for housing where there is no coordination between ministries - we do not have an answer. European subsidies, negotiations on the framework of European subsidies, you have cut us off at the House's classic meeting, you have not included this point. When else can Members turn to the Prime Minister than at the moment of the intercession, both written and oral? We're talking that the Prime Minister isn't here. We would like you, as an MP, to arrange for the Prime Minister to respond to these interpelations, not to be 11 percent attendance, which is really pathetic, or to be at least as tactful as he's throwing himself out of his hoops or campaigning somewhere, whether at the moment we have almost 20 MPs here for Pirates with interpelations, he doesn't put his team on Facebook photos - right now in Karlštejn, right now in Litvínov on hockey. That's ridiculous. I'm considerably younger than the Prime Minister, but I dare say I'm offended, too, and I'm not sensitive. Then please don't turn this place against the fact that we're stalling here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Michálek's point of view. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u36	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to the fact that we don't deal with it in other forums. That's what I said in my speech that we were discussing at the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies a month ago. And nothing's happened since then. And you're saying that we're not dealing with important things here, but that doesn't strike you as a major issue, as a major problem, that in 90 percent of the cases, the Prime Minister doesn't show up for a written interview and instead admires Karlštejn? I was also in Karlštejn, and Karlštejn is, of course, great. But I was there on my own time, on the weekend, with my girlfriend, and not that I'm gonna go there during my written interviews, that's not gonna work. So that the Prime Minister doesn't go to a written interview is a major problem. This is the problem that we are dealing with here, and it is linked to it that, of course, we cannot discuss a million substantive issues that we, as Members, would like to address.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, Petr Třešňák will prepare himself. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u38	Mr President, I also want to turn against what an ANO fellow Member has said, who, of course, stands up for his boss, the Prime Minister, out of duty. [[Nesroz.]] The topics I come up with are not political issues, it is not politics. These are simply very serious topics of our future, energy self-sufficiency and security and, of course, what falls on us now from the European Union, the Green Agreement for Europe, or climate laws. The Prime Minister says he wants to sue the European Commission. Well, if he wants to do this without Parliament's support, without broad support in the House, that means not only with his people here in the coalition, or with the Communists, I think he's making a big mistake. When he shows that he doesn't care about these things, he doesn't come here to analyze his answer, so I consider that very bad, and I join the criticism of President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u39	I thank my colleague Zahradník for his time. Now, Mr Třešňák, Mr Holomčík will be prepared, also with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u40	Only through Mr President will I ask Mr Kytýr whether he would take a flash drive or a USB hard drive, I don't know, something like that, and he didn't record the audiovisual recording of the December 5, 2019 interview, because he will see how the Prime Minister responds to the really serious interpelation. And not only to stand up for fellow pirát, so at random. Mrs Kovářová asked there at the time, asking Mrs Majerová Zahradníková, Mr Čižinský, and neither one of the interpelations, which were factually interpelations, the Prime Minister did not answer. He was merely lecturing his political proclamations here. So don't blame the opposition for using interpelation for some kind of political play. It was the Prime Minister who made this use of the interpelation on December 5th last year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Holomčík, Věra Kovářová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u42	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a reputation - or a reputation. I read about the pirát that we are anarchists, that we are enemies of parliamentary democracy, and yet, if you look at it, the pirát here are defending parliamentary democracy from the Prime Minister who despises it. And I find it absolutely incredible that in the lower chamber of Parliament it is said that defending these principles, which are absolutely essential, is a waste of time. It's not that the Prime Minister despises the opposition. He has the right, even if it is wrong, but he despises the whole of Parliament. Mr President, he also despises you. Do you understand that? That's the problem. He despises 200 people who have a mandate from democratic elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Věra Kovářová, Václav Votava, Mr. Kytýr, Valenta and Jurečka, will prepare. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact. I am the tolerance myself, but I note that the factual point is the response to the speaker's speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u44	Yes, so I would like to respond to Mr Kytýr through Mr President. On December 5th, the Prime Minister answered me a little and asked me to bring him the lists of primary and kindergarten schools. I had to go to the Office of the Government because unfortunately I couldn't reach him here. About how you say we should deal with this on other diapers, so the Prime Minister has called on me several times, and I think other colleagues, too, so that we don't keep him here for plenary. The Chamber of Deputies and to deal with him at the cafeteria, so here we have a solution, but after all, it's some informal conversations. And we have to say that some of the interventions are coming from citizens, and they assume that we will raise their questions to plenary. So I think they're expected to expect the Prime Minister to answer and come here. So much for your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u45	Thank you, Mrs Kovářová, for keeping the time. Now, Mr Václav Votava, Mr Kytýr will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am very pleased that my colleague Michálek appreciated the presence of Vice Prime Minister Hamáček. He also turned to us if we don't mind that ministers or prime ministers don't go to interpelations. No, it doesn't. Personally, it bothers me. I'll speak for myself. And it's always bothered me. I've been here for some time in this Chamber of Deputies. There's been a mess going on around here. Well, I'm not some regular interpellent, but if, of course, I have an interpellation ready and I want to bring it in, and I want an answer, too, then I also want the minister to be here. So I don't like it. I don't like it at all. There's probably something wrong here, perhaps in the House's Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, of course, interspersing both in writing and orally is the honourable right of the Member, and the Minister or Prime Minister should certainly be here to intersect and answer. And he should answer, even if he doesn't like the interview, even though he's irritating him, I don't know what I'd call it, but he's supposed to answer. So this is it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u48	Thank you, Mr President. We obviously don't understand each other. In my words, I did not question the role of intercession, their importance and the need to discuss them in factual matters. That is why I also appreciate Mr Zahradník through Mr President, because his energy issue was important here and it was important to mention it and I was happy to hear it. Likewise, I may be one of the few Members who regularly attends the interview, and it bothers me that, on the contrary, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, used this forum to make a political statement and maybe a personal struggle between the opposition and the Prime Minister, because this statement did not enrich me at all during the interview, it was of no importance to me at all. But what I'm saying is, as I respond to everyone else, that the Institute of Interpellation is really important and I understand that every Member - and I also use this institute - is asking questions to answer them. I am not defending the Prime Minister here, but it is essential that you actually respect this plenary, including the Coalition Members, who come here to discuss substantive issues that will be raised in the intercessions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Valenta with a factual remark, then Marian Jurečka and Jakub Michálek. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Then I must join my colleague Votav. It bothers me, too, that the Prime Minister doesn't come here to interpel. I personally had a rejected written interpelation here, waiting for her for almost a year to solve it. But I would not commend Mr Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government, either. My colleague Ondráček, who clearly said that he had been waiting five months for his response, which is also not an ideal condition. So let's not praise the government so much. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] I think, yes, of course you're clapping, she's fine. But how do you deal with it? A colleague of Michálek here suggested an emergency meeting. You can't do that. We can basically make recommendations, suggestions to the government, but that's it. Mr Michálek, as a lawyer, should be aware - he spoke about political science here, so I will read him the Constitutional Court's decision: The relations between the power of the legislature, executive and judicial are arranged on the basis of the principle of division of power. The Constitutional Court notes: these three powers must exist independently of each other, which does not mean that they are not linked, but must be independent enough that one power cannot possess the powers of others. This balance between all three powers is the basis for the good functioning of the democratic system. A similar statement includes a finding of the Constitutional Court, etc. etc. It follows from the principle of division of power that neither the legislative authority, which is dominant in the parliamentary form of the government, is entitled to exceed the powers conferred by the Constitution, i.e. to intervene in the powers of the other institutions. The Constitutional Court states that the Chamber of Deputies must not interfere in any way with the executive powers, with the exception of the initiative or initiative. a recommendation. So, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, an extraordinary meeting does not address anything at all. Although amendments to the Constitution so that the government is obliged, or its members, to be obliged to come here. [[Nesroz.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Then I'll have to end this point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u52	Thank you, Mr President. If you look at those benches for me, there's not a single member of the government. [[- Not now.]] I think it's pretty symbolic of the debate we're having. Yes, it's not pleasant for a member of the government to go to interpellation. It's not a pleasant Thursday. But there are rules of procedure that say that Thursday this day is reserved, and it is one of the duties of a member of the government to attend these interpelations. If we look at the statistical data, it's clear. They're members of the government, and we need to say "thank you" here because they come here. Minister Havlíček - now here, Minister Vojtěch, Minister Schillerová, Minister Brabec are quite often here on these interpelations. Of course, I understand that the Prime Minister has a demanding program, a foreign program, I respect that. But I think that over the past 30 years, the Prime Minister, who not only walks little, but despises it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u53	[[He's coming in.]] So I'm tolerance alone, but I can't be tolerant to the Rules of Procedure Act. I interrupted you, Mr. Ambassador, at your performance. You have one minute to make a point of fact, I'll put it in the protocol of closing this item by written intercession. So, I'm sorry, but under the Rules of Procedure Act at 11 o'clock, I have to finish the reply to the written interpelations, so I'm gonna ask you to sit down, and you'll be the first to perform when we continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u54	Well, if you don't mind, I'm applying with priority rights to finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u55	Thank you. I will conclude this point, with the exception of those who were not present, with the exception of those who were not present, with the exception of: Mr Adamec duly, Mrs Balcarová and with the factual remarks of Mr Jurečka, Mr Jakub Michálek and Mrs Pastuchová. So this point is closed today and we will continue it on Thursday next week. That concludes the discussion of written intercessions. In addition, we will deal with other points in the agenda of the meeting and I will pass on the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u56	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. Now we should focus on the fixed points. I recall that this is paragraph 191, House Press 444, Ombudsman's summary report on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2018; paragraph 246, Information of the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for the Environment on the solution of bark sludge; paragraph 250, Report of the Minister for Agriculture on the management of the forestry crisis in relation to bark, and paragraph 256, Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the security of sufficient preschool and school education capacities including their financing. Then we would discuss the points from the contract block at second reading. In the afternoon, we'll be looking at paragraph 258, which is oral questioning. And now President Marian Jurečka with priority rights, President Jakub Michálek with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u57	Thank you. Mr President, I will just finish it. I will just say to the interpelations and the question of participation and the sense of interpelation that if they are able to walk here quite often also the vice-premieres of the government that I mentioned, and also Vice Prime Minister Brabec, when he was a vice-premier, I think that participation in the interventions of other members of the government could improve. And I also appreciate some members of the government's correct approach when they say it's a subject longer than a few minutes, that it's not a problem to meet them and discuss it in person. But it bothers me when the interpelations are dropped, they say it's a blabbermouth, there's no point in coming here, it's better to go to hockey. I don't think it's a normal attitude for a person to do the prime minister's job properly. And for Members of the KDU-ČSL, I ask rhetoric: Show me some of our interpellations that weren't specific and that somebody might call a blabbermouth. I don't recall any such interpelation during the time I've been in the House for the KDU-ČSL side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u58	Thank you. President Jakub Michálek with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u59	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to add one important thing, and I am glad that President Faltýnek is here too, that he will be able to hear it. I am responding to the words that have been said here that we have not enriched Mr Kytýr by discussing our written intervention here, why the Prime Minister of 90 percent does not attend written interpelation. We are not here to enrich Mr Kytýr, but we are here to defend the interests of citizens. And if the Prime Minister doesn't listen, we can't defend the interests of citizens. I think he should listen to the citizens, and we are here to lecture their interests within the Chamber of Deputies, which has legitimacy from the elections. And one more very important point. The Constitutional Court found that we have a division of power in our state. That, of course, is absolutely true. There's no way to argue with that. But it certainly does not mean that the Prime Minister should not have any competence to attend the Chamber of Deputies. And when I spoke of an emergency meeting, I spoke about Article 38 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, according to which a member of the Government is obliged to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of its resolution. This means that if the situation continues that the Prime Minister does not attend written interpelations in 90 per cent and therefore does not listen to the problems of the citizens who are speaking here, then it is appropriate for the opposition to convene an extraordinary meeting and there the Chamber of Deputies decided that the Prime Minister should attend the Chamber of Deputies' meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-001-257.u60	Thank you. I introduced you to the program as we approved it in the past few days. However, as at the beginning of each meeting day, I am asking whether one of the Members is interested in speaking with a proposal to amend the approved agenda of the meeting. There's no one like that, so we'll continue as I announced at the beginning. That means the point is next.
