ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I called this meeting following Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a proposal from the Government to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, April 1, 2020. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Jan Čižinský. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. If this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is for the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number one, 83 Members are currently logged in, for 82, against no one. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Jan Čižinský. I also note that Members who are not present at this time or who are not excused in writing are deemed to be excused, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. With the replacement card number 23, Mrs Červíčková and Mrs Pekarová Adamová vote. There. Members of Parliament, on 12 March this year, from 14:00, the Government declared in accordance with Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus, known as SARS-CoV-2, on the territory of the Czech Republic emergency state for a maximum period of 30 days. This period will expire on 11 April 2020 at 14 o'clock. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 1 April this year, the government asked the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. We will now proceed to our own agenda of the 43rd meeting, as shown on the invitation. We'll vote on the agenda. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that item 10 - amendment to the Budgetary Responsibility Act be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-000-000.u3	Mr President, this meeting will follow immediately after this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-000-000.u4	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-000-000.u5	President Bartoš is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-000-000.u6	I would just like the President, the President, not to mislead him, I originally wanted to propose one more point for this meeting. However, it would be unstandard. Of course, a government proposal would take precedence over this request. And I am, even after what was said in the media and what was said in my interview, for example, when I called Minister Hamáček when I wanted to ask him about some details, so I decided that the government should be able to present the plan that everyone is calling for in this matter. So my speech is rather what should be the content of a possible approved point, and not that I would be new - and we changed this view after careful consideration of what should be heard in the context of this point, so I want to give the government the opportunity to prepare. So it will be short, it is in the agenda of the meeting, and it concerns what will take place at the meeting. The esteemed government, honourable Members, has been five weeks since the Ministry of Health, through Minister Vojtěch, notified us of the first patient in the territory of the Czech Republic who was infected with Coronavirus. In the coming days and weeks, the vast majority of the country's population has found itself in a situation that none of us have ever encountered before. After a rather early, say, careful steps by the government, a series of relatively rapid measures came with a clear aim: not to embark on the path of the Italian scenario. Pirates have tried to be very cooperative from the start of the epidemic in relation to individual steps. We have tried to present smart and sensible solutions and have worked on amendments to help people who can literally find themselves on the street in some cases. And in the second line, we sewed, carried away cloths, and helped in a different way. At that point, the government began to declare the importance of working together with the opposition. But it certainly doesn't work on the part of the government. Our proposals are rejected or taken over in the modified version of the pier. And sadly, those practices that we've already gotten used to with this government are also being applied in a situation where we're in a state of emergency. De facto, this denies the declared procedure, we are in this together, which we see in a number of moments in relation to the government's actions. Moreover, the development of recent weeks has shown how the government solves a number of problems unsystematically, unmistakably, and how confused it communicates towards citizens, small entrepreneurs, handicapped, a whole group of people who are really at risk. We were one of the first to appeal to the government to publish a clear plan that they would present to the public, including several scenarios of possible future developments. Thus, scenarios explaining to retailers, service providers, companies, self-employed persons, single parents, many more what can be expected if the epidemic develops in one direction or another. When they can expect to open a store or place. Instead, we have information that the government is preparing to open business on the Green Thursday, the day before the Easter holidays, or conflicting information about the epidemic of the population, as we witnessed yesterday. [[10.10 hours]] Why am I saying all this? We, too, represent a large group of people who have given us their votes and continue to trust us not to let them down. They turn to us after hundreds asking for help, the one asking for an explanation, every day. It's not really a few people. However, the government is not making our work easier. It is not always easy for people to answer, even because we MEPs of all parties and above all the public do not have a clear plan from the government with clear parameters, dependent (?) as opposed to a pandemic plan that would give many peace and some also showed the famous light at the end of the tunnel. And on this basis, we are going to the next meeting to discuss, and the government is asking us to extend the situation. I've been looking into my files for this meeting. There are proposals for about 15 laws to be discussed for the next meeting, but some document, which could be called a future development plan, I have not seen, we are here to see various statements. I really believe that, during the negotiations of the first and only point in this meeting, the government will present this plan. And if that does not happen, I do not propose to place a new point, but I propose a resolution in which the House will ask the Government to present this plan, if any, within the framework of a resolution in which the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to do so by 20 April 2020. It introduced both Members and the public to a specific government plan for both the management of coronavirus and its consequences in the Czech Republic. So it's the day before the House's next proper meeting. We ask for four essential things: Transparent plan for current and long-term supply of health resources and their distribution to health facilities, social services and other necessary groups, and what is also the involvement of Czech companies in this process. Secondly, the development of the number of infected and other criteria according to which the government is considering the individual release of restrictive epidemiological measures or their implementation. Thirdly, clear, predictable overall measures by which the government wants to mitigate the economic effects of this crisis, including the planned compensatory mechanisms. Even today, a lot of people aren't clear about it. I don't know if it'll be better after this meeting and the next meeting. Fourthly, a clear presentation of measures to reduce risks or variants of a new wave of a possible pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic. I sent the motion for this accompanying resolution today to President Michálek, who went to the Grémium. I have decided not to complicate the discussion of this meeting, not to place a new point. I therefore call for this accompanying resolution if the Government does not present this plan to us, not to the Members, but also to the public, in the context of the discussion of the proposal for an extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-043-01-000-000.u7	Mr President, did I understand that you are not proposing anything on the agenda? Then I must warn you that your motion for a resolution must be heard, as it should, in the debate on that point, and we are now first approving the agenda. If I call my colleagues all on the agenda, but I hope that we are all present and in sufficient numbers, and we will vote on the proposal for the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 107, for 104, against no one. I do not know if there has again been a slight deviation from the agreement of Members present. The proposal has in any case been approved and the agenda has been approved. We'll continue on his terms. So I'm opening up the only point that is
