ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 43 and 44 /house prints 669 and 92/ On handover, I was determined that Vice-President Okamura was the first to be logged in with priority rights. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the European directive here, because I have had a 20-year license and I have been an active member of the sports shooting club, so I am actually affected by these proposals. And the fact that the European Union is presenting a directive to us here, which is still being presented by the government, is written here by a government amendment to the law - that is indeed, I must say, from the point of view of us shooters almost peak, in a negative sense, of course. Because this is precisely the salami method where the European Union, the legal holders of arms, is actually gradually taking away our rights. So first it was weapons, then it's ammunition, then it's weapons again, and now this directive is proposing, and now the government is going to agree not to have a weapons license for ten years, but it's been for five years, which means we have to go over and over again, even though the Czech Republic has no problems with legal arms holders. So here we are again, us who are fulfilling our obligations, and the rules for obtaining an arms license in the Czech Republic are very high quality, and it does not cause any problems with other countries within Europe, so it just needs us - I want to say the word "faggot," and so I'm going to say it in the end, I wanted to say it a few seconds ago, but okay, so it's really very annoying. Well, in this light, on the other hand, there's a series going on, I'd say, terrorist attacks in Western Europe that mostly Muslims commit with illegal weapons, and there's nothing going on here. On the contrary, we are being called here, as you know, and this year again, the Western European country plan for the reception of illegal migrants to Europe has been introduced. [[15.00 hours]] So, on the one hand, illegal migrants are taking a major part in increasing crime in Europe, and, on the other hand, we, the legal holders of arms, are trying to persect the European Union. And what's even worse, of course, and it has already been said that the Czech Republic has tried very correctly. We called on the Czech Republic to do so. And, of course, the EU's total dictatorship has been confirmed, it has been confirmed that we are not a sovereign and rightful country, and the European Court has dismissed our action under the threat of sanctions of up to CZK 4 million a day, unless we simply implement this directive that restricts legal arms holders. We see it here again, and we should be straight with the fact that we are losing sovereignty under the dictation of Brussels. And I call once again for all of you to agree on our bill of referendum, which has been here for three years again, and the situation from the last parliamentary term is repeated, when I have put it in vain. Here most parties in the Chamber of Deputies promised before the elections to the House that they would be in favour of some bill of referendum. Finally, we are nearing the end of the parliamentary term, the elections to the House are already in October next year, and that there is a referendum law going through, it is not in sight. So you and the citizens will not give the opportunity to vote on our membership or our withdrawal from the European Union. On the other hand, at the same time, you can see how the European Court is here, and this is not the first time, it was also about their quotas, when the European Court ruled, it was also this year, it decided that, in fact, by not agreeing with the mandatory quotas, we are once again violating the law of the European Union. So it's one dictation after another. One dictation of the European Union after another against our national interests. Now we're trying to get out of this somehow, or the other political parties are trying to get out of it somehow, from this directive, from this judgment where the European Union threatens us with that astronomical fine if we don't give in to dictation. And none of you, except the SPD, can say, "That's enough! Let us once again be a sovereign and free country, which will determine the rules as it suits citizens. So I would like to say that the government's amendment to the firearms that we have here and which responds to this European directive essentially limits the holders of historical weapons, impaired weapons, simply solves the problems that we did not have here in the Czech Republic, we do not have these problems, but the European Union creates these problems, points to decent and orderly people, and simply in this way it thwarts people. So we, as the SPD movement, as far as the government amendment to the Firearms Act is concerned, are fundamentally opposed, that's the implementation. That's what I was gonna say for us. Since my colleague, Mr Radek Koten, there will still be a motion to reject the press 92, which is a government amendment to the Firearms Act, this is the directive of the European Union so that we do not mix it with the second proposal, which we are co-authors and which, therefore, is hardly hot, is trying to correct the dictatorship of Brussels so that we can move in any way. Of course, that's just the patching of the biggest holes. The system solution allows a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU and let citizens decide whether they want to continue to be in such a union at all. And that's what we, as the SPD, advocate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u3	The Minister, Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, is registered with priority rights, but I have here with Mr. Holík's point of fact, if that's true? Deal, please, Mr. Ambassador. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u4	Mr President, my fellow ministers, my fellow Members, I live alone. I've been robbed twice. Then I got my gun license. I've had it for over 20 years, I've never abused it. And if I were to be alone without a weapon, I would consider it a defense of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u5	Thank you. Please, the Minister in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u6	That's exactly what I was hoping wouldn't be here. At the beginning of the press conference, here in my performance, I said no one here is taking anybody's guns. And the MP's already saying how we're gonna take his gun away from him. This pistol will not be taken from you, Mr President, except for a doctor if he finds out that you do not meet some medical requirements. But I originally performed on what my colleague Okamura said here. I also submit that I'm in conflict of interest because I'm in possession of a weapons license. And I don't feel bullied or restricted. Perhaps it would be worth it if a colleague of Okamura, who stood here as a member of the shooting public, felt bullied and persecuted here by the evil European Union, if he came out here and said what, therefore, specifically limits him as Okamura's shooter in those two laws. I am ready to discuss this and, if necessary, we can apply an amendment at second reading. But to say that the evil European Union is restricting everyone here, including Vice-President Okamura, so I wonder what exactly Vice-President Okamura as the shooter is limited by these two laws, and we can talk about it. I understand that someone may have a problem with shortening the term of the gun licence, but first of all, it's the amendment, and secondly, I don't know if it's that totalitarian to ask people who have a gun license and can kill someone once every five years, if they're healthy, if anything's changed with them. That's what I'm ready to discuss. But I wonder what we're all doing here to limit Mr. Okamura's shooter, and he's gonna answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u7	Thank you. We switched so the dialogue could take place. Vice-President Okamura with a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u8	I would have responded here to Minister Hamáček. You can see how selfish you are. Unlike you, I'm not selfish, and I'm not just thinking about myself. So I'm going to read you what it's limiting, because I'm a little upset that the Home Secretary here has to be taught to know what the contents of the law you have in mind. And I'll read it to you from the information of the Chamber of Deputies' Office, so you won't suspect me again of some nonsense you're saying. So, according to the amendment, they will fall into a new category of legally owned weapons, where owners, for example, have not yet had a reporting obligation. So, new restrictions, huh? And they didn't have to be registered. For example, historical weapons, damaged weapons. Newly, these weapons will belong to a more stringent category. Next. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Well, it's right here, I'll show it here, information from the Chamber of Deputies Office. You're shaking your head, so maybe you're twisting it like that. Come in. In connection with the shortening of the period of validity of the weapons licenses from 10 to 5 years, it is expected that you will have to apply for the arms license instead of 10 to 5 years. And then there's the clips. So I've given you two things here that limit it. Unlike you, I'm not fighting for myself here, I'm fighting for 300,000 weapons license holders. I care about all of us because we shooters feel loyal to each other and we're just, we're just on the same deck, we're just on the same boat. And you're asking me what I'm personally. That is the difference between you, Minister, that you say me, me, me. But I say we, we shooters. I fight for all my colleagues I know. And I have a lot of colleagues who just, and I know them, have, like, historical weapons. So I hope I've answered you, and I've answered enough. I preferred to quote you so that you wouldn't think that I wasn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u9	Time. Mr. Růžička just reported, but I don't know if it was for debate or... Well, with priority rights, Mr... Sorry. A real electronic note, Mr. Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u10	I would really just like to ask Mr Okamura, through Mr President. I'm also a holder of a legal weapon, and Mr. Okamura doesn't speak for everyone here. Definitely not for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u11	Thank you. Now Member Růžička with a point of fact, then with a priority right vice-chairman... Real notes come first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u12	Mr President, fellow Members. I would also respond to Vice-President Okamura. He was quoting it a little bit like a weird way around here. I'm the holder of several weapons, I'm the holder of an arms license, I sell weapons, of course, at the time of the parliamentary mandate, I'm closed. But with weapons holders and those who bought weapons, I was in daily contact and, of course, with various associations such as LEX - whom I would like to thank, by the way, for the perfect preparation and suggestions for the amendment of this law - I am in contact. As Mr Okamura says, the new category C1 for damaged weapons is being introduced, and as it is all complicated, this directive requires reporting obligations. The conditions are set so freely and there are no sanctions at all from their non-compliance that in principle the D-category weapon regime, where the damaged weapons are included today, is maintained. Moreover, these are only weapons that have been damaged under the directly effective European regulation since April 2016. [[Nesroz.]] These weapons are very, very, very few in the Czech Republic. But, of course, I'm going to join the debate and explain to Mr Okamur the continuity of this law on practice, because maybe the arms dealer has a duty to train the shooter and lead them to know when they have a weapon, how to handle it and how to obey the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u13	Now... okay, so, Mr. Secretary. [[Minister Hamáček and Mrs Černochová are arguing who has the right to speak earlier.]] Well, you both have it, so make a deal. Wait a minute, we still have Mr. Top 09 Kalousek for the facts, so he'll be the first to speak. Then Mrs Jana Černochová will speak for ODS with priority rights. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u14	I am sorry, I will just be very brief with my request as a response to Mr Okamura. He said he's here fighting for 300,000 weapons license holders. By your means, Mr President, I would like to tell you that I own the weapons passport, and I will ask you to cross me off your list. You don't really fight for me, I don't agree with a whole series of your arguments, and I am convinced that there are many of us who hold arms licenses like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u15	Well, I'm cutting you off my virtual list, Mr. Chairman. But let's get serious. Thank you for complying with the Rules of Procedure. So I would like to give the floor to Ms Jana Černochová, the rapporteur. Please have the floor with priority rights and Minister Jan Hamáček will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u16	Thank you. I'm not acting as a rapporteur. I'd like to calm the debate down, because we've all worked a lot out of it. Everyone, everyone, from all sides, took part in a series of meetings where we were actually the proposal of the Members, which we called the superstructure law, so he treated himself so that we were in agreement. We know that we are not in agreement with the implementation of the directive. We've known that from the beginning. We also know that the amendments are prepared if, therefore, the proposal to which the ODS joins today does not pass, the proposal to reject the implementation, which I assume will not pass. That is how we are going to read the amendments, which will solve the things that Mr Okamura mentioned here, mentioned by Mr Hamáček, mentioned by Mr Růžička, and may even mention others on the list. I beg all of you, we are in agreement, we have a unique opportunity to show representatives of the shooting community, people who care about the security of the Czech Republic that we are able to face up to the problem that has occurred here so that we can solve it. And that, gentlemen, is why I call you to calm, to reason, to return the debate to where it belongs. Now I am not acting as rapporteur, I am speaking with the ODS club's position, and so let me introduce our position to you. You know, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I have repeatedly criticised the implementation directive, the press that we have under this number 92. So let me just remind you very briefly what preceded all this, why we're standing here today dealing with this as a problem. As has been done many times in the past, this time in some of the heads of the members of the European Commission, there has been a vision and a feeling that the weapon is an evil that belongs to no one, and certainly not a proven, law-abiding and in various ways guarded and controlled by legal holders of arms. So a draft directive was prepared, which was to be pulled out of the hat on an appropriate occasion. Unfortunately, the opportunity became days after the terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015, when they became completely irrationally arguing that we would best fight terrorists by disarming legal arms holders. Five days after the tragedy in Paris, which resulted in dozens of deaths and hundreds of injuries, the President of the Commission, Juncker, appeared in front of journalists and the public at a press conference and action conference and decidedly said that the security of citizens is essential to the current Commission, and therefore comes up with an amendment to the Arms Directive, the original one dated 2008. I mean, he wants to fight terror and illegal arms trafficking by brutally restricting legal arms holders. The proposed proposal was without exaggeration an imaginary spit in the face of those who follow the law, since the attempt to criminalize a certain part of society, stating that it is for our well-being and their good, is at least a flagrant example of the perverseness of crooked reasoning. Because, from the European Commission's point of view, if the strengthening of the fight against terrorism and illegal arms trafficking is based on the intention to oppress those holding a weapon legally, we must not be surprised that the European Union has been unable to face any security threats and crises in the long term and more effectively. Neither have the economics, and as we've seen in the last few months, nor the pandemics. In the past, we know many cases where, after moving weapons to illegality, such weapons become more desirable on the illegal, if you want the black market. That's just an undeniable fact, and this would, of course, be happening. The proposal was therefore presented by the European Commission. When we heard about it in the Chamber of Deputies, I tried here at the end of November 2015 - I came before the Chamber of Deputies and asked my colleagues at the time to include a point to carry out an analysis of the directive. I also tabled a motion for a resolution rejecting this directive, and I wanted to issue a proposal called a yellow card, which, together with negotiations with other countries, could ensure a blocking minority in the European Union. Unfortunately, this was vetoed by then members of this legislative body from the ČSSD and YES. At the time, Mr. Chovanc was made light of the fact that nothing is really going on, that nothing is happening to us, and we all see the results here. So waiting for the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament to come to an end was followed. Finally, they have amended the directive in the context of the negotiations, and it has recognised a number of changes and adjustments, including through the initiative of some MEPs across the political spectrum. For this I would also like to thank them very much, even if they complained about the undemocratic course of negotiations, because perhaps their proposals could not be heard in public anywhere, but it simply was not dignified. [[15.20 hours]] So what happened at the time of Sobotkův's reign. We had a real chance to undo the whole problem. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and we have not even had the opportunity to negotiate with other Member States that there should be more of us countries to oppose it. At least - and for that I would like to thank the ministers who worked on it, and the people from the Ministry of the Interior who prepared the lawsuit in cooperation with the people of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - filed a lawsuit before the Court of Justice. Yes, unfortunately, it happened that we lost it. In any case, our government has once again been called upon by the Chamber of Deputies, already by you, by existing Members, to initiate new negotiations on the European Union's grounds for adapting the directive meaningless and already in force, for some stupidities to fall out of it and, above all, for the European Commission to continue this trend. So here I have no information as to whether or not any negotiations have taken place, perhaps the Minister can supplement this, because now, of course, we are going to turn away some situation that has now occurred, but we do not know what will happen in the future, and we do not know how the European Union will deal with some restrictions in the future. Perhaps we have all lived in some hope that some attitudes will change after the European elections, and the Czech Republic will be given to other countries as an example of very good practice and legislation, because we really have very strict legislation in our country, very severe sanctions when it happens that some holder of a weapons license might inhale residual alcohol while driving a motor vehicle, so these are all immediate steps to withdraw an arms license. So, really, those holders, which I also belong to, I'm the holder of an A, B, E arms license, and I'm holding several weapons, so we really need to treat ourselves even more strictly than a number of ordinary citizens who don't have to deal with offenses. And if we're gonna be dealt with on the offenses section, we're really in danger of removing our weapons license, which none of us want to afford. [[Part of the Members on the left are gathering, part of the Members are talking loudly among themselves in the benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said here, as the Civil Democratic Party here, we will not stand idly by by the implementation of this directive, which we consider bad. On the other hand, we understand what the Minister has said here, and what I, as rapporteur, have said here in those figures that are terrifying, so there will probably be enough Members here who will accept the directive in the mini-mininovale without the Civil Democratic Party. On the other hand, we did not want to stand idly by the adoption of this directive in the original version, and with several colleagues and within our group across the political spectrum, we have prepared amendments that should improve what will be adopted. By the way, I have an amendment prepared that should maintain the validity of the arms licence for ten years. So, Mr Okamura, who mentioned this here, can support my amendment and do not have to worry about this being shortened. So much for the attitude of the Civil Democratic Party to the press 92. We will logically support the rejection, as suggested by my colleague Koten here. It's our long-term attitude. There were x options where it could have been handled differently. You didn't hear me with a yellow card, a red card. So our attitude is consistent. However, as far as the second House of the Press is concerned, House Press 669, where many of my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party are signed under this proposal, we will be very happy to support it, and we have worked together on it, because we believe that this standard is indeed needed. The citizen's democratic party supported, promoted the deepening of trust between the citizen and the state, whether it were various weapons amnestys that we had advocated and supported in the past. Defense and security aren't free, we all know it. It costs the efforts of many individuals who, by their work, behave every day, contribute to the safety of our country's population and defence. On the other hand, every citizen also bears his share of responsibility for the protection and security of himself, his family, his closest, communities, etc., when we can reach the whole country. Believe me, a number of people who are not indifferent to security and defence are aware of this, acting accordingly. And such citizens, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to appreciate, motivate such citizens, because those who want to participate actively in defence and security, but do not want or cannot join directly into the army, into active backup or security forces, are many. And anyone who wants to help should have a chance. And we give them this possibility with this bill proposal. By the way, active backups, many of these people, besides, of course, going through some training, have their civilian weapons, these people are also ready to participate in defending the country even after they may reach a certain age, when they can no longer serve in active backups, and it is a shame to lose them. But it's not enough either. It is not enough for policemen, it is not enough for soldiers, it is not enough for security forces in general and it would be a mistake to rely only on people who are close to the military. You know, our company has lost its basic instincts to deal with potential threats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u17	Well, yes, Madame is right, because the noise here is too much. So, please, calm down! I'm asking for peace one more time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u18	Thank you. That is why, in the ODS, we long-term want the preparation of the population for crisis situations to start at schools. If we are serious about defending our country and protecting the population, we need to introduce a comprehensive system that would teach a young generation to survive without modern technology and learn, for example, things like the foundations of first aid. There's been enough talk on this subject. I'm sure if the Secretary of Defense were to sit here, he'd remember that his department in this matter is now preparing one standard that we're going to have here, which is also fine. On the other hand, the fact that we should have a comprehensive system under the Ministry of the Interior, where the shooting preparation might also be possible, is a good option, because it is the Ministry of the Interior, which keeps all records of both the holders of weapons licenses and commissioners and, in fact, all the weapons that have legal holders. I believe that this bill - I am done - is another step towards enabling the involvement of those who want to defend their country and the security of their loved ones. That is why we should enable them to do so and create adequate conditions for them. And I really appreciate the fact that on such a difficult subject we were able to find a consensus in this Chamber of Deputies, and I hope that it will last us three full readings and, of course, that agreement will last us with our senators. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. On behalf of the Civic Democratic Party Club, I can promise you support for the House of Press 669 and support for the rejection of the press proposal 92.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u19	Otherwise, the rapporteur has preferential rights in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at any time, so you don't even have to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u20	I know, but I didn't want to abuse it, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u21	That's very kind of you. [[Fun in the hall.]] Mr. Secretary, there are two facts here. I'm sorry. So Mr. Josef Bělica will perform. No, you're interrupting. Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna, so wait two more minutes to see if anything pops up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u22	Thank you. I don't want to keep the Minister. [[- No, you're not.]] I would actually like to thank my colleague and the previous speaker who basically described it here. I'm just taking the liberty of making such a sneaky remark. Apparently, Daladier and Chamberlain signed the implementation decree and sent it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u23	And one more factual one, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, and Minister Hamáček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u24	I was very happy to hear the ODS' opinion. I fully agree, my colleague, you know that we can be in agreement on this matter, but you just mentioned that we would be very happy if the Ministry of the Interior could take up this future training and this because it is internal security issues. But as we can see today, the Ministry of Defence has been quicker and the Ministry of Defence is already launching some subsidy programs to support these defence societies for the future. So I'd like it if we could really get it to the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, the Ministry of Defense. But we're talking about Homeland Security - and you mentioned very well that the records are in the police - we're talking about Homeland Security, which means it's the Ministry of the Interior, and we'd like the Ministry of the Interior to set up some kind of subsidy program in the future, and we could, when it passes through this legislative circle, have it under the inside. I'd really rather see it under the inside. So it's just to fill in yours. Otherwise, what you said, I'm basically able to sign without any reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u25	I will read two apologies and prepare Minister Jan Hamáček. Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologizes from 15.20 hours to the end of the day for work reasons and the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 15.15 hours to the end of the day due to urgent work matters. And now, with priority right, Minister of the Interior Jana Hamáček and prepares... Mrs Jana Černochová no longer, you have already spoken, so Mr Marek Novák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u26	Thank you. I will be very brief because I agree with Mrs Černochová that it is necessary to move forward the matter that has actually been negotiated for a long time. But I just couldn't stay silent when we see a whole bunch of people spending their free time in order to find a solution, that is, to find a law that will comply with what we have to do, implement this directive and not at the same time harm or at least limit our shooting public, and then colleague Okamura comes flying in like a typhoon and declares that this is all wrong and that we should reject this directive. And the alternative is what? Step out of the European Union or pay 300 million crowns from the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. So I'd rather put 300 million crowns here on those grant titles like my colleague Ondráček wanted than send it back to Brussels! Your solution is to leave the European Union or pay 300 million to Brussels. I think we've found better!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u27	Mr Marek Novák will now appear and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I will not comment for myself on the House press 92, which concerns the implementation directive. I think that there have been enough debaters here, and I would rather tell you and ask for the support of House Press 669, which, from my point of view, is a very important standard, which is indeed more and more absent in our order. This is primarily to prevent the creation and functioning of paramilitary groups and militias outside public control. I fully support the association of citizens, but there is a need to clearly set up a legal framework for entities whose aim is to use weapons in their activities. We cannot allow subjects whose main idea can be any kind of hatred, whether to another race, nationality, or to a social group of people to emerge here. Personally, I meet associations that work with young people, which motivate their members precisely to social responsibility, love of homeland and democratic order of society. It is here that I see the sense of clear support for this activity. In addition to the main idea of the bill, other areas are addressed here, such as the introduction of the possibility of shooting preparation and the setting of a clear legal and professional framework. The authors have inspired, among other things, both good practice in subjects in the Czech Republic and the benchmark of neighbouring countries where a similar standard is already in place, and specifically in Switzerland and Israel. In the area of reducing the risk of misuse of products that can be used as weapons, the aim is to tighten the rules, especially in the time of the ongoing threat to the state, the crisis situation which we have also experienced. Last but not least, the aim is to enable persons in the position of a member of the Security Corps or similar persons with adequate weapons training to carry out their tasks effectively and to contribute to ensuring public order and security, even at a time out of service or outside working hours. And we know many cases where these very people have helped to save very different lives or the property of their fellow citizens. Finally, I will stress that the area of arms management is one of the most important, key areas of legislation in the security field. It's also a cross-section area. It represents the penetration of the entire state security policy. One of our most important tasks, as Members of Parliament, is to ensure the safety of the population. According to the famous Maslowův pyramid, safety is one of man's most basic needs. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you not only to impress people, but to take steps to make it even safer in our country. Thank you for the attention and support of the press 669.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u29	Mr Radek Koten will now appear and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this implementing amendment to the directive of the European Union, it is a print marked, or numbered 92, dealing with arms, restricts the market for legally held weapons and interferes with the internal affairs of the states within the Czech Republic's internal security. This is contrary to the law of the European Union. The arguments used by the European Commission to combat the ban on certain types of weapons with terrorism are totally odd, because criminals and terrorists always acquire weapons on the black market. This amendment targets decent citizens, legal firearms holders. We are against the dictation of the European Union, which wants to disarm decent citizens in the Czech Republic with an absolutely salami method, i.e. gradually. On the contrary, terrorism is supported by the European Union by an uncontrolled influx of millions of illegal migrants, former fighters of the Islamic State and jihadists. We see this right now at the borders of Greece and Turkey, how two members of the NATO Pact treat each other. That is why I am filing a motion for rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u31	Now Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová apologizes from 16.15 am to the end of the day for health reasons. So I'm going to make a note of the motion to dismiss, yes, and now I'm going to ask Mr. Jiří Kobza to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would also like to ask for the support of the draft arms law, House press 669, because I think it is a law that is very necessary, and actually, which I think should have been here by now. It is a law that creates a legal framework, which finally creates a legal framework for properly registered associations dealing with some kind of defence activity, hunting, shooting, historical shooting or historical actions, so that they can volunteer to participate and contribute to internal security and to the protection of the state. [[15.40 hours]] The Home Office, as has already been said here, which has all the documents and concentrates all the records of these people, has one other amazing thing. It has a regional structure because it has its own cops in virtually every village and, if necessary, when it is necessary to strengthen the police in certain areas or overall, it can then mobilize these registered associations or individuals in this area and strengthen the police in its patrol observation activities. That is necessary, we have seen recently in the past, when a series of robbery raids on villages in Prague-east around Jesenice, when in the end more or less civil patrol activity arose. We saw this during the Coronavirus crisis, when it was necessary to close the borders, it was necessary to close certain areas and the police did not have the strength to do so in themselves and needed to strengthen again. So I'd like to say one more time: The law is not directed against militias that function as registered societies under the law. On the contrary, it allows these associations to participate actively in the protection of the state and to strengthen internal security. And I therefore ask you to support this bill and release it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u33	I will now ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech, so far the last one entered in the merged general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President and.....dear government... [[He looks behind himself, but into an empty government bench]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u35	I see. We don't have a single minister here. So if you insist, I'm gonna put out a two-minute break, and I'm hoping that some of the ministers will be here. So I'll see you here at 15.44. [[The hearing was suspended at 15.42 pm. At 15.43 the Minister of the Interior came to the hall and immediately the Minister of the Environment, Mr Luzar wanted to continue, but the President pointed out that the break was until 15.44 and some Members would like to come. The negotiations continued at 15.44 hours.]] So it's 15.44. I'll read the apology, we'll continue. Mr Jan Čižinský apologizes today from 15.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. And Mr Leo Luzar continues. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u36	Well, thank you again for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this bill we are discussing today. First of all, I have to announce a conflict of interest because I am the holder of an arms license, I am a shooter and also a member of a sports shooting club, so it is in my intensities to promote this proposal, especially press 669, which solves quite a lot of problems that the shooting public encounters today and daily. Let me take a short tour of the past, when we are - and here I admit, yes, we politicians have neglected to prepare for what is about to happen in Europe. We have not followed the action properly with regard to European arms legislation, preparatory work, and now we are pulling the shorter end of the rope that is ahead of us, and we feel from all sides that the European Union has decided to go a certain way that we, the shooting public, do not like. The first proposals that came from the European Union, and the debates surrounding the implementation, have shown that the Czech Republic is often left alone in efforts to maintain some level of acceptance for Czech citizens of weapon legislation. Ironically, many European Union states go so far as to ban knives, kitchen knives, forbids closing knives that can be opened with one hand, goes into details that are unthinkable for us, such as defensive sprays, which are commonly used for example to scare a rabid dog, etc., so also these are prohibited and citizens are punished for having them, without needing reason, simply having this spray in my purse when going out of a concert somewhere in the evening, and it is punished for having it. This is what I think is ad absurdum, a situation that the European Union has not thought of, which the European Union is trying to push through under the impression of terrorism, and some of the escape routes that it offers in this discussion are proving to be absolutely useless. Because the European Union is going the way it says: states that have quite a strong tradition in the armedness of their citizens, i.e. for example, Switzerland, even if it is not part of the European Union, but falls within the Community and the law would also apply to them, possibly. Scandinavian countries or Nordic countries, which have quite a strong tradition in hunting matters related to nature, where the weapons also belong, are, as they say, the shift of the law, on the other side of the dorm. There is a clear tendency, and I am going back to the beginning, and I thank the Minister and especially the Ministry of the Interior as such, because it is not only the Ministry's merit, but the merit of the officials who have received the task and who are to write a new proposal for weapon legislation of the Czech Republic for a quality work done. And this well-done work is based on the fact that on one side there is a directive of the European Union which we are obliged to implement under strong sanctions that the European Union can apply for non-application, and on the other hand, the public with the only interest involved, which are friends of arms and ammunition, when I call it with big quotes, i.e. about 300,000 holders of arms licenses who feel limited in their civil rights and feel threatened as a quite large group of people with a common hobby, a common interest. Bill 669 is a good proposal. If there's someone here and they say it's a bad proposal and that something more could have been gained, something could have changed, I don't think they're quite right. The proposal presented to us certainly deserves attention and deserves to be approved. I assume that the amendments that will be in future readings will rather address the techniques and issues associated with the application of this proposal in practice. I myself draw attention to certain legislative errors associated with the possibility of shooting lovers of a long shot, so-called. snipers, if I call it lay, but rather long distance shooters, who do not have much space in the Czech Republic to use military raids to use military rifles, because they are civilians and cannot shoot there, because there is some order of the Ministry of Defence that says that a civilian can't shoot, even if those who manage these raids and gun range military, say - we wouldn't mind, it's even for the benefit of the defence education and exercise of these backups, often they're active military backups. Still, they can't. And these are the things that yes, we can modify in further readings of this law. [[15.50 hours]] What bothers me personally and I perceive is that we will have to deal with this law repeatedly, because the efforts of the European Union show that further intervention is being prepared in the rights to hold a gun, to hold ammo, further intervention in the civil liberties of those who have chosen this hobby. And this intervention, whether it concerns so much declared lead, or once again the intervention of trying to ban weapons that have the appearance of military weapons. But what weapons don't have the appearance of military weapons? Let's face it. And we're gonna have to go back to being under a lot of pressure. I therefore see this proposal as a very good proposal that addresses the issue in the Czech Republic. I will welcome the proposals that will lead to the adoption of this law without any major complications in all three readings. At the same time, I welcome the initiative of the senators who are preparing a proposal to establish a certain right to be able to defend themselves in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This is what I think deserves attention and thanks - the Senate's decision to prepare and give the House for discussion. And I firmly believe that, as part of the second reading, we will be returning to really specific matters, we will forgive the political part of rhetoric and we will try to contribute to the Czech Republic being once again identified in Europe as having a very liberal arms and ammunition law, but also very strict and very good, so that we can be an example and a model for the whole of Europe in the process of going and going on this issue. In conclusion, I thank the Ministry of the Interior once again, especially the workers who participated in the bill. They didn't have an easy job. And I firmly believe that even in this House, we will work with this law, as they say, in this view, too, that it is not a law that would be raised directly by our needs. We must confront it by simply having some tendency in Europe, and we will look for ways to find a compromise and bring about a good law within weapons and ammunition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u37	I now have two applications - Mr Klaus will make a point of fact and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared in the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u38	Hello. Would I respond to all the previous speakers and all the other members of the House of Commons in a factual remark, even though you don't feel slightly schizophrenic? Here, one by one, you defend - and very rightly - the right to hold a gun, our weapon culture. And then you always say "b," but now the directive, so I guess we'll just have to accept it somehow. Isn't it really a systemic solution to terminate the Treaty of Lisbon and not to be ordered by someone else what we want? After all, the Government of the Czech Republic has even spoken against the gun directive, and it has even driven it to a European court, which, of course, we have lost logically. So the government doesn't want it, the shooters don't want it, the vast majority of the MPs here don't want it, at least based on the way they perform, but the result is that in the end, we're going to sort of approve it like a loser. You can't be pleased with this. In 20 years, you'll be lying on your deathbed, and there you'll remember how you discussed the weapons, for example, and then finally you voted for it because we have to. The pride of the Czech MP at zero. I've performed for this several times, but it's a matter that's essential. Of course, we will not support the directive. We don't support any. But here, the schizophrenia of the vast majority of honored colleagues doesn't stop fascinating me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u39	I now have the last application from Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. So one more de facto jumped in. But it's from your colleague, so Mr. Leo Luzar to de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u40	I'm sorry, I don't mean to be upset about what was suggested here, but I have to respond to what was said here. I really do not think that this law is exactly the law on which we should initiate civil disobedience and the so-called czexite, as some suggest, as my previous speaker here through Mr President. Because, of course, civil society also has supporters of this process. A lot of people here are sympathetic so citizens don't have guns. And I honor it. Yes, they have concerns, maybe they have a negative experience. However, they remain in that plane yes, the Czech Republic has some laws and follows them. I'm not really convinced that this particular law and 300,000 shooters - among them I count - are the ones on which we should break the stick. However, it is a serious warning to everyone, especially in the European Union, that there is dissatisfaction with activity in this area. And I think that this signal, which is called for here, the pride of Czech citizens and Czech legislators, is quite clearly and clearly said here. And I firmly believe that the European Union also hears it and it will be evaluated and this is how it will be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u41	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now appear. It's the last application I have so far. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u42	Thank you, Mr President. In short, I will respond to my previous speaker. You see, though two from one club, we may have a different opinion. I would say to the European Union that the internal security issues are ours and should simply not interfere with it. That is why I was also in favour of the European Court hearing. And that we lost, of course, I don't like it. That is why I say for myself that I will support Mr Koten's proposal, which means rejecting House press 92, despite the threat of sanctions, because it must be stopped somewhere. And my colleague says it's not exactly the reason. I can see the reason. I'm also a shooter, also a possession of several weapons. And I just don't like it. But, of course, I also understand that the second part of the public would be best if there were no weapons. And I think the world would be more beautiful if there were no weapons and there was nothing but peace, peace and order. But a criminal weapon is anything that makes an attack against the other more forceful. And it may also be Mrs Jana Černochová's lady purse, which has its three pounds, because we know what women carry in there, and if she pulled us over with her purse, some weaker individuals wouldn't have to breathe it anymore. [[Fun and reactions in the hall.]] So it's just to lighten up. I will support Mr Koten's proposal, even if I know, or I suspect that this proposal will not pass and we will look into it. And that is why I was part of that working group where we formed House press number 669 and modified the original proposal of the Ministry of the Interior. We have worked on this for tens of minutes, perhaps even hours, before we put it into a state that we have allowed you to submit as a group of Members and which was introduced here by our colleague Dr Mašek. It was also mentioned what awaits us here. It must be said that these two prints in the framework of the joint debate, if they go through today's reading and reach the committees, we will discuss them. We say, and we know that, but for you who are not members of the committee, we have already prepared amendments both from the workshop of the Ministry of the Interior and from the workshop of Mrs Jana Černochová, or from the joint workshop of myself and my colleague Dr Mašek as two Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Security. We've introduced our colleagues to this, so we know what the situation is. At the same time, I would like to invite you, and I would like to say to you, as a colleague, to invite you, my colleague and I, on this matter, will still be holding a round table, or a seminar before the Security Committee's meeting. You'll get an invitation. You who care, you can be a part of it. And we're gonna be very happy because the debate is supposed to be wide. And from the discussion that just took place here. I am very pleased for that, even with the minor gunfights that were between the fellow Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Okamura and the Minister. But we've basically gotten used to it. My colleague Luzar also mentioned that there was an amendment to Act No. 110 on the security of the Czech Republic. It's a constitutional law, I point out. To be informed, colleagues and fellow senators will probably be discussing this as early as June 11th, which means next week, as a bill that will come to us. And we will try to discuss this either at the July meeting so that we can get it on the committees and discuss it together in that one package of security issues. The Ministry of the Interior and thanks have been mentioned. Yes, in the beginning, when it was born in the European Union, we could have been more active and we could have put the yellow card in there and just said some things. But unfortunately, we didn't, and now we're actually pulling the chestnuts out of the fire. But it's done, I think, quite a bit of work. [[16.00 hours]] I hereby ask you to release this House press number 669 into second reading, and believe that across the political spectrum, all of us who are able to take an expert opinion on this, and also in cooperation with the Czech Moravian Hunting Union, LEX and other organisations that bring together sports shooters or owners, arms holders, will create amendments that will either make the European directive even more subtle or make it acceptable. But I say for myself internally, I do not like what the EU is doing, and that is why I will support Mr Koten's proposal, and I will vote to reject the 90-two, and if it does not pass, which, of course, is your decision, I will be very happy if the Minister of the Interior announces the $300 million saved, the grant program, and we will be the associations... Minister, don't laugh! You said it yourself, you threw it, so if we create the 300 million, and we support the associations, because that young generation's upbringing to patriotism and possibly. all other things related to the Czech Republic and national identity are simply important. And as I mentioned, I would like it to be under the Ministry of the Interior, not under the Ministry of Defence, because we are on the internal security issue, and that is important to me. So thank you for the discussion and let's vote on the two proposals that are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u43	There. And I have one more point of fact here, and it's the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in general, to speak to my predecessors. I have always thought that, although we are different, we all wish and honor the rule of law. And just part of the rule of law is respect for the rules. Primary European law is part of the rule of law, compliance with the rules is part of the rule of law, the binding nature of the directives and regulations that we have participated in is compliance with the rule of law. I am sorry when the legislator says: I refuse to respect the legal order of the Czech Republic. I am talking about our legal order, which, of course, is part of European law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u45	There. Now I have no application here, so I will look around to see if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate. Yes, again. Member Zdeněk Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u46	I fully understand you, my colleague, President Kalousek, through Mr President, but in that case we would not have to be the legislators of the Czech Republic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u47	There. I'm gonna ask you to calm down. Mr. Ambassador, wait a minute! I've stopped hearing what you're saying. These are very serious things, so I'm going to ask you to calm down so we can hear what we're talking about here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u48	- and we could have everything dictated by Brussels because we once committed ourselves to implementing everything. And I think that we often come across things that we just don't like, and if we don't like something, then we have the right to say it too. And the form of resistance that I won't support any of the things that come from Brussels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u49	There. I will now look at whether there is still an interest in the speech in the general debate. More! So, Mr. Jiří Kobza. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u50	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to express my thanks to all those who participated in the preparation of the Parliamentary Bill on Arms Management, House Press 669, because there was an absolutely unique situation where there was agreement on this proposal across the House, across the political spectrum, which is largely unique, and because this is a very important law for the whole of our country, I once again thank everyone who took part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-011-999.u51	There. I'll see if anyone else is logged in. I see no one, so I am ending the merged general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. No. And neither is the Minister, so all three who might have the final word aren't interested. That's a statement. We will now return to discussing each press separately. So now the press
