ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /German press 785/ - shortened negotiations In the short-term negotiations, we should have according to § 99 para. 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law are in the accelerated procedure. I am opening up a debate on this procedure. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, House printing 785 in short reading." I've started voting number 15. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 15 of 95 present for 75, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore proceed to the hearing because the resolution has been approved. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch will state in the short hearing. I beg you to take the floor. Before the rapporteur's table comes, I will ask Mr David Kasal to take his place at the rapporteur's table. I'll give you a word as soon as it's quiet in the House. If you are discussing a previous point or something else, please in the foyer. Just a moment, Mr. Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, this proposal is another one of a series of proposals to lighten those affected by emergency measures in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic. In this respect, therefore, as is the case with the social security contributions from the MPSV, we have submitted a draft law on the remission of contributions or payment of advances on public health insurance premiums from March 2020 to August 2020 for self-employed persons. This means that this is the basic principle of the regulation, so that we lighten those who are simply currently having problems in terms of their business, just as it is in the case of social insurance. I don't think there's much to add. There are, of course, certain impacts on the public health insurance system, which we estimate to be about 8 billion. CZK in terms of system failure. However, we will be based on certain provisions that the system has, and we believe that we are able to handle this in the following period. So that's probably just very briefly for the justification of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. I would remind you that the first reading does not take place in accordance with § 99 para. 6, and the draft law of the Health Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, has already been discussed and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 785/1. I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr David Kasal, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Health discussed this proposal at its meeting and the 255th Resolution of the Committee on Health of the 58th meeting of 24 March 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 592 on public health insurance premiums, as amended, House press 785, after the opening word of Deputy Minister of Health JUDr. Radek Policar, MUDr. Kasal and the debate committee for Health Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill amending Act No. 592 on public health insurance premiums, as amended, House printing 785, pursuant to § 99 para. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies (a) have discussed in the general debate; (b) discuss all its parts in the debate and in detail; (c) discuss it by Tuesday, 24 March, at 7 p.m.; II. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 592 on public health insurance premiums, as amended; III. Instructs the rapporteur of the Committee of Mr Kasal, in cooperation with the draftsman and the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to propose other necessary adjustments pursuant to Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee to the Assembly of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now we have to decide whether to hold a general debate. The Committee has recommended, but we must approve this if we will have a general debate. If we hold a general debate, we will decide in the vote number 16 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of us having a general debate. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 16 of the present 95 for 64, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can therefore launch a general debate. In the general debate, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is the first Member to sign up. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. Under the agreement, I will speak with the opinion of our MP. Of course, we support this bill. However, at the same time, we have prepared an amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, it is House document 4646. There are detailed reasons. I'll put the main reasons on the microphone now. I say we support the measure. At the same time, this means that the public health insurance system is to lose approximately 8 to 8.5 billion. less. This amendment is aimed at adding these missing amounts to the system by the State. I think it is right that the moment we approve a new state budget deficit, the moment we need health care, we cannot weaken the system by losing revenue. So the amendment is quite simple, virtually. the justification - for the missing part to be supplied by the State to the public health insurance system. I think there is enough room for this to be a certain approved deficit today, when we will increase the deficit by 160 billion. I'm afraid the number is far from final. And I believe that the Minister will also support this, because we do not need to reduce in this situation and in the coming weeks and months the money that will be in public health insurance. And I say the step is right, and at the same time, I think we should impose that obligation on the state. Thank you for the support of this amendment, which I propose on behalf of our club, and then in a detailed debate, I will only formally sign up for the amendment. And now I will give the rapporteur one copy of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now Vice-President Tomio Okamura with priority rights. My colleague Třešňák will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has agreed to draft a law for the remission of penalties for the non-payment of health insurance advances for civil servants for a period of six months. Ideal help from the state would, of course, be the forgiveness of payment for the duration of the emergency. That's what the government refuses to do. So in the finals, businessmen aren't gonna be much help. In the debate over health insurance, we are once again on where to take it, because this money is not money for health insurance, as a result it is for health care. It cannot be considered that according to the law health insurance companies should be non-profitable and must at least theoretically provide every legal care guaranteed, so in practice they can only compete with supplements for vitamins or gymnastics and so on. For this, heavy millions of insured people's pockets compete with advertising on television and other media, and, of course, scandals will come up when some tunneling of insured people's money is revealed. It is offered in the world a proven model, namely a common selection of social and health insurance through financial offices and subsequently distributed through one office. Insurance companies have an annual profit of about 10 billion. koruna, and partly flows abroad. Two foreign insurance companies, for example, have a monopoly profit or a duopolo for insurance that the State orders from employers' accident insurance. How come this doesn't come from VZP or her daughter PVZP and the profits don't go to our health care, but to Austria and Italy? Ladies and gentlemen, the reason I'm saying above is that if we're talking about this and the government is talking about how to help people, we're talking about it here, so let's talk about how and to what extent, I'm saying in advance that the money is here, all we have to do is go to the needy, not the billionaires. In this context, we will warn the government that the cry about a trillion crowns, when most of this amount is actually just a loan, and the loan is only the big ones, so we do not consider it the most necessary help. [[15.30 hours]] For a minimum loan of CZK 500,000, a small businessman will not only reach it, but does not need it. He needs a simple and cheap state to give him the most money he can make. We want a state that will not parasite in the form of VAT on executions, which will not support them through completely irresponsible justice. Slovakia has committed itself to reducing electricity prices for citizens. On the contrary, Czech energy monopolies, supported by the government for decades, have made electricity more expensive to Czech citizens, in a situation where, for example, we export electricity to Germany or Austria, sometimes at 1.40 crowns, but sometimes completely free. ODS, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL have created a group of solar barons. But renewables are the minimum against what electricity distributors, for example, charge. Over the last decade, it has been nearly a thousand billion crowns, and it should be about 100 this year. We've asked the authorities for exact numbers. Like water, the distribution of something as strategic as electricity should be provided by the State and the State to citizens only for the payment of actual operating costs. The same is true of telecommunications, for example, where the State should itself operate its own network for citizens for minimum payments and any earnings should go to pensions or health. Only here again are hundreds of billions that flow partly abroad. Last but not least, there will be talk of bureaucracy, EET and other obligations of businessmen and companies. Why am I talking about all this in the context of measures to help citizens in the context of an emergency crisis involving coronavirus? The cheapest help is to simplify their work by abolishing the maximum bureaucracy. It's not just about giving people a handout, it's about making their lives cheaper and easier. It's easy to say: the state is supposed to help, not harm. This is what I am talking about here on purpose, so that we can say that the state has the opportunity to put billions of crowns in the budget, only if it behaves really with the care of a proper economy. I wish the government, the House and our citizens to finally succeed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u9	I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura is also registered. aha, well, that was bad information on the transfer of driving. It is Mr Petr Třešňák who is next in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u10	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. As a Pirates Club, we have made it clear that we will support this government proposal, and we are actually glad that the government is more or less applying our proposal, which we submitted to the Ministry of Finance last week by letter from Mr Ferjenčík on Monday, and subsequently by colleagues on the Committee on Budgets. We agree, of course, with the technical concept, as I mentioned, that the CFI will be exempt for a period of six months from the payment of advances up to minimum advances, and then, when the annual billing is made after the review, it will be viewed as if it had paid those advances. However, the failure of funds for the health system will be massive and we estimate it to be around 8.5 billion, which was mentioned here by the Minister and a moment ago by Mr Stanjura. And the moment we say this to A, so we need to say this to B, which is how we will compensate the health budget. However, in addition to President Stanjura's amendment, I believe another technically different one appeared in the system, but the budget, so there are possibilities on the table. Unfortunately, the third option from the government workshop is not here, so I expect the government to recommend voting for one of these two mechanisms. Furthermore, I would like to read in a detailed debate the amendment which extends the government amendment to another population group, and these are persons without taxable income. Although it is a group which is not entirely homogeneous, we propose that, for the period March to August 2020, these persons also do not pay insurance premiums. Please note that these are mainly persons working on an agreement to carry out work, which could so newly start to arrange a trade license, and this is certainly not desirable in the current situation. At the same time, allow me to use the point relating to the payment of health insurance to open a subject which, although not directly related to it, is important that it also be heard here today. At present, it is clear that the development of new drugs against COVID-19 is a challenging discipline, so antivirotics are being tested that would also work against other viruses. Remdesivir looks like the most suitable medicine so far, other variants of different medicines are now being tested in laboratories of pharmaceutical companies. But for example. Remdesivir is already subject to restrictions on access, and we can also see other medicines that the manufacturer will not be able to supply the necessary quantities to our market. And since the drug is patently protected, another manufacturer in the territory of the European Union, which, for example, should have the necessary capacity, must not produce it. Patent protection of pharmaceuticals is, on the one hand, a guarantee of the stability of the pharmaceutical industry in terms of paying for the actual development of the drug, on the other hand, sometimes it is also a brake on the available treatment. Worse, if we are in such crises and many countries are in a state of emergency. In an emergency situation, for example, the European Union could introduce compulsory licensing in the context of emergency situations as well as pharmaceuticals protected by patents. A compulsory licence would apply to producers who hold a patent and do not want or cannot import the innovative medicinal product into the European Union or offer it at a highly disproportionate price. That is why I would then like to propose the following resolution in a detailed debate, namely that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to initiate negotiations in the Council on the limitation of pharmaceutical patents in case of emergency situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. The President of Kalousek is next in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will basically simply freely rely on my previous speakers, because we, of course, also agree with this relief for the self-righteous. On the other hand, it cannot be overlooked that this will mean a loss in the income of health insurance companies. Colleagues count 8.5 billion, it's coming to me almost ten, but we're not going to argue about that number. In any case, it is quite noticeable when the health system faces relatively unprecedented pressure. I would consider it irresponsible to get rid of this income without compensation. I'm just reminding you here that we have protested in vain against disbanding the health insurance reserves. It melted down when there was a good time! What you'd give for the reserves now. But I agree that this is to be compensated. The question is, what technique? I would be happy to support Mr Stanjura's amendment, which is verbal, and I have it essentially numbered, because in my opinion, it can be settled within the framework of the State Budget Act within the chapter. The General Treasury, when, on the one hand, when we get to that point, the government raises a relatively massive government budget reserve to an unprecedented 60 billion, I fear that this year is not the last time, and on the other hand, it is within the General Treasury Administration payment for state insured persons. I therefore believe that it would be right to transfer 10 billion of the government's budgetary reserve under chapter VPS to the payment of state insured persons and we have this resolved under the amendment to the State Budget Act. We don't have to do this as part of an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. Either way, I'm convinced we have to do this. I'm offering my option. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u14	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me give you an opinion on this House press for the KDU-ČSL club. It is the House Press 785, which is an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. KDU-ČSL also supports important changes in public health insurance in this serious situation. We see the situation of self-employed workers as very sensitive at the moment. We'll talk about it at the next point. We know that at this time many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have had to reduce or completely stop their activities, and this does not affect not only their families, but it has a significant impact on the employment of many other people as well. So we welcome this step and welcome especially the basic point of this amendment, when it is proposed to relieve the CFI for six months from the payment of advances on public health insurance. [[15.40 hours]] Now I would like to follow up on colleagues who spoke before me, whether it was colleague Kalousek, colleague Stanjura, colleague Třešňák. We need to think about blackouts in public health insurance. We are talking about the direct effects of this amendment, some 8.9 billion crowns, but we know well, and it is now calculated that the projected total loss on public health insurance will be somewhere around 40 billion crowns this year. Of course, it's a prediction, it can move both upwards and downwards, but the blackout is pretty serious. We know that, at this point in time, the health insurance accounts are somewhere around CZK 44 billion, so we can say that we can use them at the moment, but in my opinion, this is not the right solution. So I would also very much advocate that we go either way at this point in time to the amendment that will be tabled by the ODS, and we will be very happy to support it, but we also need to think about the other roughly 30 billion that we will miss in public health insurance this year. And I would like to appeal at this point to the government to address this problem as a priority in the coming weeks, because it needs to be realised that this is not just about whether we lack money in public health insurance on health insurance accounts, but it has a significant impact on the stability of our health facilities. At this point, health care facilities are primarily struggling with the pandemic of coronavirus, especially hospitals have significantly reduced their activity at the moment and can be expected not to fit into the clearance corridors. It is certainly possible to say at this point that they will have a problem, and then, of course, there will be reductions. I would like to appeal very much to the Government to devote itself to this problem too, that is, how to supplement the public health insurance deficit for 2020, and here, of course, we have the possibility of extraordinary valorisation of payments for state insured persons, but we also need to look for other mechanisms. So much for me. KDU-ČSL will support the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, while stressing once again the appeal towards the government. The financial downturn in public health insurance will be very serious and it is necessary to consider the stability of all segments of health care. It's not just hospitals, but it's an ambulance of practitioners, outpatient specialists, and other medical facilities in this country. We need to avoid allowing this medical facility, which, of course, will be tired, as far as staff are concerned, and of course will also be exhausted economically in order to reduce health care, because the planned health care, which is being postponed at the moment because of the coronavirus, will of course have to be fulfilled later. So much for me, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u15	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, for the club KSČM very briefly. We support this government proposal, we believe that this will make this way easier fundamentally, including, of course, with another House press on social security, which also deals with the part of social contributions, will relieve the self-employed, and it is one of the first steps, and we also take it, which we will now approve, with the fact that, of course, further legislative measures will be added to the situation, so that not only the self-employed, but above all the employers themselves, not only to be able to keep the employees, but to be able to start at least partially in some time or in some optimal horizon, or at least to maintain some economic stability in the Czech Republic. I just want to say, and maybe I'm going to poke myself a little bit into the Minister, I believe that our proposal for valorisation for state insurance would be very useful to the Minister right now, because the money, I don't think we need to think that there is a need, but I don't think it's a good time to deal with this situation right now. We need to deal with the current situation and help where it needs to be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. Interested in the final words? The Minister is interested. Before I open up a detailed debate, the Minister's final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly about the debate. Of course, we will closely monitor the situation as it develops in time. At present, it is clear that the epidemic will have some implications in terms of the cost side of the Czech health care, in terms of managing production in individual hospitals; Thanks to the fact that I have decided to limit elective care, it is clear that it will affect production, but on the other hand, it may also affect saving in this respect some costs. We have agreed with the Minister of Finance that we will monitor this in the time of how the system will evolve and respond accordingly, so that, of course, the system is stable, because it is probably not about destabilizing the public health insurance system and our health care system when we know that there are health professionals who work very hard, and we need to thank them for that, so in this regard I do not think that now is the time to make these decisions within the meaning of the proposed amendments, but we will monitor the situation as it develops. So far, in February of this year, the system seems to be doing relatively well. We have been given current figures that talk about the fact that there are still some reserves around 60 billion crowns, we will see, of course, how it will develop now, March, April and the next months, and eventually we will respond together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u19	Thank you. I am opening up a detailed debate. Mr Petr Třešňák is the first to have a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u20	Allow me to sign up to Amendment 4651, which I have already announced in the general debate concerning persons without taxable income. I will add that according to estimates, this should cover approximately 60,000 people and the cost of the state budget of approximately CZK 700 million. And then let me reload the accompanying resolution on the restriction of the patent of medicines, respectively. compulsory licensing in emergency situations, and that is to say: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to initiate negotiations in the Council on the limitation of pharmaceutical patents in case of emergency situations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u21	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? There's no interest in final words. I conclude second reading of this proposal and interrupt the discussion of this point until all second readings are discussed. Now before discussing - is there any proposal for a different procedure? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and after the debate between the House's administration and the legislation, there is no need to vote on the suspension of negotiations after second reading. That's why I don't vote on it. But what we are going to vote on is that, before discussing the Government's draft law on certain adjustments to social security premiums and the contribution to state employment policy and pension insurance in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic in 2020, this is House's press 787, we would be in the field of Section 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening up a debate on this. No one is going into the debate, so I am ending the debate and we are going to proceed to the vote. [[15.50 hours]] I shall make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on certain adjustments to social security contributions and contributions to state employment and pension insurance policies in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, House press 787 in the accelerated negotiations." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17. A hundred MPs registered, for 89, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mrs Černochová, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u22	I'm terribly sorry, Mr. Vice President, but I wanted to ask. Mr. Stanjura was on the phone. There was no way he could have read the amendment that he had announced on the previous point. If we could please and go back one more time to discuss the point where, in fact, even for the Pirates Club, it was clearly said that they would support the proposal. I'm sorry, we're actually in a bit of a non-standard situation here, so I'm asking you to come with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u23	I interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for three minutes to 15.54 hours and the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies will be consulted as possible. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 15.51 to 15.54 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. We're in a bit of a difficult situation that I think we've sort of figured out. We have now voted that item number 4 will be discussed in a short hearing, which we have voted, but we have not yet opened that point. I'm suggesting now. The Chamber of Deputies, to vote on reopening item 3. We must agree to this by voting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 18. 99 MPs logged in for 82 against no one. We've reopened point three. We will now decide by another vote that we are going back to a detailed debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 19. 99 MPs logged in for 82 against no one. We have returned again to a detailed debate. President Stanjura is in favour of the debate in detail. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues for allowing me to speak again in a detailed debate. It was my fault. I'm sorry. So I then formally submit to Amendment 4646 and thank you once again for the generosity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-003-003.u25	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the debate in detail. Again, I must ask if there is interest in final words. It's not. So at this point, I'm interrupting this point until all the second readings from today's show are discussed. We have voted in favour of the accelerated negotiations on item 4, which is why I am now opening this item.
