ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u1	3. Government information on purchases of medical material and shares in private companies or other interventions considered [[17.50 hours]] I ask that a representative of the government who has been assigned to this point, if so, take the floor. If he's not like that, I'm not sure how to proceed. Do we at least have a Deputy Prime Minister here? In that case, if no one has any objections, I would give without the government giving us information, the word of the plaintiff, who will also become rapporteur, and that will be Mr Ivan Bartoš. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And I will ask the House for more peace. Okay, let's go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u2	Good evening, already evening, colleagues and ministers. Well, thank you for the opening words. He spoke on this point last week on Thursday, Minister Adam Vojtěch, but it was at the moment when Members could not respond at that time unless they had priority rights of the party's type, the club's chairman or someone else's. I would therefore open this point, as is in line with the programme approved by the meeting. In conclusion, I have a series of resolutions, as was the case with the previous two points. I'm going to start a little bit wide because the Supreme Audit Office is also dealing with the issue of purchases at the moment. However, these investigations may take some time. And if we are talking about how the Czech Republic and the government should proceed, for example, in adding health aids to stocks, it is important to discuss this matter, and even here, despite the vote of the House resolution, to find some agreement between Members. The House is supposed to control the government and can appeal to it and impose tasks on it and go in that direction before the investigations, i.e. what has already been purchased, reveal and how the government should proceed. According to the President of the Supreme Audit Office, Miloslav Kala and according to the evidence of our pirate analytical team, the state authorities spent more than 10 billion on purchases of protective equipment in an emergency period. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] It's pretty loud in here, I can scream more, but I know it's uncomfortable again...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u3	I think it would be inappropriate, so I will ask the House once again for more peace. I will ask Members who have something else to deal with, where appropriate, outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u4	Then I hope that your appeal, Mr President, will be heard. The Pirate Analysis Team and a number of investigative journalists have revealed many serious incidents that cannot be swept under the carpet. However, it is not just overpriced and expensive purchases, i.e. the question of how nearly 10 billion crowns were handled. We also dealt with whether health workers, social workers or ordinary citizens obtained quality protective equipment that is safe and provided, if necessary, real protection at the time. We also examined a number of stimuli when the purchased items were very dubious quality. Instead of giving us an explanation in turn, Minister Adam - and I have responded to this once - ironically invited me to the shopping team, and the individual merry-go-rounds were quite often played out from my point of view. In the beginning, I'd put three in the eye-beating cases. Sometime in the middle of April 2020, I filed a written interview with the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch. It contained the first discovery of a pirate analytical team. The manager of the supply company Recea Prague, which received an order from the Ministry of Health for CZK 310 million, at that time faced 18 executions for almost CZK 4 million and his residence was registered or still registered at the office of the city of Prague 5. The business of this company is, among other things, the sugar and sausage industry. Moreover, this company did not provide the Ministry with valid certificates that would guarantee that the products delivered were safe. The Ministry of Health thus ensured that the quality of the equipment from this company was tested and announced that some of them were poor quality and therefore cancelled some orders. It seems to me that if no one were poking around in those orders, and if the PR race, who better orders, had gone on as it went on, it would have gone on with joy from this company, there wouldn't have been any correction, and those orders would have really gone on without checking their quality. If the Ministry insists that these products are of poor quality, it should therefore reject the whole consignment. There are a number of similar question marks around the purchase in this matter. The order of respirators for nearly CZK 300 million for the Ministry of Health was interesting, which was also obtained by De Sol Investment, which had its owner in Belize far away. I then looked at the work of investigative journalists, because, after all, MEPs should not function as researchers. The server editor The News List found out that this supplier of protective equipment is being investigated by Interpol's international police organization for the trafficking of counterfeits. The owner in Belize was even abolished in 2015, so the supplier of the Ministry of Health's aids had a non-existent owner. Again, as soon as the Department of the Editor's List of Reports was alerted, the order was canceled. It remains a question of how it is possible that such important information is drawn by the Ministry from investigative journalists or from the pirate analytical team. I'll just add that this executive faced more than ten execution proceedings for a change and basically didn't know what was going on in society. And I could go on like this. There's a LA Factory company, the biggest supplier of the Ministry of Health. And we approached the experts, and even in the papers, it was a company that had not done business in this area until then. Our analysts and investigative journalists have been able to reveal that this company has supplied part of the respirators with a forged certificate. The institutions mentioned on this certificate in their letter to our analysts stated that their logos and signatures were listed on the certificate without their knowledge and these certificates with their signatures are produced by unknown persons somewhere in China. Serious findings were also on purchases of the Ministry of the Interior, but Minister Hamáček is not here at the moment. Just as an example, the respirators were supplied by a site company in Hong Kong, which was only recently established. The registered capital of the Czech koruna amounted to CZK 30,000. Until then, the company's executive was mainly involved in the sale of teas and soft drinks. The Pirate Analysis Team has processed a number of analyses. We delivered these documents to the Supreme Audit Office in two suggestions. The president of the SAO announced that he would undertake a control event for these purchases, which is why these materials are likely to be very useful for the SAO. We approached about 250 Czech equipment vendors in parallel at the time and then asked them in such an interview how many of them were addressed to the Ministry for Cooperation, because already in March it was said that the ministries were communicating massively with domestic suppliers. I am saying this here because I understand the argument that at the moment the Czech market could not be supplied in such quantities from Czech companies. The purchases were huge at that point in time. However, our questionnaire went through last week, the week before last, we have May, we have a positive that it is working in some way at the moment, 6 percent of these companies responded at state level. Well, I'd like to move slowly on to those motions for resolutions. In all this time - and it was also a few speeches by Minister Adam Vojtěch here, no one from that government could explain to me how at the same time, practically at the same time, two state authorities could buy protective equipment with absolutely enormous price differences, that it did not seem strange to anyone. The Ministry managed to buy one of them for FFP2 respirators for 50 kroner, but also for 866 kroner. The price difference isn't five times, it's about 20 times at the time. I did not even get an explanation in response to my written interpelation, where I also requested information about the products of the aids, especially those whose aids were proven to be of poor quality according to the test results. [[18.00 hours]] I would like to quote Minister Adam Vojtěch's reply to my written interview: Respirators produce hundreds of manufacturing companies in different countries, especially in China. The specific information about the manufacturer is not and was not by far the most important and in the first stage the purchasing team of the Ministry of Health had no room to collect information that was not needed. The information I've already told you, the Pirates' analytical team, not the quality of the certificates, it took about two or three days, but the information about the strange companies and their owners was processed from publicly available sources by the databases in about half a day. I would have expected that if you were doing hundreds of millions of public money purchases heading for billions, this half-day research work would certainly be handled by someone at the Ministry of Health. It is very problematic for me that the Ministry simply had no idea who was supplying the respirators at the time, while a third of the orders were canceled most often because of poor quality. And what I see is a rather fundamental problem, from those suppliers they bought protective equipment for hospitals, regions or nursing homes. And I think it's very likely that they also bought low-quality protective equipment that didn't provide them with the required protection because they just had the same type as the Ministry buys, and there was no reference. I would like to be glad when today's meeting is over, for the Ministry to provide this reference and to provide the necessary education, to say from which companies and which types of respirators and medical aids did not meet the quality requirements, so that in the Czech Republic, institutions or citizens, private persons, do not buy them with any false impression that it would protect them in case they broke out again either locally or in some other wave similar to the pandemic that the Czech Republic has undergone. I have some consensual proposals prepared here, which I would only present in the later part of this debate if other people applied to it. We have proposals here, which is one of the important areas - a shortage of supplies. That is what I think was at the beginning of this whole shopping problem, that the Czech Republic did not have material reserves and for a long time we were told that this was not a problem. The second part of these resolutions will aim at the problematic purchases of protective equipment, so that now, at the moment when the Czech Republic supplies itself, because these are not some stocks that we have forever, the consumption is not in the order of thousands, but it is completely in different order during the day in individual health establishments, so that similar purchases do not recur, and it will not fix it either, that we make some special exception to the Public Procurement Act. The last series of proposed resolutions will aim at a very important area. This area is also important from the point of view of kicking the frozen economy of the Czech Republic and it is indeed a plan and real involvement of domestic producers, even in cooperation with professional workplaces and universities. There are a number of projects, whether it be CTU, whether it be a mining university, how the government interprets what it says in the media - we cooperate with Czech companies, we want to help them - so the resolution aims to ensure that this aid is not only declared, only in television performances, but to become a reality in the coming months. Firstly, Czech companies, especially in the field of nanotechnology, are really at the top of the world's production and development, and we are here inventing programs, and it is the right way to help companies. When we were talking about the amount of money that was spent on purchases abroad at the time, if that money ended up in the Czech economy, it would be a win-win situation. So I would end my opening words with this. Thank you and I will sit here in the position of rapporteur, who I take up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u5	Thank you. Before I begin the general debate, I will introduce the House with the note cards. Mrs Kozlová apologizes between 18.00 and midnight for family reasons, Mr Onderka apologises today from 17.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons and also tomorrow 5. 6. for personal reasons throughout the day. Mrs Jarošová apologises from 18:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, and Mr Špičák also apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the day for health reasons. I am now initiating a general debate to which Mr Lipavský is currently on the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, honourable Members, this item is called Information on the purchase of medical supplies and shares in private companies or other interventions considered. I will talk mainly about the second part, namely the shares in private companies or other interventions considered, namely the Smartwings case. I would like to explain how this process is not transparent, because we learn this from inconsistent and conflicting statements in the media and suffer from a complete lack of information. I will describe the completely dubious ownership structure of Smartwings, because this is absolutely essential for understanding why the company does not deserve the funds of the Czech state budget. I will also explain that it is not possible to talk about this company as a strategic company. In order not to be just negative and not just no, I will also outline certain solutions to how the state should possibly implement such interventions into the Czech economy. The government's information, first of all, is completely unclear, the process is completely transparent, we hear various misguided and often contradictory statements. Once the company's strategic, twice it's not. The Minister of Justice was talking about a life pillow, and then she got scolded that businessmen were supposed to have something to save at home. Minister Havlíček spoke of a so-called card. So the messages are different, but it's relevant because we're talking about up to 2.5 billion. CZK from the Czech budget. That's not enough money. That's quite a lot. That's the money our citizens pay in taxes. Today, a number from Jiří Šimáně said that it should be a guarantee of a loan of 1.7 billion. The problem is that something no commercial entity wants to guarantee would be guaranteed. And why doesn't the commercial entity want to guarantee it? Because he doesn't believe the project will be successful. On the other hand, he says he doesn't want the state to give him the money. So what's different if Czech taxpayers are very likely to pay it for a year or two if the company goes bankrupt rather than a gift? It is an absolutely risky operation, the aviation industry is in its deepest crisis, and we must act accordingly. Fact number two. The dubious property structure of the Smartwings Group leads to tax havens. According to available information, Smartwings Group has the following ownership structure: 49,9 percent of shares are owned by Rainbow Wisdom Investments Ltd., which I will discuss further, 11 percent Roman Vik, 11 % Unimex Group, 27 percent Canaria Travel. It's from the registers. Then we can read today or Monday in the paper that the structure is a little different, that Rainbow, the Chinese part, is still holding the half, 25 percent holding the EH Group, which is controlled by Mr. Vik, 14 percent holding the UG Jet 2, which is controlled by the Unimex Group, and another 11 percent by the Unimex Group. As far as the Unimex Group is concerned, this is very interesting because it is half owned by the natural person Šimána and Šmejkal, but the second half is held by companies in the Netherlands NEVILLE Investments and JADA Investments. Now we're getting to the really interesting one, the delicacy. As far as Rainbow's stake is concerned, it was established in Hong Kong in 2016. Its founding partner was Ultimate Best Investments Limited. The capital injection into this company at the time represented one Hong Kong dollar, which is roughly 3 crowns, for which you will buy the cheapest roll from Penam. Currently Rainbow's core capital is 4 Hong Kong dollars, which is the price of Penam's cheapest pie. Since April 2020, Mr. Fan Čeng has been director of Rainbow and is also Deputy Director General at CITIC Construction and Secretary at CITIC Secretaries Limited. [[18.10 hours]] The founding partner of Rainbow, Ultimate Best Investments Limited, was established in Hong Kong in 2011 by Blear Services Limited and was subsequently controlled by Fernside Limited. It is not at all simple, but this company was registered in Western Samoa and is among the 19 companies listed on the list of companies linked to the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping, which is on the US Government's penalty list. At present, Rainbow is controlled by Hengxin Enterprises Limited, which is registered in a tax haven in the British Virgin Islands and owes a debt of EUR 500 million. Tvrdík confirmed that Rainbow was finally being held by the People's Republic of China through the Ministry of Finance and, at the same time, tweeted that it was an undertaking of extraordinary economic importance and extraordinary economic power when - I quote - he wrote that he would keep through his subsidiary, etc. I would like to say that 62 percent of this company's shares are controlled by companies established in tax havens or countries whose jurisdictions are used to optimize tax contributions. That's Hengxin Enterprises Limited, NEVILLE Investment and JADA Investment. We are still talking about 2.5 billion Czech taxpayers' crowns, just to repeat it. And I'm gonna go back a little bit in history, because these rescue plans are being discussed by the yes ministers -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u7	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I must say that my colleague Lipavský has certainly taken on an interesting topic, but he is outside the program proposal -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u8	[[Messenger. Lipavský and the President are jumping in, talking through each other.]] It is not, Mr President, certainly not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u9	Because information about purchases of medical materials and shares in private companies -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u10	That's right, a private share--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u11	I'm warning you, you're off the subject of a meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u12	No, I didn't, I certainly didn't. Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u13	Ambassador, I can interrupt you, and we can either make a deal--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u14	The proposal for this item is: Government information on purchase -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u15	Either we agree to talk on a subject like no one has prevented those who called this meeting from putting more points on it, that's all right, but if we're going to talk about buying medical supplies, let's talk about buying medical supplies. It's okay. At the request of Members, the President of the Chamber of Deputies has called a meeting on those points which are the subject of this meeting. Points cannot be exchanged, we can approve or disapprove of the agenda. That's what we've approved, and I'd like everyone who's given the floor to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u16	Mr President, this item is called Information on the Government's purchase of medical material and participation in private companies or other interventions under consideration. What else if the ministers are talking about buying Smartwings is a stake in a private company?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u17	But that doesn't concern medical supplies, Mr. Ambassador. I don't know how to explain it to you, if we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u18	There's the letter "a."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u19	I don't know about Smartwings buying medical supplies, including those who have it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u20	No, the government of the Czech Republic speaks by the mouth of its members about wanting to buy Smartwings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u21	Do not force me to explain to you the Rules of Procedure, which you must certainly know as a Member of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd like us to treat each other right. If, of course, you have doubts, okay, about buying medical supplies, I have them too, but I would like us to talk about this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u22	Mr President, I insist that I not be taken away from the word so that I can speak to the point of this meeting, and I want to talk about the second and third parts. [[It's a delay.]] But, of course, I don't feel like pushing myself with you, so if you want to take that word away from me, take it away from me, but it must sound clearly from your mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u23	So we can return to the subject of medical supplies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u24	The topic is - Information about government purchases of medical materials and shares in private companies or other interventions considered. It's not clear that it has to be medical material, it's just not basically. And even that's how I arranged it in the framework of--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u25	Okay. If you do not agree with my interpretation and insist that the Chamber of Deputies decide, I will not take your word for it if the Chamber of Deputies says that it does not agree with the President's procedure, which is the only possible solution under the Rules of Procedure. So I perceive your speech by calling into question my warning that we are off the subject and questioning the President's procedure when I have warned you that you are off the subject. I will let the Chamber of Deputies decide whether or not I am proceeding correctly. Mr. Chairman Michálek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, as the convener of the meeting, I would like to draw attention to the letter of 21 May 2020, by which I asked the President of the Chamber of Deputies on behalf of several clubs to convene this meeting, stating that paragraph 3 was fully named Government Information on purchases of medical material - as you rightly said - and a share in private companies or other interventions considered. Furthermore, in the text of this letter to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I said that point 3 will discuss purchases of protective equipment and other medical supplies and government interventions considered, such as the purchase of the air carrier Smartwings. So I would ask if you could allow our colleague to comment here on the agenda for this extraordinary meeting, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u27	Of course, I don't know the accompanying letter to the request for a meeting, only the President of the Chamber of Deputies knows that, which is why I... I did not want to react nervously to my colleague Lipavský, which is why I said that I took his speech in such a way that he did not agree with the President's procedure when I pointed out that he was off the subject. [[Speech of disapproval from the Pirates' benches.]] I am simply trying to explain to you, under the Rules of Procedure Act, that I have warned him, that you insist that you are not off topic, that I have suggested it, or that you do not agree with the President's procedure, and that the Chamber of Deputies will take a vote on whether or not I am proceeding correctly. Do we understand each other well, Mr. Chairman? I accept your objection, but I will let the Chamber of Deputies decide on this. If the Chamber of Deputies decides that I am not progressing correctly, my colleague Lipavský will finish his speech, even if it is not medical material. Do you understand? I cannot proceed otherwise, I have already pointed out, I really do not know your accompanying letter, Mr President, to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I only know the approved agenda. [[It's on the board. - The President's response to the ongoing debate in plenary:]] I'll pass on the note, whether I can read or not. I'd like us to be polite to each other. I proceed strictly under the Rules of Procedure Act. If the Chamber of Deputies tells you to proceed, I will, of course, respect the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. We will decide on the opposition to the President's procedure in the 30th vote. Before that, the chair of the Pirates Parliamentary Club, Mr Michálek, will perform. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u28	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I am convinced that there has been no objection, there has been a reservation on the President's procedure. I think we've cleared this up and there's no point now in voting something - in quotation marks - for strength. I think it would be logical for Mr Lipavský to finish his speech, and only if you took his word away, so I think it would be appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u29	Mr President, however, I have been warned by several Members that this is an off-topic speech, and I have to take into account the views of other Members as well. And I have no choice but to vote in the Chamber of Deputies. A colleague of Kalousek with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u30	Mr President, you have not taken the floor yet, Mr Lipavský, and no one has objected to your procedure. There has only been a discussion about what is or is not appropriate. That means there's only one option. Mr Lipavský will continue, you will take away the word - which, in my deepest conviction, you do not have the right - then someone will object and we can vote on it. Or - which I would consider much more correct - Mr Lipavský will continue his performance. And someone who doesn't like it will object and we can vote on his objection. But nothing like this has happened here. So far, we are simply discussing whether or not a Member can speak on a subject that I believe is a subject. If anyone thinks it's not a topic, then let them object. So far, no one has objected to that. Maybe someone was yelling at you from the bench, but no one got off the phone with an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u31	I took advantage of the President's authority and took the floor with Mr Lipavský. The fact that he continued to speak was a matter of disrespect for the Rules of Procedure Act. I can't proceed differently. And I understood his next performance by suggesting that he should continue his speech, even though I took that word away from him. I can't explain it any other way. That doesn't have to be explicit. We will decide on the opposition to the President's procedure in voting number 30. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The number of entries has stabilized. We will decide in the vote number 30, which I have begun. I ask who is in favour of objecting to the President's procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 30. Of the present 106, for 44, against 9. The motion was denied. We will therefore continue to discuss the purchases of medical supplies, as decided by the Chamber of Deputies. It is registered with a factual remark by Mr Munzar and colleague Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, somehow we have now decided on the President's procedure. However, I've applied to the facts before. I do not think that point is only called information on the purchase of medical material, and I do not think that the President can narrow down the approved House programme as the President has done. However, the House is a souvenir and so decided. I'm sorry, and unfortunately, that's what we decided. However, I think that the President's procedure was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u33	Thank you. President Bartoš with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u34	I'd like to ask. If there are two forces here in the House, and one of them is a government coalition and the parties that support it, and then there is some opposition that has less of the logic of the matter, that's why it didn't form a government, and the House President decides at the moment that he doesn't like something that someone says and doesn't matter, will we proceed from next time in this way? Because most people agree that something isn't going to be discussed? I understand you didn't have to see the one letter that Jakub Michálek sent to President Vondráček. Thank you for bringing me a copy of it. We handed him over to President Vondráček. I mean, I get it. But if this name is so explicit and we agree that, yes, it was also in the letter, as the House decides that from the next time we speak to something that needs to be disliked to a group of Members, the President will say it is not to the point, he will take away the word, the person, and here the majority will perhaps confirm it? I don't think that's the right approach, that's the right example. I understand that the subject is, as the people say, that the subject of Smartwings is resonating. There's a lot of articles going on around him, too. But it seems to me like we're not going to talk about him because someone doesn't understand what's in the title of this program point, it just seems like a pretty weird procedure to me, and I hope it's not some new standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u35	With a factual remark, Mr Ondráček and Mr Hájek. First Zdeněk Ondráček. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I think next time we could call points about everything and nothing, then we can discuss everything and nothing like you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Hájek, with a point of fact. You have your word. A colleague of Ferjenčík will prepare himself with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u38	Mr President, I am sorry, I came later. I used partly meaningfully this afternoon because I was on the 101st birthday of a mining engineer and I really envied that he could still perceive the political reality meaningfully today. So I heard Mr. Lipavský's speech in part. I'm sorry, please explain to me when you mentioned here that the price of that stock is one Hong Kong dollar, which is one Penamese roll, or a higher price of one Penamese pie. Of course, the Penamese pie is convertible, which means the price in Moravia is three times higher than in Prague. So I'd like to ask you - which price do you present? That means, if it's a convertible roll, a convertible doughnut, a convertible pie. I'm getting a little confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u39	Mr. Ambassador, since this is a factual point, I did not wish to interrupt you, but you do not speak to the matter according to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] So now, colleague Jakub Michálek, with a factual remark, will prepare his colleague Žáček, then his colleague Ferjenčík. You have the floor, Mr President, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will respond to the course of the previous debate. I wanted to remind you that the title of that point was Information about the purchase of medical supplies and the participation in private companies or other interventions considered. At a time when each of us is reading in the media that he's considering intervention in Smartwings, I think it's entirely on the subject. I can see from my colleagues in the ANO movement that there is an interest in discussing this. I will allow you to do so, and therefore, as club president, I will apologize to this point by the end of the debate, and therefore my priority right will pass on to my colleague Lipavský. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u41	Now, my colleague Žáček, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Ferjenčík. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would perhaps remind you of the stage at which the Vice-President entered his colleague Lipavský's speech. When he started talking about Chinese investments, he started talking about Chinese activities. I would ask the Vice-President by his own means what his relationship with the People's Republic of China is. Isn't he biased? Let him explain. And in that case, if it is recognised that the Communist parties may have some extra-standard ties, let them be excluded from discussing this action. I take what he did as a very serious intervention and an attempt at censorship in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u43	Now, Mr Ferjenčík, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Vácha. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u44	I would just like to ask the President to stop censoring here. It is absolutely outrageous that at a point that is clearly devoted to buying private companies and participating in them and intervening in those private companies, here the Bolshevik Censor takes the floor for someone talking about buying the state of private companies! I mean, that's totally crazy. We've called an emergency meeting here so we can talk about Smartwings, among other things, and you're censoring it! How dare you, Mr. Filip?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u45	I have chosen the procedure under the Rules of Procedure, and I have kept it, my colleague. Now, my colleague Vácha, with a point of fact. Mr. Ondráček will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to comment on the trial that's been going on here. I do not know if I have listened well, but I have not heard from you, Mr President, that you would take the floor from Mr Lipavský. You didn't say that until later. But when he was talking, you didn't say, "I'm taking your word away." You then proposed an objection to the President's procedure, but there was no Member, no one here came to the microphone and did not propose an objection to the President's procedure. This means that you are - through you, therefore - you yourself have proposed an objection to the President's procedure. A colleague mentioned it earlier. That way, any President could say at some point: I now propose an objection to my procedure. At that point, the majority in the House, which means a coalition, could interrupt the point under discussion. That's the first thing I think was procedurally wrong. That is why, at the moment, I object to the President's action against what you have done, that you have proposed an objection to the President's action against yourself, which I do not think is correct. [[Laughing in the hall]] The President simply cannot do this. That's the first thing. And the second thing I would like to ask is if we can continue to discuss in this point a share of private companies, ownership in private companies, because that is the name of this point. There's something and something. That means we can discuss the first part - that's the information about purchases. Then I ask if we can discuss the other part, which is a share in private companies. Otherwise, this procedure could change the name and direction of the meeting at any time. So that's what I'd like you to answer my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u47	I'll answer. Pursuant to Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure Act, the speaker may not be interrupted by anyone except by the President's authorization under Section 59 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 and Section 60. [[correct 61]] That's a warrant. And I can't do it any other way. It is mine - not mine, but the authority of the person chairing the meeting to fulfil his duty to lead the speaker to the point. I have made it possible for my colleague Michálek here to state quite clearly that there was an accompanying letter. I said I didn't know about him. A colleague of Bartoš also mentioned it. So all the Members knew what we were voting on. And there's nothing I can do about it. I didn't censor anyone. I was just... Each Member has the right to point out to the President that he is doing something wrong. I've been alerted by colleagues from other political clubs that this is off topic. Well, I've granted it. I've alerted Mr. Lipavský that he's not speaking to the point. He kept going. And I used the President's right to take his word away. He stopped talking. My colleague Michálek used other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, with his departure from the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore my colleague Lipavský will be Vice-President of the Club with priority rights. So he's probably going to take advantage of the fact that he's going to keep talking. I don't mind talking about Smartwings at all. I really don't. I'm not interested in any of this. And I just respect that every Member has the right to speak here and has the right to draw attention to whether or not it is proceeding under the Rules of Procedure. It can happen to any president. [[Noise and different reactions in the room.]] Now, colleague Ondráček, then colleague Lipavský, Richterová and Benda. Everyone with a point of fact. [[Announcements in the hall that there is a need to vote an objection.]] All right. I'm sorry. I will be voting on the objection to the President's procedure, which was raised by Mr Vácha. We will decide in the vote number 31. I'm asking who agrees with my colleague Vácha's objection. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 31 of the 112 present for the 51 Member, against 6. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's point of fact. [[The reaction from the diaper. Member of the Faltynek report with priority rights.]] I understand. The right of priority is here. But factual remarks tie to the point, and I can't skip them. So I have factual remarks from Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Lipavský, Richterová and Benda. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u48	Thank you, Mr President. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the problem may also be that we ordinary Members do not know. We'll only read what's on the board. If we read that information about the purchases of medical materials and shares in private companies, don't be surprised that some colleagues or colleagues believe that you are speaking completely out of line on this board because we do not know what private letters you are sending to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. That's one. Secondly, I will take the liberty of speaking to my colleague Žáček. Mr President, if we were to evaluate who has the links to whom, you would not be able to make at least one third of the points here. Sweep your own floor!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u49	Thank you. A colleague of Lipavský, with a point of fact. Mrs Richterová will be ready. With a point of fact, you're logged in, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u50	Mr President, I would like to ask you to hand over the chairing of the meeting to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u51	This is decided by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, which is not my decision. I have gained confidence in my progress by voting, so I will continue to manage the meeting until the time for which I was appointed is exhausted. Now, Mrs Richterová. Marek Benda will be ready. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u52	I would really like to point out - thank you for the word - the double standard Mr President measures. When I interviewed the Prime Minister here on Thursday, March 5th... [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure, that is possible. But is it right that the Prime Minister didn't answer my question about disabled pensioners and said exactly what he wanted? And you, Mr President, through you, have completely allowed him to speak for four minutes entirely from the subject. I'd just like to remind you that you're measuring this subway. And I think it would be very appropriate for you to hand over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u53	A colleague, like the Prime Minister and others who have priority rights, can speak to anything. [[The reaction from the diaper that it was an interpelation.]] A colleague of Benda. I'm sorry. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I almost did not want to enter into this. But I think it's clear here that unfortunately, the failure to acknowledge the government's own mistake usually only leads to the fact that we have 40 minutes longer, and in the end, what Mr Lipavský wanted to say is what we will learn. If the Vice-President had acknowledged yes at the beginning, I did not finish the point - it happens to everyone, it can happen - so we could continue. And that's how we get the stew. I think it's useless. Think about how much you want to push the majority around here sometimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u55	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the chairman of the ANO club, Jaroslav Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u56	Colleagues, colleagues, I apologize to all of you for my proposal, which I will make, both to President Filip and to other colleagues. But I'd really like you to calm the atmosphere down a little bit. We need a 19-hour break for that. Thank you so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u57	Thank you. In that case, I'll call a break in 19 o'clock for an ANO club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 19.00 and we will continue this meeting. At this point, I have four factual remarks. The first was for Mr Hájek. I don't see him in the O.R. The second one was Mr. Žáček, he's already giving it up. Mr Profant, he also withdraws. Mr Vácha had a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u59	Thank you for the floor. I am not quite sure if this is a factual point, but I am responding to the previous debates and I am asking you how you perceive the name of that point, if you allow ordinary Members without prior rights to comment on their participation in private companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u60	Thank you. I have become familiar with the letter and the request of the Pirate Party and will also be able to speak on this subject. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] So, in that case, Mr Lipavský is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u61	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I ended up with information that said 62.4 percent of Smartwings and its shares were ultimately controlled by companies established in tax havens or countries whose jurisdictions are used for the so-called "Smartwings'. the optimisation of tax charges, and these are the companies Hengxin Enterprises Limited, that is the Chinese party, NEVILLE Investments and JADA Investments, that is the Unimex Group. In this context, I cannot recall the remarks made at the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies 16. 10. 2017. The meeting was then called An assessment of the signature of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic under a memorandum with Australian coal miners for lithium mining in the sovereign territory of the Czech Republic. Yes, that's right, I remind you of the Lithium case. What did the MEPs then say to the address of European Metals Holdings, an Australian-American company? For example, Mr Hájek of the ANO movement says that the company is based in the British Virgin Islands, i.e. in a tax haven where there is zero tax on profits. Citizens would also not know that the shareholders of this Australian company are largely anonymous. - I like this anti-corruption approach. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip said at the time: And you will close the memorandum, forgive me, contrary to the law on the handling of the property of the Czech Republic, as the Czech rule of law imposes on you, but even with a subsidiary company that looks like an Australian company registered in the Virgin Islands and who orders a special company to cover the real owners. You think that's bullshit? On the contrary, we want you to uncover it. And the best in the end. At that time, the Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš: This company, which is based - now we have just learned - in the British Virgin Islands, has nothing to do with the Czech Republic. It's a mailbox company that never mined lithium. So I only asked Mr. Havlíček - then Minister of Industry and Trade for ČSSD - why he signed a memorandum with this company. The company never mined, it's a mailbox company, it's still changing owners, shareholders, and it's reported a loss of $8.5 million since its founding. Yeah? So, of course, it's a company that's transparent. - I guess there was irony in the voice at the time. I'm guessing it's contextual. I'm quoting the Prime Minister today: so I'm just saying why Minister Havlíček won't answer these questions. I repeat once again that the company, Australian or British virginity, has nothing to do with the Czech Republic. They don't have a license. I don't know about that. Or may Mr. Havlíček say they have some other paper. - Those statements are absolutely magical, and as a copycat, they fit today's situation with Smartwings. So I'm asking the government if it's okay for them that Rainbow's core capital is the half-owner of the Chinese part, 49.9 percent, if the capital of CZK 12 corresponds to the position of a major shareholder of an air carrier, which the government claims to be strategic and national, and it also uses these attributes very variablely. Sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't. If the accountant's statement is that I said Rainbow is in debt, then if the government thinks it's appropriate to save Smartwings, whose major shareholder, half, has a huge debt in his books. If he really wants to save a company that is controlled through tax havens, founded by offshore companies, and if such a company is to be a recipient of state financial support paid by Czech taxpayers. Representatives of the government and the Czech shareholders of Smartwings argue in their vehement campaign for providing financial assistance that in a number of countries governments have acceded to similar, similar situations where flagship national carriers are involved, so if they really feel that Lufthansa, KLM, Finnair, LOT or Alitalia also have a similar opaque and obscure ownership structure, as shown by the company I am talking about. If it really seems justified to the government that Czech taxpayers who are burdened with paying high taxes are subject to the EET system, control tax reports, they are often the subject of unjustified repression and bullying by the Czech tax administration, paying such an adventure with their taxes. And if it seems to her that it is justified for Czech taxpayers to pay the rescue of the Chinese company Rainbow, owned by Mr. Tvrdík CITIC Group Corporation and that he stated in the tweet that it is one of the largest Chinese State conglomerates of companies. Which is represented by the Chinese Treasury. So that's a big battery of questions I have for the government in that thing. My speech had some structure before it was interrupted. I was talking about an inconspicuous property structure, I was talking about the fact that the information is being supplied in a transparent way. And another key fact that I would like to emphasise is that Smartwings are a major carrier, but not a strategic or a national one. They operate a relatively small fleet of aircraft. Just when it compares, for example. What the Polish LOT has, or what Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines, has, are completely different numbers. And most importantly, the importance of these companies is completely different. These companies have central transport hubs where you can transfer and fly somewhere. That's not how Prague works. That's not how Smartwings works for Prague. Although it is true that he is an important client for Prague airport. [[19.10 hours]] As far as the national carrier is concerned, it would make sense if the company were flying from Prague to Ostrava, from Prague to Karlovy Vary, to Brno and back and in Prague you could go somewhere else. No such flights are operated. There's even a LOT flying to Ostrava now. Smartwings operates a minimum number of scheduled flights, five destinations in Russia, while the rest are scheduled flights, but holiday destinations such as Hurghada or Greek islands, mostly 78 percent of which are summer seasons. And then, of course, it's not only from Prague, but it's also from Warsaw, Paris, Budapest etc. I was opposed to this being a strategic company because it is in the strategic documents of the Czech Republic, in the Government's Concept of Air Transport for the period 2016 to 2020, says the following: Given the strategic importance of commercial air transport... and so on from the perspective of the Czech Republic, it will be necessary to support the existence of a balanced structure of Czech air carriers... and so on. And I'm asking if this is supposed to serve as the argument that Smartwings is a strategic business. Because it says Czech companies, not Chinese, not Dutch, not British Virgin Islands. A strategic enterprise is one that is irreplaceable, such as electricity infrastructure, water. I imagine there will be talk of really big companies like Lufthansa or Air France. Like I said, Smartwings are airline vacation destinations. So it can reasonably be assumed that the economic crisis will take place, and above all, aviation is in an unprecedented air crisis, and that demand for both vacation and flight simply declines. National air carrier. Smartwings and ČSA are not a national air carrier. Smartwings was never one. It's always been that low cost holiday. ČSA was previously a flag and a national carrier, and they were the business card, but after total reductions in fleet, destinations, the number of employees made by current owners, we could call it the Šimáně era, they just show signs of small airlines, I dare say, developing countries. Moreover, Mr Šimáně himself recently said in an interview that ČSA is no longer a national flag carrier, as the concept of national airline of the state has long been overcome. And even if I were to argue that Smartwings is a strategic enterprise, I ask the government, how is it that half of it is owned by the People's Republic of China through an inconspicuous structure in the British Virgin Islands? How is it possible that the company - and here I am able to quote part of the facts, because it is absolutely, absolutely essential. Shareholder Smartwings, Rainbow, is also 100% shareholder of CITIC Europe Holding. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the latter company is Comrade Ču Ming, who is a member of the Communist Party of China's Corporate Committee at CITIC Group Corporation and CITIC Limited and Deputy Director General at CITIC Limited. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of CITIC Europe Holding a. s. is Comrade Cai siang - sorry for the pronunciation, I apologize - who is Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Deputy Secretary of the Communist Party of China's Corporate Committee at CITIC Group Corporation. It is generally known that the CITIC Group Corporation, as the largest Chinese state-financial conglomerate, is closely linked to the top floors of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, serves to cover the world's influence operations of Chinese intelligence services and is linked to the leadership of the Chinese People's Army. Indeed, the position of the above-mentioned comrades of the Communist Party of China in the aforementioned corporate bodies of companies belonging to the discussed conglomerate is in itself consistent. So if Smartwings really is a strategic company, or should be, if the hypothesis were to apply, then I'm asking why the government let that happen. And let me just remind you that the last share of ČSA was sold to Smartwings, which was probably by then called Travel Service, in the era of Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Until today, we don't know how much it was sold for. It is speculated that the price was relatively, relatively low. So this could be considered a fatal failure of the Czech government to protect the security interests of our state. In conclusion. So it's not just purely negative that we don't want something, we don't want something. We realise, of course, that there will be an economic crisis, that the aviation sector is going through a deep crisis, that there is a need for assistance from the state. The world will change, and it is not appropriate to keep the sentiment alive businesses that have just been useful before, but will not work in the new world after the crisis for some time. While when the artificial measures were, the markets did not work and were not a good indicator of which company would be socially beneficial or not. But now we have to make more and more use of the free markets again. So I would appreciate the MIT, Ministry of Industry and Trade, to present us with comprehensive information about the situation in Czech aviation, in the Czech aviation industry. As the Coronavirus crisis is affected because, as I said before, the whole aviation industry is going through a number of problems and what are the most advantageous scenarios for its assistance. For example, if there is a risk that you will not get out of Prague, which I believe and acknowledge is the strategic interest of the Czech Republic so that citizens can travel around the world, let them write programs on the so-called. Flying the key lines. This is similar to when regions pay for personal transportation to some more remote, less lucrative parts. I have no problem with that, but any airline can sign up for such a program. For example, if the Prague airport, which is 100% owned by the Czech State, is controlled through the Ministry of Finance, let the government guarantee some financial stability of the airport. I've noticed that she's already announced some savings, and I believe that if there's any bigger problems, the government will take care of him. If there is a threat that some very specific companies that play key roles will be threatened by, say, theoretical insolvency or the fall of the Smartwings, such as the air simulator operating in Air Traffic Control, once again owned by the state, then let the state send some money, let the situation be resolved. I would not prevent the State from buying the ČSA trademark and, together with the rights to flights to the Russian Federation, which are based in bilateral arrangements between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. The government didn't do any of that. We have only a media statement, interviews with Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček and some other interviews with Secretary of Finance Schillerová, Vice Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister has also spoken about this. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize I've been talking a little longer. We have been through the obstruction on the part of the President. I realize that this case has a whole range of immoral and questionable points, so I'm just going to sum up very briefly. I'd like those comments from the diaper not to sound so loud. Thank you. Three points: Under no circumstances can Smartwings be considered a strategic or national company. Strategic companies are those which provide services that cannot be replaced. Two. The ownership structure of this company is completely non-transparable. We don't know who would draw the money, and strings lead to infamous tax havens. And against them, the loud leaders of the ANO movement in the lithium case were defined, but also representatives of the KSČM. And I believe that the current shareholders, such as Mr Šimáně or the Chinese Treasury, should give their own funds to save this company. And if they don't want to invest there, I don't even see why they should force taxpayers to do it. Again, it is up to CZK 2.5 billion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u62	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mr Marek Výborný from 19 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Koten apologizes until the end of today's day for working reasons. At this point... Please, for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u63	Thank you for the floor. My questions will probably be directed to the Minister of Health, because we don't have the Home Secretary here. I have been going over what you said in the past here at the Chamber of Deputies, and I have also been going over the information provided by the President of the State Material Reserves, Mr Švagr. And he reported that already in February they received a request to buy 200,000 respirators, with the fact that subsequently you canceled this request because the government decided to centralize purchases. I was looking at the resolution that touched it, which was probably the March which you referred to in the speech here. I just wanted to ask why you weren't acting in cooperation with the Home Office because... Or they didn't leave the purchase, so when it was already started, the tender procedure was also launched, so why didn't it stay on the material reserve administration? And more importantly, why were you shopping as two ministries? [[19.20 hours]] Mr. Kaňkovský has already pointed it out here. If you let the Home Office get you those respirators, you could focus on fighting the pandemic. You even mentioned here at the House meeting - specifically, I will quote you: the Ministry has created an operational purchasing team in this regard on the basis of the Government's resolution. Which makes it clear to me that you didn't actually have the shopping team until then. So if it wouldn't be much more effective at that point in time to leave it to the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Material Reserves. And according to the material, you were like the Ministry of Preceptors - the petitioner is mentioned by the Ministry of Health. I don't know if she hasn't changed on the way in the resolution, but it says you're going to buy it. So what led you to centralize the purchase under you, which is what I'm getting from the material, or whether it's been changed to the government, then who might have suggested this distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u64	Thank you. And the Minister wants to answer the questions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I will respond and I will take the liberty of responding to what Mr Bartoš said some time ago. As far as the decision was concerned, it was the government's decision. First and foremost, the government has decided that the Ministry of Health will buy centrally protective equipment. I guess since we're the Ministry of Health, we'll actually be shopping primarily for the Health Department. That's how it was decided. Likewise, the government decided that the original contract would not continue, which at that time could not be competed in the order of some short time, because an emergency situation had not yet been declared and we would probably have been dragged into the common market by the Administration of State Material Reserves for those respirators. So in this context, the government has decided that the Ministry of Health will handle this. First, before the state of emergency was declared, the government decided to declare a negotiated procedure without publication under the Public Procurement Act, i.e. was an entirely open call for any entity to participate in. I am here, I think, already at plenary, talking about how many entities were really involved, what was the situation on the market then, that there weren't hundreds of entities that were ready to supply protective equipment at the time, but I suspect there were some seven eight, those that produced drapes or respirators, especially FFP3, because FFP2 isn't actually produced in our country. So at the time, it was really the first impulse, the first order of business. And then an emergency was declared. But it was first the Ministry of Health, which independently purchased protective equipment, and primarily for our hospitals, of course. This was mainly the debate at the beginning, when we did not yet know the extent of the pandemic and how the demand would be enormous not only in health care, but then also in trade, in industry, drivers, etc. But most of all, we had the task of protecting our paramedics in hospitals that are under the Ministry of Health, those are directly controlled, such as Bulovka, who had the largest number of covid positive patients, St. Anne etc. So that's why they decided on the Ministry of Health. Then, of course, given that there was a difficult situation, and that is simply an objective fact, we have already dealt with it here, the Ministry of the Interior came up with the fact that it has contacts in China through Mr. Tvrdík, that it is able to provide protective means in this way, so we have divided that we will provide for our hospitals, so the government has decided, i.e. we will provide for those spinal hospitals of our system, which are directly established by the Ministry of Health, and we are responsible for them, and we wanted to ensure the protection of health professionals in these key hospitals, and the rest, especially regional facilities, but also, of course, outside the fields of industry, etc. I'm sure the Home Office will provide. It is a question of course, we can discuss in the future whether it was the right decision or not, but we have taken our position in this regard as the founder of the key state hospitals that we should have supplied in this way, as well as the regional sanitation stations that we set up, etc. So, let's say we were responsible for our hospitals. So much for why and what the genesis was then. Today, it can be evaluated backwards in some way, but it was led by this idea at that time. So maybe I would still like to respond to Mr Bartoš, because he repeated the things that I have thrown out a hundred times, that they are not, and he repeated some 310 million for Receo and De Sol investment here. I've repeatedly, a hundred times said those orders have been canceled. And not on the basis that we follow the pirát' investigation or some pirát' analysis committee, but on the basis that the companies simply supplied poor quality products. And we made it clear that we were paying after delivery. So, of course, if the tests didn't go through, and we tested all the vans, and I think that's right, we just canceled the vans. And here again, I would like to emphasise one more thing that has been circulating in the media, and it would be a good idea to set it right - as with the certificates. Whether we needed certificates or didn't need certificates. And I say that we did not need certificates, and I rely on the European Commission's recommendation in this regard, which was also confirmed by the Czech Trade Inspection as a market regulator, which says that if the State - because it was not only the Czech Republic's problem, it was a problem for the whole of Europe, because the whole of Europe was dependent practically on supplies from China or from third countries, because there is no such production in Europe - so clearly the European Commission said that if it is a central purchase organised by the State, if it is a health supply, if it is testing the quality of those products, then in such a case it is possible to place the products on the market without the need to verify these certificates. This was also confirmed by the Czech Trade Inspection Authority and it is a recommendation from the European Commission, because the problem was wider, even in other countries. So let's just get this certificate debate straight. We have required these certificates from some good practice of precautionary care, but we do not really need them, because this is where the European Commission's recommendations apply. So let's just really get this certificate debate straight. And I think even the pirát know very well how the regulation is set. So much for that. And as for the prizes, I have also explained several times here, as we were in the Ministry of Health, where we were shopping. And there's no way to compare the Ministry of Health with the Ministry of the Interior today because the Ministry of the Interior was buying, yes, through its contacts in China, and I don't want to evaluate it, it was just that, it was such a long time. We were shopping on the standard market in the Czech Republic - in the Czech Republic - from Czech companies, which of course supplied the products to us, and this is a completely different situation. And when we compare the prices on the Czech market and compare them, I have already told you this once, through Mr President Bartoš, whether you look at the register of contracts, as we have done compared to other public bodies, cities, regions, municipalities, hospitals that have been shopping, etc., and so on - we have the analysis, we will certainly publish it, I think we have already provided it with State Watchers - that the Ministry of Health has, on this weighted average, purchased prices at below average prices in terms of the market in terms of comparison with other public bodies. Specifically, FFP3 respirators weighted average on the market according to orders from the register of contracts 223,39 CZK, Ministry of Health weighted average prices of respirators FFP3 148 CZK, respirators FFP2 weighted average prices on the market 106,56 CZK, weighted average of the Ministry of Health 82,54 CZK. These are clear data based on the actual prices of the Ministry of Health compared to what we can compare with, not if it was purchased directly through contacts in China, but if it was purchased on the standard market in the Czech Republic from various suppliers of these protective equipment. We can talk about the others here, but the respirators were the main ones after all. [[19.30 hours]] So that's just enough to really put the price level into context. As the prices jumped here, that's what I was talking about. I showed these graphs here, which is clearly traceable, how prices changed by hundreds of percent during the most critical days during March and April. There was no price in time and place as usual. There was no market price in time and place as usual. That's just a simple fact, and we can clearly prove that to any control authorities. The SAO began the inspection on 1 June. We'll work with them. We have no problem with them, we have a very clear conscience, we have acted as best we can. So just enough to repeat what I have repeated here several times before, and to correct what Mr Bartoš was talking about. I think he knows it very well, too, but he's trying to build it this way, that there was something untransparable, something unfair, overpriced - certificates and so on. It's just not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u66	Thank you. For the debate? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u67	I'd like to ask you an additional question. You said it was an operational team. Are you going to keep the team? Because if there was a second wave, or God forbid some other disease, if you didn't have to pick an ad hoc team again, whether it wouldn't be more efficient if the government created one shopping site, and then you wouldn't have to deal with purchases of protective equipment as the Minister of Health after that. Whether it won't be more effective if it's the Home Office and the Material Reserve Administration, because the people you have now may not be there in a year, they'll find other places if it comes back. Another thing - but there is already a little lack of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which includes - where are they actually tested and certified for protective equipment? Because if the cells were right, the protective aids were tested in our country by sticking them to the mannequin on the face. Whether or not in this government is going to move forward in any way so that we have a uniform certificate, that's what they probably reminded us of here, because I can't imagine a doctor coming to the hospital, sticking a protective mask on his face and then tearing it down tonight. Because in this way, even according to journalists, even according to the Constitution, they solve it either with duct tape or in some other way. Because if they didn't do it like that, most of the respirators didn't meet the conditions they had, which, on the contrary, is what European certification should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u68	The Minister is reporting for the debate. We've got a little bit of an interpellation. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u69	I'd be happy to answer that. I don't really have a problem answering anything in this regard. The first question. It's true we created a shopping team practically overnight. And it is true that the Ministry had no such experience in this regard. We never bought dozens of millions of protective equipment, any material. It's always been in hospitals. In our country, the system is built by buying hospitals or connecting hospitals together, but the situation was critical, so we created an operationally overnight team from the Ministry of Health officials, from different people from the hospitals we set up, there were people from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there were people from the Office of the Government, there were really a team of about 41 people who worked really day and night, called all the countries of the world, they were looking for protective equipment from Malaysia, China, South America and so on. There were a number of deliveries. The situation was very critical. And I'm sure we don't want to buy a drape after the experience we have. I really won't be shopping for a mask or anything. We ended the purchase at 30. 4. I'm sure if I'm the minister, I won't buy anything. I think we're in a different situation today. The government has commissioned the Administration of State Material Reserves to create stocks that are very massive, in millions of pieces of protective equipment, and I think this is a solution so that we can be prepared for some possible second wave or any epidemic. So the team at the Department of Health is definitely disbanded, and I'm sure there's nothing to buy. And so if I have information from my colleagues at the Ministry of the Interior, their interest in buying isn't very great either. So I think today is a different situation, we have experience here. The management of state material reserves increases reserves and I think that is the best solution in this regard. But it's based on the experience we just didn't have before, unfortunately. Any other questions? [[Mr Cernohorsky states off the microphone.]] Sorry, I'm sorry. As far as testing is concerned, you really need to ask about the Labour Safety Research Institute. This is the only certified laboratory in the Czech Republic that can stamp whether or not the product meets the European standards. I believe that they do it the way they are supposed to do it, that they have all the prerequisites for doing it, and they really are the only ones who can authorityally say if the product meets the given parameters, especially the key filter efficiency, that is to say 95 to 98.9 % filter efficiency of the FFP2, 99 percent and the amount of FFP3. And that's how we acted. We tested every delivery, each batch, and in this regard we were based on the data we received in the course of the test.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u70	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u71	Have a good night. I listened to the Minister in several of his last performances. I don't want to paraphrase it right now, but he actually said everything was fine with shopping. Minister, then, with a calm conscience, you can vote in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry, because it will certainly give you the truth, if you are so sure. And I'm sure it would be valuable to you in a political battle. And I'm also calling on you to make sure, by your influence on your own club, that you, as one man and one woman, support you in setting up the committee of inquiry, because if you're as sure as you are and you've had it all right, then the outcome of the committee of inquiry is clear as well. We're far from sure, but personally, I'm not sure it was. I will not argue that there are problems I know today, I know the news from the media, and the only way to get to whether you or someone else are right is if our colleagues, who would possibly be members of this committee, check and submit a final report to us. So I'm calling on you to back it up. And that's not enough, one vote is not enough to convince your colleagues and colleagues to support it at the same time with your great influence as the Minister. Otherwise, you just can't trust your words. Otherwise, you're your own investigator, the judge, you've absolved yourself. Write down: Adam Vojtěch does everything well. Who checked it out? Adam Vojtěch. Who signed it? Adam Vojtěch. Let's fill in the data. I don't think that's a very common system of control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u72	Thank you. Minister for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That's exactly what Mr. Stanjura said. He mentioned it was fair in a political duel. I think he said something like that: in a political struggle. Because it already clearly assumes that this will be a political duel, that a political duel of the coalition - opposition - will take place on the committee of inquiry. The opposition will have press conferences every week. Even in the statements we're hearing here, you can clearly see the total bias - they bought six times the price here, six times the price here - without any of you knowing anything in detail. It's based on media reports. So it's going to be the political fight, and I'm rejecting it. On the first June of this year, this week, the Supreme Audit Office at the Ministry of Health launched a comprehensive control of the entire purchasing process with everything, came the control team and began to work and will work for the next few months. And I have no problem with that. I really consider the Supreme Audit Office to be an independent institution, but to use this political struggle, I think it is simply not entirely objective. And really, when I look at those statements from my opponents, those preconceived statements -- those are preconceived statements, that is clear from the media reports -- in this case, I just don't think it's appropriate, and let's let the Supreme Audit Office work. He is responsible for this, he is competent to investigate the management of public funds, and then we can really evaluate how it is, whether we are right or the Supreme Audit Office, whether there was any error or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u74	Thank you. I have two applications with priority rights. First, Prime Minister Bartoš. But President Stanjura has the facts. [[Messenger. Bartos is heading for the speaker's desk.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u75	I would like to respond equally to the Minister who responded to Mr Stanjura. He didn't listen to him right. Mr. Stanjura said the committee would investigate. If everything is okay, then with a positive conclusion, and vice versa, the Minister will be able to use it as an argument in the political struggle. That was said here, and I listened very carefully as rapporteur. And then I would like to turn to what was said towards the opposition, I suppose to us, again with some ridicule of the analytical team. We're not looking for these things to beat you over the head with them. We're just analyzing these things, finding out that there's a problem, and if anything's right with me, it was the three cited cases where we or some investigators from iRange discovered it, it doesn't matter, from some server and they said, "Here's the trouble." And then you stopped the business with the companies. There was always this consistency, so the work was always done in good faith. I just think that if at some point some shopping at some price started to work and some, even in those contracts, purchases at another price, it has to be said that it's not standard. And maybe I haven't seen it, and I've always tried to do things very correctly, and I've met some sort of ridicule, but the real thing was just to figure out how the purchases were going so that someone wouldn't screw the Czech Republic so we wouldn't pay 20 times as much, and when we pointed it out, it just stopped and somehow it was being repaired. So mission accomplished for me. And it wasn't about political struggle, it was about factual matters, because your actions confirm that the findings of not only the pirát, but also the journalists were correct. And I, when I get the resolution, I will grant it, because we're spinning in circles here, and then I'll skip that point in the recorded resolutions, because he's useless, and we'll never know anyway. There was that five - an explanation of the enormous differences in purchases, prices of medical aids, because the answer: the differences were because they were, like, the next thing we didn't get in that time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u76	Your time! Thank you. A point of fact - President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u77	President Bartoš explained to the Minister what I meant by the political struggle. It was exactly like that, and I'm adding it to fatigue, because the minister as one of the few members of the government has been here since 9:00, so I'm gonna take it it wasn't a bad idea to turn the words around and put them somewhere else. But, Minister, your logic is really not bulletproof. I'm gonna break it to shreds right now. Minister Vojtěch will come and say: nothing happened, everything is fine. And he's not prejudiced. The truth was simply revealed to us. Then somebody else comes along, and I wasn't in the debate today, and even my colleagues from my club were quite modest, and he says, I have doubts. They're preconceived! So whoever says everything's okay isn't biased, and the one who claims to see some issues that are being investigated is biased. It doesn't fit logically. And I didn't vote to cancel my math degree. And I think logic is a good thing, and it's supposed to be used in these debates. But let's take the floor of the Minister, who says the SAO took the floor on June 1st. I believe that. Minister, I would challenge you to come here on the microphone and say: If doubts about purchases are found in the SAO's final report, I will resign from office that day. Otherwise, the SAO is completely useless. [[Nesroz.]] You chose who to check the purchases, you declared here that you fully believe the SAO's independent approach, so come and say, if the SAO says the purchases weren't right, I'm leaving the government that day. I think that's a fair offer. If you're not scared, tell us about the microphone!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u78	Thank you. I have two factual points, Mr President. You have to hold on a little longer. Three. First, Mr Hájek, Mr Luzar - factual remarks - will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u79	I'm sorry, co-workers, that I'm stalling, but I've already talked about this once. I'm the man who drove the crash. He was driving the crash. And if you're the commander in charge of the crash, the first inscription on the emergency committee is saving people. It's saving people! And the emergency committee wants to save people, then property. And if people are saved and it's a fire, it provides water. And no one's finding out if the water cost a crown, two, five, ten. We managed to knock wood, put out the fire. He managed to put out the fire, the fires are still smoldering, but he managed to put out the fire. And here we have, I apologize to my colleagues, we have a bunch of bunches who have never been near a fire in their life, and now they're gonna talk about buying that water for a 20-year-old, for a 50-year-old, for a 30-year-old! Oh, my God! This has never been in a mine before! It means, it was appreciated, yes, you saved the shaft, you saved the fire, thank you, and let's learn our lesson in advance. I'm here to talk about what we're going to do in the second wave, the third wave. That means we're in a situation, yes, today the government has learned, it's been unprepared. Nobody was ready! dneska she decided to buy new funds into the state reserve fund. I learned yesterday that when there was Mexican flu, it was purchased for 600 million - under which governments? - 600 million means of vaccination, which then spilled because it turns out the flu wasn't there. When there were floods, I'm sure there was a warrant: you buy a million rubbers, a million raincoats, 10,000 ships. I don't know if it was bought or not. If they were bought, it would be criticized how you bought them in a dry time! It's dry, you've got a million raincoats, a million rubbers and a hundred ships. [[Your time!]] [[Thank you.]] So please, let's be fair, let's not use this for political struggle! [[Prime Minister, your time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u80	I couldn't hear it. There. Mr Luzar - two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u81	Thank you for the floor. I will try briefly to sum up two points. First to the credibility of information from public sources and to the analysis team of fellow pirát. The drapes that were glued to the measurements - tragedy. The press smashed it up. First preview of any pattern of the world-famous manufacturer's respirator - you will find that the first thing they say is that you must not wear respirators on your beard because it leaks. You must have a smooth, shaved face to seal. Two. I'm pointing out that they're universal size, possibly. Some manufacturers make multidimensional drapes, which means they don't fit every face. Therefore, when drapes are tested, they are tested for the effectiveness of penetration and filters, so they stick side by side to rule out the possibility of influence. All you have to do is ask the exam room how the tests are done. Second thing. Remember to set up an OKD investigation committee. Pirates have a lot of experience with this. Let the arguments that were raised against the committee from colleagues who are supporting them today. The police are saving it, we have to wait for the police to investigate. The SAO has to deal with this. Politicians don't have anything to do with it, because these authorities are saving it. Those were the arguments that were raised and fought against by the pirát, that it was not true. Today, on the contrary, they turned 180 degrees and used it to set up this commission. So let's try to get back to it and think about words and actions and what we say once and what we say today. That's why we at the club will definitely wait for the SAO's statement, because it will be the basis we can talk about further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u82	Thank you. Mrs Procházková - a factual point. The President has deleted it, so Mr Benešík will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u83	I'll just add to that foreman of mine that I'm really very curious to see if you'll apologize when the result at the SAO is really what the minister says. Will you apologize? [[Right: Who are you responding to?]] To his previous speaker, through President Stanjuru.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u84	Mr Benešík - factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u85	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to perform, but if we're talking about cloaks, I don't know how mine's tight. My wife made it for me. I've never even seen these Chinese drapes, maybe one of you has them. Everyone wore their drapes. I just hope no one's gonna sue anyone for making those drapes for the nation themselves!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u86	There. That was brief in fact. Now, President Stanjura and Mr Beitl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u87	Well, for the honourable Member, by your means, Mr President. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize. I only asked the Minister. I wasn't even talking about overpriced purchases, not a word, look at the log. Should I apologize for allowing me to ask him? Is that how far we've come? That far? Yes. So the ANO Member thinks that when the Member asks - and I do not know what the answer is. [[Nesroz.]] When he answers, do I have to thank you humiliatedly and apologize immediately for delaying the question? I don't understand what you're asking me to do. I didn't make any claims about buying protective medical aids today. Neither. I asked the Minister once, if he's so sure, why he's afraid of the investigation committee. He said, "I believe the SAO." Okay. You believe in the SAO. You chose the controller, so I'm asking you if if the SAO finds any doubt as to whether you'll resign. Should I apologize for this question? Is that how far we've come? That's how far we've come, says the Member. Well, just like that, it's not normal communication. It's like the Bolshevik. You can't even ask anymore because the comrades are gonna lock you up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u88	Did the Minister plead with the facts or the debate? I'm just asking. There really are three others here. Now, Mr Beitl, then Mrs Procházková, and then the Minister would respond to the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u89	I am only very briefly to Mr Hájek through the President. You guys always have these pretty hard-ass comparisons from life. Maybe I'd like to add that. If you'd gone to your crash and ordered Mr. Bakala's water, then you might not have been wondering how the event would have turned out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u90	Thank you. Mrs Procházková, a factual point. Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u91	Mr President Stanjur, through the President, you have said one thing here. I don't think that's what the Minister said. And on that basis, I asked you to answer me if you would apologize if you didn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u92	All right, Minister. Then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to make it any longer. I'm ready to answer anything. You know I'm performing here, I don't have a problem with that. But really, I'm afraid this isn't about some kind of substantive debate. And those statements in the media, the opposition... I say yes. I say, there's been no mistakes, there's been no... Here Mr - and I remember who said what - Mr Kalousek, President through Mr Kalousek, said. Stealing like magpies was a rip-off. So this is the investigation committee? So this man will be a part of it? Or the people on his side? If this counter says you stole like magpies, they were robberies. That's on the record. That's in the stew record, no doubt. So this is objective control? That's not bias? That's rude! Tell someone that he was stealing somewhere, that they were stealing like magpies without knowing anything about it! [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] That's an insult. [[Strongly.]] I understand that everyone here is saying what they want. I don't have a problem with that. But to tell someone that they were stealing like magpies somewhere and there were robberies that Mr. Kalousek showed up here at a meeting, so that's just pathetic. And in that case, I have no confidence that opposition representatives will not behave like that in the investigation committee. In this way. So that's why I say the NKÚ is here. Yes, the SAO may find some procedural errors, maybe we didn't follow all the clear methodologies, the rules, because the situation was absolutely critical, no one has ever seen it here in their life. That's what happened! But that we followed the best of our knowledge and consciences that we did our best, that's what I stand for!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u94	Thank you. Such a factual remark by President Stanjura, then President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u95	Minister, fellow Member through the President of the Chamber of Deputies, so talk to me when you talk about me. I'm not defending other people's statements. They have to defend that for themselves. And I agree with you that accusing someone with no evidence and saying that he's a thief, that it's not if I'm very cunning, that it's not kosher. Where were you when Andrej Babiš said, "Your thieves!" There are four, five thieves in this House, you all know them! [[Strongly. There are voices from the bench: No.]] Where were you with your outrage? Where was Mr Hájek, who was barking at me like that from the bench at the time sitting here to express the same moral outrage that someone without evidence said so mysteriously: There are four or five thieves sitting among you. What did Mr Hájek and his colleagues, your fellow party workers, do? Take a look at the log. A round of applause from the benches of the YES movement! It's in the stew. Mr. Hájek... so when Andrej Babiš says "the thieves are here," it's for applause. If Miroslav Kalousek says "you're thieves," it's for conviction. You're a hypocrite, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u96	President Bartoš, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u97	I would like to remind you that the commission and its establishment are the following point, so if we want to presume now if Mr Kalousek is going to sit on a committee that is not yet set up and is set up at the next point, then we can do it now... I think it's a waste of time. And for me, I think it's been said by Mr. Stanjura here. You're presuming someone's gonna be on the committee. And that committee is going to be a priori like an unfair one. And we're here for the first term. So while Mr. Babiš is looking at the side like that, he's looking at things like that, I'm always wondering how it's possible, but it really bothers me, too, that last time the Prime Minister was standing here and saying, if that's how they laughed and applauded. [[Nesroz.]] And when there's swearing at the House of Commons, there's claps, too, but then... It's kind of like... I guess you learned it from the Prime Minister. When I'm in a tight spot, I put Kalousek in there, and people give me a round of applause. I don't think Mr. Kalousek ever performed here at the time. And like it's not fair to snort like that in the middle of the debate. Especially when the committee isn't waking up yet!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u98	Thank you. We seem to have dealt with factual remarks. And with priority rights, President Kalousek is next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u99	So I wanted to start with a different sentence, but when I've been mentioned so many times, I can't say that if a committee of inquiry is set up, I won't be there either, because we have an expert, that's not me. And if he finds out that everything's fine, as the Minister says, then of course I'd like to apologize for my words. But where were you, Minister, when your chairman blamed me for the applause of your entire club for killing people? I begged him to take his words back. He said he'd never apologize to anyone. I think you're behind him. So don't measure the double standard. But if the committee of inquiry really finds out that everything was okay - and I'm not on that committee - I'm happy to apologize publicly for my words. And I'd like that. There. Why I volunteered with priority rights. First of all, to say that it's not true that the pirát were, that they turned because they were using arguments against the OKD Commission, which they are using today on the other hand. The pirates passionately wanted both the OKD commission, so they want the committee that we're going to set up in that point 4. Unfortunately, we came into this debate fluently. So their argument is still consistent. But I agree that if something is being investigated by law enforcement authorities or is being investigated by a criminal court, it is an investigation under the Code of Criminal Procedure that in such a case there is no point in setting up an investigation committee. But when the SAO's audit is planned somewhere, the argument doesn't apply because there's a huge qualitative difference between control and investigation. [[20.00 hours]] This check will only determine whether or not the law has been complied with, whether or not the process has been followed or whether or not the organizational order has been complied with. But he can't investigate how it happened anymore. That can only be the investigation, whether it's the law enforcement authorities or the investigation committee. I don't think anybody filed a criminal complaint, and I don't intend to. And that committee can do that. And that committee won't do that if it's set up, and I'm very much interrogating it, it won't do that to mediate or lynch someone. After all, everyone will have a representative there, which means every club will have an objective report on whether or not the commission has progressed correctly. It is precisely because we cannot rule out that such a situation will be repeated. There may be a second wave, anything similar can come up, and we've had an unprecedented situation here together, whether in the House or in the ministries, we should map and investigate in detail, so that some mistakes that have happened may not be repeated. That committee of inquiry can be very useful to this. I repeat, the SAO and the investigation are two qualitatively completely different processes. This means that whoever says that when the SAO goes there, we do not have to do this to the commission of inquiry, either he is not fully aware of this qualitative difference, or he is merely saying this as a purposeful argument. But it's not an argument. This would only be the case if the law enforcement authorities were investigating this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u100	Thank you. Good evening at the last hour of today's meeting. Mr Hájek is reporting with a point of fact. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mrs Pekarová Adamová apologizes for the proceedings from 6 to 7 o'clock -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u101	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry, I already have criticism from our ranks, but I just can't keep my mouth shut about some things. I am surprised that KDU-ČSL colleagues here are silent because their chairman, Mr Jurečka, has filed a criminal complaint. Today, we are in a position to deal with the purchase of SAO's protective equipment, and Mr Jurečka has given rise to suspicion of committing a crime through Mr President. That means what more do you want? And as far as the committee of inquiry is concerned, I'm just as irritated as the hypocrisy, 14 years ago, ODS and TOP prevented the setting up of OKD committees, you took 30 million crowns from Bakala, and now you're here to make Mirky Dušiny? Shame!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u102	So, I'm gonna finish reading the note. Mr Michálek apologizes for the rest of today's meeting for work reasons, it was sent at 19.25. There are now a series of three factual points, so Mrs Langšádlová, then Mr Kalousek, then President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u103	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that it is a lot of hours, that we are tired and that Mr Josef Hájek, through the President, had a need to say something here, but there are still rules and that when the President speaks, he reads his apologies and we do not get the floor, so we cannot speak. I wanted to put in too much of a good word for us to follow the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u104	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u105	Through Mr President, Mr Hájek. There hasn't been a top for 14 years, so she couldn't block anything for 14 years. As far as criminal charges are concerned, filing criminal charges doesn't mean an investigation. There may be a maximum preparatory procedure. It's been under investigation since a certain phase, nothing like that happened, which means no investigation is going on. I won a $10 million bet on this term from your chairman once, and he never paid me. [[He's laughing.]] So the investigation isn't running, and we think the investigation should be conducted by the investigation committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u106	Thank you. Mr Stanjura with a factual remark, then Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u107	Mr. Hájek has begun. [[Laughs in the hall.]] On Monday or Tuesday, I don't know exactly anymore, but it was this week, a longtime Vice-President of the ANO movement, a former mayor of Brno, who stepped out of the ANO movement with the words that the ANO movement in Brno is linked to the Mafia structures. Solve this, Mr Hájek, through Mr President. Focus on that. Don't blame others for something they didn't do. The stoka, Congressman Hájek. The stoka, Congressman Hájek. Don't forget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u108	I would ask at this point that we try to stick to the subject. I beg Mr Bartošek, who is at this time the last registered comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm performing because KDU-ČSL has been mentioned. The question why we do not speak - simply because we have respect for your time and for the Rules of Procedure. If pirates have a need to discuss or anyone else, we are here, and if we have something to say, we will apply to the discussion. [[Voice from the O.R.]] Madam, if you'd like to discuss with me, log on to the microphone, I'd be happy to answer, but don't yell at me. So I'll keep going. President Jurečka filed a criminal report, as said here "through the President" - no, he made it himself. And the commission of inquiry - it needs to be realized, and it still applies, and thank God the Chamber of Deputies controls the government. You may disagree with things, too, but I refuse to renounce the possibility and the rule that we have the right to come up with the fact that we want to control the government's actions, even in times of calm and coronavirus when it was a pandemic. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm just sorry that when the Smartwings theme opens up, suddenly there's a problem with the negotiations going on. And when we say we want to set up an investigation committee, there's a very long discussion here about stealing or not stealing. As Standa Gross said, if it's crystal clear, it's no big deal, is it, Minister? Facts, invoices and hard evidence will be crucial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u110	Thank you. By doing so, we have exhausted all the factual points, and so have all the applications for the debate, so if no one else is reporting, I am at this point ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word after the general debate. It's not. In that case, I am opening up a debate in detail to which Mr Bartoš is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u111	I thank you and thank all those who have had this more fierce general debate with us, which has just taken place. I would have just stepped right up here to read a number of resolutions that we will propose in relation to this point. These are motions for resolutions of the Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. We have sent out these resolutions, the President of the Jakub Michálek Club, I think, to all Members, however, it is here that I have several copies. I would read the resolutions now, or there is a possibility that I would read them - yeah, I will read them now, and then, if it wasn't clear which ones are, I can remind you at the moment of the vote. So the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to impose an adequate increase in the amount of medical protective material by 31 August 2020, including the implementation of the crisis inventory of other components in the case of other types of crisis, and to inform the Chamber of Deputies on this matter." That seems like a pretty clear resolution to me. That would be the first. [[20.10 hours]] Resolution 2: "The Chamber of Deputies urges the government to apply responsible policies to citizens and to provide only and only verified information so as not to repeat the confusing situation with assurance of a sufficient number of protective equipment and of the contagion of persons at the start of the crisis.' - Second resolution. Then there is a resolution that has a few points, and I will allow myself to read it in a short version. When the minister said we couldn't figure out together what the price differences were, I decided to cross out the five because I think that's what the checks on the purchases would show. So the third resolution has a number of points, one can vote at a time: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government in relation to government purchases of protective equipment 1. the termination of the ignorance of most Czech manufacturers of protective equipment and, on the contrary, ensuring sufficient support for domestic manufacturers of aids, 2. full and timely publication of information on purchases of protective equipment, 3. assurance of the sufficient quality of imported goods, in particular from China, 4. publication of beneficial owners of anonymous suppliers of health aids, I skipped five, so the fifth time: 5. improving the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior logistics system.' It is obvious that things are not addressed there to the Minister, but to the government as a whole. Another resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies urges the government not to ignore Czech companies in the new setting of medical supplies The administration of state material reserves does not repeat itself and, on the contrary, to achieve the greatest possible involvement of Czech companies in the future." Another resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to prepare national material reserves and reserves of individual components of the state to combat other waves of pandemic with a share of 85 percent from Czech producers." Then there's another resolution that came to me from Mr Kaňkovský, and I'm not sure if it was sent out, apparently not, I have it here, I don't know if you have it at your disposal. It is the last motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to ensure the purchase and distribution of personal protective equipment, disinfection and other material to manage the epidemic through the Ministry of the Interior and the Administration of Material Reserves in case of a second wave of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus or epidemic of other serious infectious diseases.' So, that was all the resolutions I had at my disposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u112	Thank you. I think it is a consensus that all the resolutions have been read, and if no one else is reporting to the debate in detail, I am ending the debate in detail at this time and I am asking if there is an interest in the final word after a detailed debate. If that is not the case, then it is time for the vote. I have already called my colleagues to the O.R. and I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u113	Thank you for your word. Are you calling or am I to introduce, Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u114	I believe that we simply have a number of resolutions that will be voted individually or together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u115	I propose the following procedure, namely that the first two loaded would be voted because they are quite complex, such as resolution 1 and 2 in particular, then there is the resolution of several points from which I dropped the point 5, which I would vote at once as a third resolution. And then there are three other separate resolutions, which we would therefore vote in particular because the last one was delivered to Mr Kaňkovský at the special or later stage when the resolutions were proposed and sent to Members. So this is my draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u116	Thank you. I hope the procedure is clear. I checked you all out on request, please log in with your cards again, when the number of entries is settled, we will vote on the procedure. So, it looks like we have the number of entries settled, so I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 32 vote includes 115 Members and Members, for 109, against no one. The procedure has been approved. So, please, Mr rapporteur, you can read the proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u117	Thank you. Thus, resolution one: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to impose an adequate increase in the amount of medical protective material by 31 August 2020, including the implementation of the crisis inventory of other components in the case of other types of crisis, and informs the Chamber of Deputies on this matter."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u118	Thank you. The resolution is clear. I've started voting number 33, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 33 117 Members and Members are registered, for 51, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u119	Second resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies urges the Government to apply responsible policy to citizens and only to provide verified information so as not to repeat the confusing situation with assurance of a sufficient number of protective equipment and of the contagion of persons at the start of the crisis.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u120	Thank you. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? In voting number 34 117 Members and Members are registered, for 50, against 1. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u121	It will now be a resolution of 5 points: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government in relation to government purchases of protective equipment 1. the termination of the ignorance of most Czech manufacturers of protective equipment and, on the contrary, ensuring sufficient support for domestic manufacturers of aids, 2. full and timely publication of information on purchases of protective equipment, 3. assurance of the sufficient quality of imported goods, in particular from China, 4. publication of beneficial owners of anonymous suppliers of health aids, 5. improving the functioning of the Ministry of Interior logistics system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u122	Thank you. Initiating vote number 35. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 35 117 Members and Members are registered, for 51, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u123	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies urges the government not to ignore Czech companies in the new setting of medical supplies The administration of state material reserves does not repeat itself and, on the contrary, to achieve the greatest possible involvement of companies from the Czech Republic in the future."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u124	Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 36 117 Members and Members are registered, for 50, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u125	Another resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to prepare national material reserves and reserves of individual components of the state to combat other waves of epidemics with a share of 85 percent from Czech producers."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u126	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 37 117 Members and Members are enrolled, for 28, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u127	The last one - this is Mr Kaňkovský's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to ensure, in the case of the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus or other serious infectious disease epidemics, the purchase and distribution of personal protective equipment, disinfection and other material to control the epidemic through the Ministry of the Interior and the Administration of State Material Reserves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u128	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 38. 118 Members and Members are enrolled, for 43, against 1. This proposal has not been adopted. That was all the suggestions, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u129	We've dealt with all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-003-003.u130	Yes, thank you. So we've also exhausted this point, which I'm ending. Let's move on to the last, fourth point of this meeting, which is
