ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u1	131. Ondřej Profant's proposal, Barbora Kořanová, Vojtěch Munzar, Radim Fiala, Martin Jiránek and others for the issue of a law amending certain laws in the field of setting up business companies /house print 446/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 446/1. I will ask that Mr Oldřich Profant and the rapporteur for the first reading of Stanislav Fridrich take their place at the rapporteur's table. I would ask my colleague not to hinder discussions with the Minister of Justice to those who are to be at the rapporteur's table to take their seats. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Before I give the floor to the plaintiffs' representative Ondřej Profant, I will ask the House for peace so that we can discuss this press in a dignified atmosphere. Ambassador, I think it is possible for you to speak your opening words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u2	Dear Chamber of Deputies, I would like to present to you a proposal under which 80 Members from the nine Chambers of Parties, whose name is 'Company in one day', are signed. This amendment aims to enable citizens to become a businessman or set up a limited liability company in 24 hours, simply from the comfort of home, via the Internet. This will support two key areas for the development of the Czech Republic - business and digitization. [[15.50 hours]] At present, the establishment of a limited liability company costs at a minimum of CZK 5,000. But what may be even worse, it costs entrepreneurs nerves and their precious time, which otherwise could be spent precisely developing their business. At the same time, it is important to mention from the outset that we do not want to disturb any current process. In addition to the current process, we want to introduce a simplified process that only those who want to choose a simpler path, faster, less bureaucracy, but less possibilities, but the most common options. We therefore propose to simplify the whole process considerably. I'll show you on a simple graph. [[He's pointing.]] The current process takes about six steps, and according to the World Bank, it takes an average of 21.5 days. Our trial has steps two and you can handle it in one day. We also want the costs of establishing a simple limited liability company to fall from CZK 5 to CZK 10 000 today to just CZK 500. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The World Bank annually issues a ranking titled Doing Business. So how do you do it, how do you do it in which state? When we prepared this bill, we were on 81st place in the business start category. That means in 2018. We're on site 134 today. So we fell by more than 50 rungs. We're behind states like Burkina Faso or Rwanda, Palau, Peru. These are all the states that beat us to how easy it is to do business. I understand that some people find it funny, but it's not funny that we don't have a good business environment here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. If you are discussing a subject other than the current point 131, then please press 446 in the foyer. I'll wait, my colleague will be happy to take a breath so he can show us another graph. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u4	There. The Prime Minister, for example, likes to name Estonia. A relatively small European country that has set itself as its objective to be a modern digitised country. Well, in the same ranking where we're at 134th place this year, they're 14th. That means 120 seats ahead of us. It's a country with an even more complex past than we have. And really, if they can do it, why can't we do it? I think there's nothing easier than going on the same path and being as friendly to your citizens and beginners like the Estonec. I believe that the adoption of this law will positively motivate people to try to start their own business and start new companies. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises is one way to promote innovation and to combat the unflattering reputation of the Czech Republic as the assembly rooms of the West. I really hope that none of us wants to be a Montgomery West, that we want to be a progressive state that fights in competition with the rest of the states about the position of the friendly state where people like to go into business, start companies, make money. The next part of this proposal is the founding of a company... In addition to the establishment of a limited liability company, the law also regulates the establishment of a free trade. It will also be possible to set up online. Moreover, the administrative fee will be reduced from CZK 1,000 to CZK 500, as the cost of the state will decrease due to increased efficiency of the process. We also propose to abolish the obligation to opt for free trades, which today has no legal relevance. The Government gave this proposal a neutral opinion. I believe that we will convince her that this is a good and necessary proposal and here we will have a positive opinion. Of course, we stand by our proposal. However, we are concerned about the merit of the matter. We want to make it easier for entrepreneurs to show that digitization also means positive things, things that entrepreneurs will be happy to hear about. Such things that really provide a smoother course of business. We are certainly not opposed to discussing a comprehensive amendment, as was the case with the three digitalisation laws that have recently been passed here, because we are behind in digitalisation and without releasing the bureaucracy in the field of legislation, we will not move forward. So this is my brief presentation of the proposal. I hope you'll support the proposal. Of course, I'm prepared to explain every detail of our proposal. I'll show you. [[He's pointing.]] Our proposal is really detailed. It's not that the legislation is so long, it's about five pages, but the rest is a explanatory note that really often refers to World Bank data that refers to the data provided by the Ministry of Justice about setting up companies. One more brief time. It's just that the simplest ways, that means, I want to set up a s. r. o., I have two three associates, we want to simplify and provide online. Where there's just a standard contract. Where there are no other obstacles. Of course, we do not prevent anyone from choosing a more difficult path if it has more demanding requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u5	I thank the plaintiff's representatives for the unconventional opening statement. Please note that I cannot give anybody a factual comment, a word on the factual point, because there is not yet a debate. Of course, there will be a standard procedure in the debate afterwards. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Stanislav Fridrich, to present the news report. Before I give you the floor, my colleague, one more apology, Mr Václav Klaus from 17.15 am to the end of the day for work reasons. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I am certainly a supporter and a supporter of digitalisation. On the other hand, I think this bill was too hot a needle. The petitioner called it "Company in One Day." I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you will be starting a company in one day without the slightest problem today, which will probably be confirmed by any lawyer or notary present. And I myself have tried it. I want to be brief, so I'm not going to deal with details such as inappropriate formulation, punctuation errors and disrespected terminology, but I'm going to turn to a few basic areas that I think are worth paying attention to. The first is that actually the founding of this company online, in which case the founders will have to resign to contractual freedom and submit to some form and uniform statutes. Two or three founders have already been mentioned. So they will not be able to conclude, as is common today, an agreed social agreement, but they will have to submit to some form in quotation marks. And the proposal is aimed only at the stage of setting up a company - I would like to emphasise that. It does not apply to its entire life cycle or to any changes. This means that there is no solution to how the social contract would change in the future. [[16.00 hours]] The problem is in the trade law. That's quite something that's been mentioned here. It must be noted that this draft contract is basically just a free trade. When I state a specific case, for example, a craftsmanship of the cominical trade according to the provisions of Sections 21 and 22 of Law No. 455/1991 must be demonstrated by professional competence, this is of course not addressed at all and these trades are not covered by this proposal at all. It's quite understandable, I guess none of us would want to have to review the chimney to make an IT expert without being properly tested. What I see as another big problem is that you can start a company by designing it from home, but you don't start a business account there, so the business, s. r. o., will work without a single crown, without a single guarantee. Which one of you will give that trust and want to work with a company that doesn't have an account and that doesn't have a crown of guarantee? Another thing that is - the law doesn't solve the company's headquarters at all. Yes, it says the village. If it's a community, let's say it's 100 to 200 people, it's possible to find out who's setting up the company. If I mention Prague, which is probably most of the cases, then it is absolutely impossible to find the company's registered office and there is a real danger, according to the lawyers, that 100 companies will write down their registered office on your internet site, because no one will verify it, and then you will solve the problem of execution. And if you want to sign up the company's headquarters specifically, you need the owner's consent, which is a practice that is still being used today, so there's nothing to spare. Another problem is the directive of the European Union and, in fact, the exclusion of the register of excluded persons, that is, there is no solution at all, which people have the right to set up and whether it is based on someone who does not have the right to do so, and there is no control at all through the register in the cross-border area. Here's what I'd like to say for starters. I originally wanted to be tougher in my proposal, and I wanted to propose that this law be rejected for the reasons that I have mentioned here, but I myself believe that there is a way forward in the future and that in the future digitalisation will progress and that it will be possible. That is why I propose a revision of the law, and I will repeat this in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. As he pointed out, the proposal will be tabled in the debate. I am opening a debate in which Dominik Feri is the first to join. I'm registering the application and the plaintiffs' representatives. It is without prior rights, so the first registered is Dominik Feri, then Mr Martin Jiránek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I have applied for that point here sometime last year, so I don't quite remember exactly what I was going to say at the time. However, for starters, this debate is expert. I think that any other time we should be clinging to, say, some terminological precision, because it has meaning here, and this debate is being watched by people who are professionally engaged in it, that is, it is necessary to make a strict distinction between the company and the company. This has a major impact. The business company is one of the business corporations, the company is the name under which the business company is kept in the business register. There's a point. Please don't take this as some kind of sticking to official language, but here it's very necessary from the point of view of the law. What I certainly wanted to mention is - I have signed this bill and thank you for raising the question - so that we do not completely exclude notaries from it, because notaries are the legal state that now provides the service, providing the service for the state, providing it very well, in my view, under very difficult conditions. The Minister of Justice is here, she knows very well, she'd like to give them a raise, she'd like to change the tariff, but unfortunately it's not possible, but she says we'll see it soon enough. I don't think the notaries should be the ones to hug. If they had been hugged, it is bad for us too for a simple reason, because then we would have lost practical experience. The notary chamber itself tries to raise the topic of the electronicisation of justice and the electronicisation of the founding of business companies. Last year, in October, a conference on this matter took place, taking into account the adoption of Directive 2019/1151 of the European Parliament of 20 June 2019. For example, the conclusions of this conference, some proceedings on what was being discussed there, should be discussed in the committees. I am not illusioned that we could discuss this here, that we could do better on this subject. It is also the question of some technical inaccuracies and unclear issues mentioned by the rapporteur here, so this is also something that often affects government proposals that have a much longer, say, pedigree and work on them more people in more places, and it can still be corrected, it can also be corrected by a comprehensive amendment, which mentioned by the appellants' representatives, the honourable colleague Profant through Mr President. So I suggest we let this pass on the constitutionally-legal committee. That's where we can have the debate. We can also organize a seminar and a round table on the topic of setting up companies, but returning it back means that we do not want to deal with the topic at all. As I say, notaries do good work, do good service under difficult conditions, but even though almost every political party represented here has been shielded by wanting to electronize the state administration, and now on such a fundamental subject that affects thousands of people, say well, we might want to deal with this in a different way, there is no rush yet, there is no need to put anything into the legislative process, it would seem a little alibiistic to me. I must also say that in the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we do not take too much active action on cyber justice issues, although I know that the Ministry is working on it a little bit from another wound, and having such a press there wouldn't hurt at all. So I strongly support that we move forward with this press, at the expense of extending the time limits, at the expense of having enough room for discussion with the notary chamber and with other stakeholders, but to go back now and say no, no, wait for something else, wait for what the directive will bring, I would not consider too happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u9	I thank Mr Dominik Feri. Now, Mr Martin Jiránek in the debate. You have the floor, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u10	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I have three short points to make. It is a pity that the Minister is not here because in 2018, in May, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders had a survey conducted by the Minister at the time to help young people do business. The three most cited arguments concerned two things: reducing costs in the beginning of business and simplifying administration. This means exactly the things that solve our proposal, young entrepreneurs want, and it came from the survey of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. First of all. Secondly, just for the record, we already operate this system as a demonstration of how it works on urad.pirati.cz you can already start a company. And in addition to the fact that dozens of companies with dozens of entrepreneurs have already started there, that is, the problems that a colleague has named here, the entrepreneurs do not have the problems, and they are taking advantage of the fact that it is cheaper and faster. [[16.10 hours]] Three. Since our system is popular with entrepreneurs, one of the largest banks in the Czech Republic has already approached us with the fact that it wants to establish cooperation with us and to modify our system for their needs so that they can improve their customer service. This means that it is an interest among beginners, among students, as confirmed by the report from the association, it is an interest among entrepreneurs themselves, who are already registering through the system, and it is also an interest among large players on the market who see this as a great opportunity to simplify the start of business for customers. I'd like us to get this to the next reading and really talk about it, as my colleague Feri spoke, and improve the small inaccuracies and confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u11	I thank Mr Martin Jiránek. He made a factual comment by Tomáš Kohoutek, and I would ask a representative of the club YES and social democracy to ensure the participation of one of the ministers. The Minister of Justice has just left, and the Vice Prime Minister may have been here, not sitting on the cabinet bench, but discussing with his colleagues, so I would have asked him to come back so that we could continue. I would like to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Just a minute. [[The Vice Prime Minister is coming.]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I ask you very much to take your place on the bench of the government. With a factual remark, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u12	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, fellow pirates through Mr President, do you really think it is difficult to start a company in the Czech Republic in one day? I've been setting up companies like this for at least four years. If you don't believe me, ask your Stev. You know what I'm talking about. I mean, in the Czech Republic, it's really not a problem to start a company in one day. A notary entry will be written, the client goes to the business office, goes to the bank, starts a bank account, goes back to the notary, the next day the company is registered. Nowadays, there are hundreds, maybe thousands of companies that have been set up in one day. In your proposal, you say that you want to simplify the creation of companies and reduce costs. Yes, in Denmark, Estonia, in other countries, companies are actually established in order for EUR units. But no one cares about you starting a company in Denmark for twenty-thirty euros, but then every year you pay a few hundred euros to run those registers, because those registers have to be run by somebody. Today, for example, the cost of setting up a company is 2,700 court fees for the fact that the company is, of course, registered in the Commercial Register. You also want a limited liability company not to have to make up capital. I beg you, what nonsense. Either you do business as a businessman, you guarantee your entire property, and that costs you a thousand crowns today and one trip to the trade office, or you set up a limited liability company where the partner does not owe the debt of the company, but, of course, the rules for the founding of the company are more demanding because we already have a number of companies that are written on white horses and so on. And if those companies were based on a computer, how do you want to control it... [[Time warning]] I'll check in later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u13	Thank you. Now, Mr Ondřej Profant, with a factual remark, is ready for colleague Munzar. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u14	Dear colleague, I understand that in your party it seems normal that 2,700 is paid for inserting a line into the database. It's not normal for me. That's right. It's a simple record. There are a few data, nothing complicated, and as you well know, exactly, our party operates an online application that allows setting up companies, but it's not comfortable, it's unnecessarily expensive, there are unnecessary many complications, there are in the background paper processes that can be eliminated. I don't know if you're fighting here to keep this legal environment inconspicuous, so things are still being copied out of paper, instead of being electronically from the beginning, so that typos, transcriptions, etc. can not occur. It can't really be digitalization like this, and I think you're just lobbying here for notaries to have more work to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, with a point of fact and one more point in fact, Mr Kohoutek. I beg the peace of the House. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to one more detail in this debate that has not been mentioned at all. Can you imagine the ideal situation where you open a registration page on your computer, pay a crown, and in five minutes you have registered a company in your business register, a company s. r. o. And now imagine that you will register the company so easily, but I ask the petitioners - have you ever tried to cancel the company s. r. o.? Have you tried to go through the annabasis, the huge annabáze, which is with the dissolution of the company itself? And now imagine that the registry file has thousands of data, each person simply starts a business without the notary explaining and telling him what the problem is, and that person starts 20 companies a day and can't use them at all, he just has them based because he started them. And now he's gonna want to cancel them because suddenly, execution, somewhere, it's gonna be a big problem. So, nice colleagues, when you come up with a way to cancel the crown with.r. o., and cancel it in 24 hours, so I'll support all ten of you with your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Tomáš Kohoutek with a factual remark and another factual remark by Martin Jiránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u18	Mr Profante, through Mr President, when we have electronic judicial files, the entire system of justice will operate electronically, then we may want the founding of companies to work and the entire trade register to work electronically. How do you prevent a homeless person with a chip ID from selling that ID for a few hundred crowns to someone, and the person in question will chop 50 companies in one day on the homeless person with a chip ID? Because there won't be any control or public authority or notary, and he'll be doing one tax evasion and tax fraud after another for those firms. You've got it all figured out. Don't be mad at me. Because at the moment, we have passed the law on the right to digital services here. There we said that within five years it has to be done so that the state is ready for it, and in my opinion, when it is ready for the right to digital services in general, then let the companies be established digitally, but we cannot overtake the situation that we will start companies online as you want. And even that platform you have on your website, it's nothing but that this guy fills out a form that will then generate some documents and documents and then process the documents and process it with the process I told you. The only difference is that on your platform, people will write it on some Internet browser, while current clients, when they want to start a company, just write it in an ordinary notary e-mail that prepares it the same way. It's not the only difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And I have five more factual points to make. The first is a colleague of Lipavský, then Bláha, Profant, Okamura and Feri. My colleague Munzar, duly logged in, I'm sure he'll wait. As I read the list, I understand he's got plenty of time. Now, Mr Lipavský, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is really fascinating to watch a lobbyist perform live here in plenary. You were talking about Stev, so he's the deputy mayor for the pirate party of Štěpán Štrébl in Prague 3. We gave the app to the public, and now we want everyone to use it. To offer it to the state. So making excuses that something else isn't digitized, and that's why we can't digitize this part, that's really the top of the excuses. Excuses, excuses, excuses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u21	Another factual point - Mr Jiří Bláha, will be prepared by Ondřej Profant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u22	Dear colleagues, I've made some notes, I've got one on my cell phone. This means that I would recommend that the plaintiffs visit the Ministry of Industry and Trade's website from time to time. That's 15 over there. 7. 2019 published an article about the start of a business, where it is clearly written that we let the start of a business of legal and natural persons be done in one day. The only thing that cannot be purchased in one day is a VAT application. Of course, this is what we are working on to make an exception in this case, that at a time when a higher deduction would be needed, it would not be allowed, only after the VAT would be really examined in terms of whether the company wanted to manipulate it in any way. Otherwise, I would certainly welcome it if you wanted to deal with entrepreneurs so that you would take business advice if you went to the group to reduce administrative burdens if you were to participate in the subcommittee on the business environment. You would certainly learn that the most entrepreneurs are plagued by execution, insolvency, labour market, cardinal times and abuse of illness, statistical reports, digitization, robotization following Internet access, high-speed internet and expensive data, the cost of contributions for work - we have hugely expensive contributions for work, bank charges - which are among the most expensive in Europe, food stamps - as we are being blackmailed by dietary companies, interest on loans - which belong to high, today to the largest in Europe, bank loans and their complexity, subsidy projects and their complexity. And finally, I'm gonna go back to the executions, insolvencys, and most importantly the enforcement of the law. So these are the things that the businessman is worried about. And I'm sure if you come with me and support me, we'll do a great deal of work, but what you're yelling is just rocking the water. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u23	We continue with factual remarks. Now Vice-President Tomio Okamura, a colleague, Dominik Feri, will be prepared as well as a Member of Ferjenčík, Martínek, Jiránek. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the debate here. For the SPD I say that we are glad to be co-chaired by a bill that will enable us to become a businessman or start a businessman within 24 hours, and even at reduced costs of 500 crowns and electronically. I am a little unpleasantly surprised at how many Members are here, who are throwing a stick at this proposal without suggesting anything constructive themselves. The government has already had the opportunity to demonstrate the digitalisation of the state administration. There are no suggestions here in this regard, it's limping. On the contrary, as the SPD, we want the government to be digitised in order to save both citizens and government and bureaucracy. And I think this proposal is just delicious. In addition, today's situation is that it takes a lot longer than this proposal to start a business. When we look at the world leaderboard, how quickly they are founded in the world of society, the Czech Republic is in an unflattering place. Overall, it can therefore be said that this proposal is a big step forward. In addition, it is also possible to pay the fee of 500 crowns by credit card, so there is no need to go anywhere. So, on behalf of the SPD, we are pleased to be a co-president, and I must say that I would also like to call on other Members to support this proposal, and we will take a step forward to liberalise the Czech Republic, so that those citizens who want to self-employ should be able to do so without any obstacles. I think we should all support this. And I am curious to know who will vote against, because even in any second reading, a number of adjustments can be made to make it comfortable for those who do not agree now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Dominik Feri's factual comment. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm forced to respond to what's going on in here, like, between the lines, and that's that there are some lobbyists who just want to keep the big deal for notaries. I find it really inappropriate. I find it inappropriate. I'm saying this as someone who's also signed there. It seems inappropriate to me, and hopefully no one will suspect, I am not a notary, nor do I ever want to be one, but it seems inappropriate to me that, first of all, the very nature of the proposal is clouded by this, and there is some strange policy being made here, which, of course, is possible, but for the benefit of the matter, it may not be. And it's not appropriate because it just doesn't correspond to reality. If notaries had such an engraving and such a deal, then why the hell aren't the authorities taking over? Why isn't anyone interested? It just doesn't match reality. And anyone who knows anything about it and has tried to find out about it knows so well that a number of notary authorities are going to settle down. And that, too, is simply not why we should deal with them. Some kind of, say, economic sustainability of notarial authorities. But those notaries should only be present for that reason, especially because they know the practice, the view from the penn to the moving train is completely different from the view from the going train to the peron. That is why we should discuss this matter with them. What I have to say, what Mr Bláha said here through Mr President, is very correct. The VAT registration really brings us down a little bit in those charts. Perhaps this is why this should also be directed to the Committee on Budgets, if necessary, to give sufficient input to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. But saying that somebody's trying to keep some big business for notaries, please, he's pretty out of it. And I'm not a notary, I don't want to be. And know that for many of my colleagues from the law school in Prague, the economic aspect is one of the reasons why these notaries do not want to be in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's factual comment now. Tomáš Martínek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I merely wanted to respond briefly to my previous speaker, colleague Bláha, who spoke about the things that are really bothering businessmen and mentioned the tax burden on labour. I have repeatedly proposed a reduction in labour taxation here, as well as the ANO movement had a reduction in labour tax burden in the programme. So I wanted to ask you to finally present it so that we can approve it with the ODS and with you. We've got a lot of voices here. Unfortunately, for those almost three years since the election, it hasn't moved. But you have to put that forward, because unfortunately, the opposition only has 85 votes, so we need... 92, respectively, depending on which parties we count as coalition. Anyway, we need at least one of the government coalitions to be willing to reduce the tax burden on the job. Unfortunately, the ANO movement has not yet submitted this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment by Tomáš Martínek. Martin Jiránek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u30	Thank you. Hello. I will also respond briefly to my colleague Bláha because I was invited to attend the subcommittee on the business environment. I have to mention, I go there. I also go to expert discussions that deal with the issues of entrepreneurs, but also others. This also proves that I am proposing amendments that will help not only entrepreneurs but also other citizens. For example, tomorrow we will approve here within the framework of the project My taxes my original proposal to extend the electronic deadline for filing an electronic tax return, and so on. So I think that this activity is there, and I hope that even this proposal, which de facto points to it at first reading, that we are trying to digitize and we are trying to become the European tiger to attract companies to attract capital, to attract investment, to become a truly European tiger not only in digitalization, just as Estonia is now trying to do, for example, so that we really support it at least at first reading and any shortcomings or suggestions from other coalition or opposition parties simply discuss it in the second reading when discussing this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Martin Jiránek, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 15 a.m. to 18 p.m., Josef Hájek apologizes for business reasons. Now, therefore, the factual remark of Mr Jiránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u32	I would like to thank my colleague Bláh, who really well described the problems. I deal with big and small companies, especially those executions, as they often point out, I agree, that is a big problem. I would just like to stress that these are the areas that are mostly plagued by larger companies and mostly longer business. If someone is thinking about doing business or starting a business, they certainly don't solve execution problems, etc., because they just need to primarily solve the start and start. So I'm aware of the big firms' problems, but what we're dealing with is the little start-ups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, now duly registered, will be prepared by Radek Koten. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues, and I would like to introduce you only briefly to the ODS's position on this proposal. We care very much for the long term that the conditions for business are as simple as possible and as friendly as possible to the business environment. This is also one of the reasons why many of us from our club are co-chairmen of this law. Unfortunately, over the last few years, we have often seen the opposite trend in our country, where an environment for business is being created, say, full of paperwork, full of bureaucracy, where even entrepreneurs are often fined for banality. With almost every government bill that affects the business environment, we see increasing strictness and reduction of tolerance to entrepreneurs, strengthening the power of state administration, at the expense of the rights of entrepreneurs. Tomorrow, for example, we will discuss the tax code, which is an essential example of this. And all of this leads to the creation of an atmosphere that is explicitly demotivating to the creation of new companies and the development of business. If we look at the data on small and medium-sized enterprises that are still waiting to be discussed by our Chamber of Deputies, we will find that between 2016 and 2018, the total number of small and medium-sized enterprises has fallen by almost 7,000. The significant decline was in 2017, while the number of entities increased in 2018, but overall we are still in a negative balance sheet. The negative atmosphere in the business environment and the fear of bureaucracy also lead young people to often seek employment rather than embark on a difficult journey of business, and they are often discouraged right from the start. So we see this bill as one of the possible steps to reverse this trend and to remove some obstacles at the start of the journey so that people don't get scared right away and, as I said, be discouraged right at the beginning, even before they start doing business. At the same time, we are aware that when a person takes the time to do so, the setting-up of a company can take place in a number of days at quite a higher cost than it is in this law, but we consider this law to be a simplification. So those goals of the law, simplifying processes, simplifying people's lives, providing people with modern services, those are the reasons we could sign up for. And we understand that there may be some partial reservations here, which we believe can be corrected in further readings of this proposal, and therefore we propose extending the deadline for a 20-day discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u35	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Now with the factual remark of Jiří Bláha. Radek Koten is still ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u36	Dear colleagues, I have to respond once again because what is being said here during the course is absolutely outrageous, because the worst thing for us entrepreneurs was really under the strict right. That means that if the odees were in charge, we entrepreneurs were really at their worst. I have to say that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is taking a number of measures, which is why a business package has been created, and I can present to you here what you might read at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, on their website, it is immediately available for inspection. This means, first point - support for family business, fulfilled at 70 percent, even before long will be interest-free loans for family companies, you certainly know that family companies are the vast majority in our Republic. Easier startup - completed at 66 percent, and this is also related to the article that I read to you before, that within one day you are able to establish any company, we can talk about VAT, there are many possibilities. Changes in laws only twice a year - we agreed to it here, you guys did it yourself. The end of tax exemptions - this is being worked out to ensure that there are as little tax exemptions as possible. Single form database - met at 50 per cent. Concentrate all information obligations in one place - met at 50 per cent. Limiting the statistical survey - met to 50 percent, and for the smallest absolutely, the smallest we removed from all statistical reports. This means that employers who employ a few employees do not have to report anything on statistics. For the eighth time - easier and lower taxes not only for small companies, there we have met only 20 percent so far. Compensation of execution costs - there I oppose, I want zero burden for employers. And a more helpful construction agency - you know we're working on it. So I'm sure the Ministry of Industry and Trade is trying to take steps, and all we have to do is watch. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u37	Mr Vojtěch Munzar's point of view. I'm sure Koten's colleague is ready. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u38	Thank you. I would like to respond by your means to Mr Bláha. I would just like to remind him that these were right-wing governments, and it was the right-wing government that created the conditions here at all, so that perhaps you, too, could start a business. Don't forget that there was no free enterprise before, in socialism. The space for business has been created, so don't say you've had the worst of right-wing governments. You could've started a business because of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Colleague Bláha reporting for one more point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u40	I have to react again because I've lived through it all. When I started my business, there were old laws, because I started in 1990, and there was no right, there was only one movement. And it didn't do anything until then before I started my business, so I started my business pretty easily. I went to an ex-national committee, and there I said I wanted to make coffins, cremrole, they gave me a stump like this based on the fact that I brought them a taste, and I could immediately start my business the next day. Nobody held me up. I didn't have to deal with anything. The moment the ODS came to power, they told me I wasn't qualified to do it, that I couldn't do it. So my wife had to vouch for me, who I had done it for three years at the time, because she had a school, she had a gymnasium, and I was just taught that I could do business under her leadership, because I wrote her an internship, and she guaranteed me that I would do the right thing. So that's how you set up the terms of business for us. And that's how I could name one species after another. A millionaire tax, an increase in VAT that went from 5% to 5%, and that's how one punch after another goes, one document on another. When I first started, no one asked me to do anything. Absolutely nobody at all! As soon as the ogre came, we had to do everything. So today we're fixing what you've wronged, and believe me, it's taking the longest time. It's gonna take another 20 years to restore that condition, because you guys have totally killed this place for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Leo Luzar with a factual remark. Co-worker Koten is still standing by. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u42	Thank you for the floor. I just want to point out that it was 1986, when business was allowed in the Czech Republic, in Czechoslovakia at the time, entrepreneurs were created, entrepreneurs, small businessmen, and then in 1989 they only took over and began to build the salt that ODS now owns. But it really was 1986. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Radek Koten's proper application now. And I am registering applications from the post - both Mr Profant and the rapporteur, yes. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to make a few comments on that. This amendment to the Act is intended to enable you to become a businessman or to set up a limited liability company simply from home through the Internet and within 24 hours. The costs should not exceed CZK 500 and could therefore be paid, as we are used to from purchases from the Internet, i.e. the classic credit card. I remember the beginnings of my business when I founded a limited liability company in 2000. And I have to say that it was quite a long run, because it took me at that time, i.e. registration in the Commercial Register, at least two months, because the court had a pretty long time to do it, and it took me from March until sometimes even until September, because I had to document quite a lot of documents etc. This amendment therefore has the task, in particular, of simplifying and reducing entry into business, making the process more efficient on the part of the state and providing services to a new businessman who decides to do business, user-friendly so that we do not leave it to him at the very beginning. Today, a citizen must wait another five days for the application for a trade licence, usually on an official day, which is usually Wednesday and Monday. The proposal would therefore make this process much easier. A citizen would not have to wait for an announcement and this would have been processed automatically. With the help of this electronic submission and thanks to automatic data processing, starting business will not only be easier, but also cheaper by those administrative fees, the overall cost of starting business will decrease significantly. In the case of a natural person it will be from CZK 1,000 to CZK 500, there it is not so noticeable, but in the case of the creation of a company, there it is relatively noticeable because of the 5 000 to 12 000 that it can cost, it will be at CZK 500, and I think it is much more interesting. I hope that this proposal will at least be able to move forward to the next reading, where we can continue to discuss this. But we need entrepreneurs to create jobs here so that we no longer have unemployment here. And here, it's kind of an incentive for people to actually start these companies so easily and not be afraid to do business. So once again, please support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u45	I thank Mr Radek Koten. With priority right now, Mr. Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u46	I see I'm probably the last of the debaters. Let me join the debate, not only as a co-president, but also as chairman of the Economic Committee, as a co-president of this bill. I think it is a great achievement for business in the Czech Republic. Few people may know that the biggest tax revenues to the state budget are not from the largest corporations, but from the small, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs who pay taxes to the state budget. And not only that, it is necessary to maintain business in the Czech Republic. I also remember a time when an entrepreneur equals a fraud in the Czech political scene. I believe this time is long gone. And if we manage to approve this law, it is an excellent basic act for the number of entrepreneurs and businesses in the Czech Republic to increase. So far, unfortunately, according to current statistics, the opposite is true. The numbers of entrepreneurs, both small, small, medium, and employers are constantly decreasing. Mainly, the number of employers is decreasing dramatically. Nobody wants to employ people anymore, they don't want to take responsibility, because the state will then take so much of those companies that they have nothing left, only the responsibility for the people they employ, and maybe a little bit of money, but rather debts. So I consider it a good achievement. But I guess that's not enough. I've been watching the debate between two of my previous speakers from ODS and YES. Gentlemen, I have been here for some time, but I can say that the bureaucratic burden on entrepreneurs and businesses has been increasing since I remember, which means that all the governments that have been here have increased the bureaucratic burden on entrepreneurs and businesses, and unfortunately that includes YES. We have EET, control reports, other things a businessman has to do. And the company that's going to be, I can almost imagine that the company that's going to be, if it doesn't have enough money, it almost can't start a business because it can't stand the bureaucratic burden and everything it's supposed to do. That's what you need people for. It's not like it's done on its own and you've filed some sort of inspection report. All this must be done by people who understand. That means, for myself, starting a business in the Czech Republic today is a big problem, not only with the fact that it takes you to start a business, and perhaps thanks to this law, this point will be over here, but also because of the bureaucratic burden that everyone has to meet and do. So instead of discussing who's less and who's more, let's make a deal. And if we can pronounce this law, let's continue with the bureaucratic burden. [[Will it fail?]] And, as Mr Bláha said here, through Mr President, a member of the Economic Committee, we will have a long way to get rid of these papers, papers and stamps. And I wish it was as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u47	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Mr Jiří Bláha and President Marian Jurečka with priority rights. I ask whether the rapporteur wants to take advantage of the right of priority, or until the end of the discussion. At the end of the discussion. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, for the last time. In our republic, there are a million companies per 10 million inhabitants, roughly, if we take it that way. Out of millions of companies, there are about 800,000 small and medium-sized. But we have another 3.5 million trade certificates. So I don't think we have a complicated establishment here. Yes, it's complicated when the company wants to cancel. But yes, we have an incredibly complicated administrative, bureaucratic environment here. Why employers don't want to work today, but they have something completely different to do. It's that there's no job market. Because of the fact that there is no labour market, of course, employees - some, so that it is not given again, that everyone is bad - abuse it and, of course, act accordingly. Today, it is common for an executive within the company to refuse to perform the function of one that has people under him because he does not know what to do with them. When he asks them to do something, they don't want to, they don't want to do it, of course he'll take it. There's a lot more to this connection. And the biggest connection is the 30 years we've been working on. One bureaucratic item next to the other. That's how we started, from setting different security regulations to different checks. Today, one inspection will cripple the company on the day of the employer's control for the whole day. But then for the next few days, when he has to comment on the registration of the check, which is often on ten, fifteen pages, the entrepreneur has to comment on it to protect himself in some way. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u49	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. President Marian Jurečka. We are still in the debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u50	Thank you, Mr President. When I was here watching the previous shooting between Mr. Blaha and some colleagues... [[Reptilian reaction: Foolish with long a!]] Foolish, sorry... some of my right-wing colleagues, I thought it was a little smiling because I started doing business at college in 2002 as a private farmer. I worked for 12 years and it took me two days to start the company in 2002. Clean time was a matter of a few hours before I went over those authorities in a hurry. Of course, I'm glad some things are going to get easier here. We use modern instruments of the 21st century. But if this is to be a demonstration of efforts to simplify the business environment in this parliamentary term, then I am very sad. Because as a businessman, I deal with far more complex things that the state puts in my way. In the submission of this government coalition, for example, within this meeting of the House, it is necessary to amend the tax rules. It is extremely fair, and it will make life so much easier for entrepreneurs when this government is withholding VAT for the next 15 days! Did you ask the businessmen what they said? I don't think anyone's applauding it! I think if you asked them, they'd rather not do 15 days than say that this is a dramatic simplification of the business environment. Look at the current topics from last week! Tax control, when the tax inspector of the tax office demands whipped cream for ice cream, changes the VAT rate of the product sold and bullies the girl who did this! Does that seem like a normal fair business environment to you? Let's talk about that! I'm getting percentage rates here, how the plan at the Ministry of Industry and Trade is being implemented in terms of some simplification, when I look at examples from this practice, I find it absurd. Enter a simple text in Google, put it in: šikana by the Financial Office. There are dozens of specific documented examples where particular entrepreneurs draw attention to absurd cases of control. Well, for heaven's sake, let's have a nice look at these things. And now, through Mr President, I am addressing Mr Bláha: I appreciate the efforts of the new Minister of Industry and Trade, Karel Havlíček, to try some things. That he's trying to support his family's business. Thank you for that, but go see what the Ministry of Finance is doing in the meantime, Mr Blá through Mr President! Well, that doesn't seem right to me. So, please, nicely, the cosmetic debate that we had here was absurd given the state's obligation to transfer to businessmen, and that for the next 15 days, it would hold them more than 20 billion. Crowns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u51	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka and ask Mr Profant if he is interested in the performance. My colleague Bláha has made a point of fact before. You have properly applied, Mr Member, and the rapporteur has said that he wants to speak at the end of the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to questions or to Mr Jurečka's outbursts. I just want to remind you that I've been Bláha with a long, foolish life. And this is exactly how foolish I went to his ministry five years ago when he was a minister, and I almost got thrown away from the round table by him, that I took the liberty of telling him what I didn't like in some of his resorts. So he approached us businessmen five years ago when we came to him with an open heart and a foolish wish, so only because he had the opportunity to change the business environment, and it didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u54	I'm sorry, I can't do it. Mr. Colleague, I'd like to ask you about your professional union, the Bakers and pastry chefs, four years of cooperation between me and the Union. I must say that we have worked on many of the initiatives that your Union has brought in in relation to the Ministry of Agriculture, but also, for example, in relation to the OP PIK operational programme concerning the Ministry of Industry and Trade, so that your business can be supported more. That's a perfectly clear fact. And please, nicely, I've never fired anyone from a meeting at the Department of Agriculture. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, you yourself declared publicly that working with my person was good. And now that I've taken the liberty of saying a criticism that I think is factual, and you haven't really refuted anything I've criticized, you've used this argument. And in this House, who knows me, he knows, and there are Members from the last parliamentary term who were in opposition at the time, I never refused to help anyone if it was rational and I could help as a minister. So please don't use these unfair practices nicely! And ask for the leadership of the union that communicated most with me, Mr. Dřízal and others, how was cooperation with Minister Jurečka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Profant. There is no final word, there is still a debate and I respect the wishes, even if the rapporteur has the right to speak in the end, so you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to stress that we have organised a seminar on this subject under the auspices of the Economic Committee, which I thank to the Chairman of the Economic Committee. He was also attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, we discussed things there and certainly everyone had the opportunity to express themselves. It has been said many times that in some way it can be done today or years ago, that in two days and so on. It usually does if you have the right contacts or luck. But the World Bank data is clear. And so if the notaries especially have a problem with World Bank data, then they should probably deal with the World Bank, so why is he badmouthing them when things are right. Don't laugh! It's in the statistics! Twenty-one and a half days. The rapporteur was here accusing me that the proposal was losing its contractual freedom. Yes, that is the essence of the proposal that you can choose if you go the way you have a more complex solution, when you consult with a notary, you will use his professional services, which is quite right and right, or if you want to have the contract as a vast majority of people quite normal, according to the muse, and you will use this service. After all, if you find that it doesn't suit you, you can change the contract later. But the important thing is that you can start doing business properly, not going through the trade license, even if your work doesn't have the character of a business venture, and so on. The rapporteur also explained to me that the companies would not have an account in place - but they would have an account in place! Today in the application we published at urad.pirati.cz, you will choose to create an account during the creation. As my colleague Martin Jiránek said, banks communicate with us that they like it very much, that they are of course interested in entrepreneurs, so it is not. Company headquarters. Well, that's enough to study the proposal in detail, and in the explanatory statement, there's chapter 3.7 on page 33. Of course, we're counting on the mansion. There's a difference between a social contract or a founder's contract and a business register. Of course, there must be a full registered office in the Commercial Register of a company which is established on the basis of a legal title or consent to the location of the registered office. Again, nothing changes, it's there, just read it there. Furthermore, of course, the argument - we do not have a guarantee, i.e. a principal. Most of your parties have been here longer than our party and since 2014 the minimum deposit is one crown when starting the company. If it sounds like some kind of principal who's gonna cover a lawsuit and subsequent damage to a real business, not an ice cream order, you're probably not doing it too well. 'Cause I don't think one crown covers anything like that. After all, 95,7 percent of companies are founded with an initial deposit of up to CZK 200,000, which, once again, when we imagine the collapse of the company, the litigation, the number of creditors, etc., will cover almost nothing in practice. [[17,00 hours]] It was also said by Mr Kohoutek, through the President, that we do not have an electronic court file. Well, which party has the Justice Department for six years? Six years, and we haven't moved anywhere. It has also been said that this is merely about setting up companies, such as my colleague Luzar, through Mr President. Yes, I agree, it's about setting up companies. It's a parliamentary proposal. I will be very happy to work there too, because I also do not think it is as happy as it is difficult, but this material is a little more complex in today's practice, and therefore closer cooperation with the Ministry of Justice is needed. That is why we did not put this in the parliamentary proposal. We'd be happy to process it. A colleague of Ferim. We are counting on this being directed to the Economic Committee. Of course, I'd be happy to go to the Constitutional and Legal Committee as well. Finally, I would like to remind you that this proposal was signed by 80 Members from nine parties from this House, including members of the ANO and the ČSSD movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u57	Thank you. President Stanjura is in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u58	I can't do it. Absurd debate, in my opinion absurd about how to start a company. Our proposal, presented here by my colleague - if there are reservations, let us extend the deadline between first and second readings. We can deal with this. I hope we can make a deal. But we're only talking - I don't want to downplay it - about setting up a company. And then what if you start it? What business environment do we have? For Mr Blaha with a long 'a' through the Vice-President. He probably hasn't noticed that his movement has been responsible for creating a business environment for seven years. He probably didn't notice. That was kind of a opposition, non-governmental policy speech. That's what you always have to realize when I listen to his opinions, that he's part of a government movement, not a opposition movement. Such a specific example. In fact, the government is doing something completely opposite to what it's saying. The tax system is supposed to be procliential, for taxpayers to benefit. The Minister and the Government will take away 27 billion taxpayers and reduce state fines when they are illegally engaged in the Financial Administration. Which of these two measures is proclient and for taxpayers? I think we're gonna answer each other's questions. Neither. The direction is exactly the opposite. When a paper EET is introduced, the secretary will just say - it's simple, 540 forms, everybody will fill it out. It's probably not complicated, but we need someone who has cash sales up to 600 (?) CZK by hand, up to two employees to fill out a quarter of 540 boxes? Isn't it just because someone's about to grab them by the word and by the specific numbers? I have to say, if I have good information that the form has already been downloaded from the tax administration portal. That's the argument, too, whether it's a decree, or the tax administration can do the forms as it pleases. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, and last week, I noticed Mr. Prime Minister and Madam Secretary's emotional efforts at those small pubs who only have the beer and the drowning man. So if the VAT is reduced, they'll lower the regulars' price. Madam Secretary and Prime Minister absent, there is no turnover of CZK 1 million per year in these small pubs. They're not VAT payers. They don't care if it's 10, 15 or 21 because they don't charge any VAT. Yes, they buy with a tax of 21 percent. That'll pay the state. So if you really want to take care of small rural pubs, it's not a reduced rate for a draft beer, because VAT doesn't apply to them. You were opposed to a reduction in excise duty on beer, which would help even the little ones. You were against us removing VAT from the EET. I remind you, the entire opposition has repeatedly proposed and voted to remove the smallest of the EETs. You're the one who put them there. Now they're compensated for the EET, you're gonna lower the VAT they don't charge. This is crazy, right? That's not normal. No one can seriously mean that they compensate the smallest. I'll give them a new obligation, yeah, I can fill 540 boxes quarterly, which is 2,160 boxes a year, which comes out about 4 a day, or I don't know how many, but VAT doesn't even touch them. Not at all. But the Prime Minister says to them, the regulars, they've got, like, 40 grand a month, so figure out how much profit they're making to get those regulars to check how they're going to lower their beer price because of that VAT. Well, that's easy. I think those pubs can answer those regulars - we're not gonna lower anything because we don't charge you any VAT. Then maybe the government will pay them back. And so it is with everything, with the so-called aid of entrepreneurs. We still want to help entrepreneurs, but the best way to help them is to leave them alone. They didn't come up with other responsibilities. Ask someone who's unlucky enough to pick it out by the Czech Statistical Office, what the little ones have to fill out. Then somebody's gonna add it up and then they're gonna work it out because the numbers are true. So don't get in the way of doing much business. But this government, when it wants to help entrepreneurs, almost always - what do they think? A grant title. Minister Havlíček, a great promoter of the EET even when he wasn't in government, has now come up with an idea because the villages are shut down to subsidize it. So he closes it first, and then he subsidizes it. And it's called business support. Well, I'd ask the government not to impose more and more duties. You can let go of this. If you have any reservations, we'll be able to do that in those 80 days. Or maybe there's another possibility that the government will actually take it, overwrite it, instead of "a," it'll write "i," or vice versa, represent it as its own government proposal, and then it'll pass. I don't care. Rewrite it now between the first and second readings. But I want to point out that the law is important, but it only deals with starting a business. And then whoever succeeds comes through a much harder time to deal with the responsibilities that the House's majority actually impose on them today and every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u59	Thank you. We will continue the debate with Mr Bláha's factual remark and then the Minister of Finance will respond with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond to villages, pubs and small shops. This situation, why the village pubs and shops are disappearing, is completely different, and it is because you have allowed imports here in recent years at sub-cost prices from abroad, that is to say, subsidised products. Let me give you an example. Previously it was common for meat to be imported here for 25 crowns, while the production price of meat in our country was 32, in Germany 34. And this is how we could go. We could go all the way to Spain, where it needed to be 35, but still the meat was imported here for 25. What's gonna happen? Our farmer has nothing to subsidize it from, so he's interfering with breeding, so obviously the people who take care of it don't have a job in the village, they go to work where? To the city. If they just sleep in the village, they don't buy or spend in the pub! It's logical. So if we ban imports at sub-cost prices to our Republic from the other side of the world, we'll get to the fact that we're gonna have a job in the village, and that's when we're not gonna have to subsidize pubs or village stores. It's simple, effective. And imagine that even before 1989, the government's Garniture knew that very well! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u61	Thank you. One more point in fact, Prime Minister Stanjura's point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u62	I almost don't feel like it, but for Mr. Bláha. Tell the Prime Minister. Why are you yelling at the opposition? I highly doubt the measures, but so be it. You have a majority, not us! So you can do it at home in the YES movement and don't yell at us. And if you really want to say, Mr. Blá, how we did before 1989, how the communists organized it perfectly, well, maybe they banned imports. I think it's everything. I think everything! If you really remember how full the shops were of great food, great quality, you lived somewhere else, Mr. Blá, and it's foolish to tell us that to use your words. Then leave the fascination with the previous regime somewhere else! That doesn't really belong here. We have to turn this down, this idea of how great the groceries were before 1989. Oh, yes! How many were there? How could we choose! Yeah, sometimes they had it on Mondays and sometimes Wednesdays. You could have made a choice. Sometimes it was January and then April. You could also choose which month you would go to buy it. So don't tell us such fairy tales!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u63	Thank you. And I can't give the Minister the floor yet, because there are other factual points. Mr. Mr. Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u64	I just want to know so much why you always respond to something other than the thought. And the idea was that in the 20 years that you've been in power here, you've allowed the whole of agriculture to be destroyed within the market. That means that what worked here means that we were self-sufficient in a number of foods, in the production of pork - exports, in the production of milk - exports, and that's how we could go, so we got to the fact that we depend on what they bring to us, and we often get milk out of the same milk and yogurt comes here much cheaper than we can make. And not because they made them cheaper and more efficient in those other states, but because they are more subsidized. So that's how we figured it out. When you fought for the European Union, you allowed the quotas that were for us to be much softer than the frantík and other nations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u65	Thank you. President Kalousek with a point of order. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u66	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, by your means to Mr Bláh. I'm asking for tolerance that sometimes this discussion deviates a little bit from what you say. Sometimes it's hard to find that idea. However, I would like to point out that much more than imports, this economy is dependent on exports. If we are going to full production capacity, we must export 80 per cent of our goods and services, because only 20 per cent will be applied on the domestic market, we have a relatively unique structure, and any prohibition will, of course, bring reciprocity from the other side, and, given that we are dependent on export, it would damage our economy many times more. I'm still from that generation that remembers the National Price Office. So we can introduce him again and start saying how much he has to cost, and I assure you, those endings are terrible. I also experienced them when I was half my age. And we don't have to do everything with a ban, Mr. Bláha. Your beloved chairman owns the biggest meat importer, Animalco, so convince him. We don't have to ban the imports. Convince him to share his margin with the villages, make him sell it cheaper when he calls on the innkeepers to share it with the people, so let Animalco share the margin with the people in the villages, and it'll just be cheaper, because your chairman will decide. It's just about your powers of persuasion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u67	Thank you. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 17 to 17.30 hours for work reasons, but I see her here, so maybe the apology has paid up until now. And we'll continue with the factual notes. Mr Petr Bendl is next, then Mr Jiří Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u68	I'm just an educational window for Mr. Bláha. In 2015, the Czech Republic's self-sufficiency in milk was 130 percent, in 2017 - 117 percent. So we produced a lot more milk than we used up. And logically, what about him? I guess we had to take him out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u69	Thank you. Mr Bláha has withdrawn his point of order, so we will continue the debate. The Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and then President Michálek are registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Although we will be talking about the amendment to the tax code tomorrow, I suspect tomorrow at third reading, whether I am correct or certainly this week, however, I must respond to the glove thrown. Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman Stanjura is not here. He always chooses - I've already done it at first reading, at the Committee on Budgets, at second reading, at the Committee on Budgets, and now, of course, at third reading, and today I'm going to make a little bit of a pre-rehearsal - from the amendment to the tax system. But the fact that this amendment very much creates a legislative basis for an online financial office, in order to make it easier to make a pre-fulfilment confession, to simplify control procedures there, introduces the possibility that the taxpayer, if he agrees, to communicate the result and tax control essentially via emails, introduces there, and I admit, I will say it in advance, I have seen your press conference today, I have been able to see that the pirát proposed it last year, and I have then promised: yes, we are counting on it and it will be in the amendment of the tax code. We had the same efficiency, and it's there. That means we support the electronization, the filing of confessions for those who can serve it on paper today. That is, if they decide to submit it electronically, they can. They will have a postponed deadline for submitting a tax return for a month, and thus a deferred due date, because the tax is due within the time limit for filing the return. We're lowering interest from 16 percent to 10 percent. And the blamed loss of the five-day liberating period, we compensate by shifting the amount from which interest will be calculated, thereby losing the entrepreneur five days and getting another tens of days. I'll do it again tomorrow at third reading. And the 15 days that have been blamed on me here, the 15 days - and I explained it, I sent a segment exactly after the day why it is, to all the members of the budget committee - that 15 days is because we want to continue the trend of withholding only questionable excess deductions. And I said, and I'm going to repeat it again, that before the Financial Administration's inspection report was introduced, it held 5 to 7 billion a year. Five to seven billion that weren't in the pockets of tax payers, but they were in the pocket of the state, in the Treasury, in the cash flow state. It's 800 miles today. after four years of inspection report. We have managed to eliminate basically carousel fraud in our country, which was confirmed by the Supreme Prosecutor in his final report, NCOZ in his final report, and we want to continue to do so and to retain only the disputed part of the excessive deduction. That means, I explained, you have a countdown of 500 thousand, the issue is an invoice of 200 thousand, only she's holding. And that's why the Financial Administration needs that extra 15 days. I have given examples that the 30-day deadline is one of the shortest times in the EU. I said on the budget committee, the kind of Germany that I'm constantly given here as a role model, it's six months from the measurement. We have 30 days to measure. And let's remember that today it's like months. It takes months to measure from the contested deduction. According to the Methodological Aid Financial Administration can be up to a year and a half. And we're going to cut it down to 45 days and just hold off on the issue, I mean the Financial Administration. The EET form is actually withdrawn. It was a draft form, he didn't go to the press, and he never had any 500 boxes. Those were just defined lines, and the form will be issued this week when I approve it. When I approve! [[17.20 hours]] And we put tax simplifications, flat-rate taxes, into the interreort. I know, now you're gonna tell me there's gonna be at least ten factual notes that the ODS came up with this. But I've never seen a proposal, a legislative one, except for media proclamations. We've processed the flat-rate levy. And he's in the interreort, and everyone can meet him. And I believe we're going to have a debate about him here soon. That means one payment, one levy for taxpayers with income up to one million. And as a choice, not a duty. As a choice. And a famous beer. I would like to remind you that we had a reduction in VAT on the draft beer - the Ministry of Finance wanted it in the last parliamentary term, it was in the Government's programming declaration and it became part of the amendment to the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales. It is perhaps logical that VAT, tariff reductions, or any rate, concerns VAT payers, we may not have to convince ourselves of this here in any way, and that perhaps there could never have been anything else to talk about but VAT payers. I would like to remind you that the brewed beer - every alcohol - has always been at the base rate, which, on the contrary, has increased in recent years. That means from 1. 5. 2004 19 %, from 1. 1. 2010 was already 20 percent, from 1. 1. 2012 was 20 % and from 1. 1. 2013 21 %. So we're the first government to cut it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u71	It will be followed by factual remarks. Mr Ferjenčík, President Kalousek, in that order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I would just like to respond briefly to your claim about that problematic little piece of the law. You're talking about 24 billion crowns. I dare say that 24 billion really isn't a tiny piece. It is an increase in the state budget by CZK 16 billion and an increase in other public budgets by CZK 8 billion at the expense of companies. And you're defending that because of these 24 billion you're gonna take away for 15 days, you're gonna be able to hold them a little less than 800 million. So you're holding 24 billion for $800 million for 15 days. And if all you really cared about was meeting those deadlines, and you didn't care about the cash flow of the state, then, of course, you could have moved the VAT on the other side. That means you could shift their VAT maturity a few days, and you could compensate for that. But of course you didn't do anything like that. So that's why we don't like the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u73	Thank you. President Kalousek with a point of order. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u74	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I'm afraid that your argument about how over-count advances have to increase by 15 days is a misguided argument and you're not telling the truth. This repayment of advances under your law, which we will vote on tomorrow, is only under control and there is no deadline. Before that, there's a search operation that doesn't return anything. So there's no reason to extend the deadline by 15 days. It's definitely not the reason you're bringing up here. It's against the text of your law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u75	Thank you. It is now Mr Michálek's turn in the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u76	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to get back from that tax-to-tax branch to what we're discussing right now, or "a firm in one day." Now there has been such a paradoxical situation that some, I think, don't quite remember what was promised before the elections, when there were those discussions, when everyone promised digitalization, how they could quickly start companies and so on, and they don't have to fulfill their electoral promises. So I pulled a text from a book called "What I Dream" when I happen to dream. On page 31, it says: "In Qatar, people make almost all communication with the public administration through a mobile app without waiting. " Mr. Faltýnek, that's your boss writing, you should listen. But you're talking to the secretary here, and you should listen to what the boss says. [[Schiller]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u77	I ask that we all address ourselves through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u78	That's right. I'm sorry, through the President. The boss says, "Now. Entrepreneurs from Estonia can start a new company online in 18 minutes. Young politicians from Finland or Canada attract technology companies and innovators to their countries who create thousands of jobs there. And we Čech have all the prerequisites of using this revolution and going back to where we were a hundred years ago. In the ten most developed states, in the world's top in technology. And the state will provide its citizens with top service and will not burden them, at all. Because when we want something from the state, we fill, we wait, we pay. Let's cancel. Like in Qatar, they just scan your eye, and then you can use the vending machine that's on every corner, or the mobile app to arrange, for example, the sale of an apartment or car login. You want to start a business? Yeah, online, 18 minutes on the computer. Tax returns on the Internet last three minutes and you will receive overpayments within five days." So now that it's about breaking bread and deciding whether we're going to put in for a minimum fee, not for the $5,000 or $10,000 today, how many different companies are choosing for corporate creation templates, especially some notaries, so now we have a chance to do it. It's gonna be decided today, so it's gonna be voted on. And we need to get back to those election vows. 31,270 companies were founded in 2018. If we take that $5,000 reward for one company, that's $150 million that divides between 450 notaries, which is 330,000 per notary. On the contrary, we propose that it be reduced from about 5,000 to 500 crowns, so that even if a young person who starts a business and has tens of thousands of investment costs does not have to pay a completely unnecessary fee to a notary or some similar institution who just enters it into a database when he wants to set up a standard company on the basis of a template where it can be arranged by an automaton. So we're gonna help people who start business. I wanted to ask you, since we have signed this together, we have worked it out, what Mr Babiš had in the programme, so that the proposal that was also made with the members of the ANO movement, who are signed under it, and now suddenly somebody wants to go back to redoing it, with Mrs Kořanová, with Mr Králíček, to do it together so that we can move on. Because the proposal to go back to redoing means we're gonna kill it and that these people are gonna have to keep waiting and paying, and that it's probably not gonna make it to the end of the term. So you who want it, who want it not to have to pay those fees to start companies, to help young entrepreneurs or actually any businessman, it doesn't matter whether young or old, this will really help everyone, so please consider whether this decision of yours today is in line with the program you ran with in the election, or, on the contrary, it should be ordered by the committee to discuss it as soon as possible and to approve it and those people can use this service already. I think that entrepreneurs who start a business have a lot of costs to cover, and that we have no moral right to burden them with another thousand crowns for a thing that is now an absolute excess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u79	Thank you. President Faltýnek, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First of all, I would like to apologize to President Michálek for not paying 100 percent of my attention to his performance. On the other hand, Mr Vice-President, I would like to tell Mr Michálek that there are people here among us - there are not many - who are able to do more activities at once. Maybe cook a few meals at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u81	Thank you. And with a factual remark, President Kalousek will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u82	I would like to supplement President Faltýnek - or run several ministries at once. But the endings...!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u83	Thank you. I have no further application for the debate. Anyone from place to place to debate, please? I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. Final words. Is the plaintiff interested? He does, so Mr Profant's final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u84	Thank you for the debate. I don't want to make any new arguments because I find it unfair. However, I would like to repeat once again that the proposal envisages maintaining the current path and adds a simplified path for those who are interested. Everyone can choose if they want to make it easier without other participants, where they just fill in the details, get signed statements and so on and everything will work, they can do it remotely, e.g. from abroad, or if he has any specifics, or maybe he just wants to deal with it the old-fashioned way. Of course, what we're missing a little bit, it's a focus. We, of course, do not aim at some as traditional entrepreneurs, but rather to modern start-ups. In the Czech Republic in recent years several so-called. unicorns. Start-ups worth over a billion. No, not unicorns. A billion dollars. And I am very glad that such capable and entrepreneurial people are. And precisely these start-ups are often created in very simple, small conditions, and every bureaucratic obstacle is useless for them. And at the same time, they're deciding if they're gonna set up the start-up in another country because it's not very important to them, which country they're in, in which country they're taxing. By reaching out to these people, just as Estonia, for example, has been able to meet them, they will not leave. Otherwise, they'll be leaving. They're gonna build those start-ups just to sell them in America, and the capital is gonna disappear. The company will no longer employ people here and so on, which I think is a great shame. I would like us not to ignore these people to meet them, for example, to move Estonia from our 134th place to the top of the Doing Business World Bank ranking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u85	Thank you. That was the final word. The rapporteur wants a final word? Yes, please, Mr Fridrich, who is the rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u86	Thank you for your word. First of all, I'd like to say that I haven't read anything to the translator here. I would never dare. And I consider it a normal discussion. We just have different opinions and we make arguments. So there was no remorse. Two. I'd like to say that this is the 134th place we're on the rankings of the world. Yes, it's true. But it is necessary to realize that there is also accounting, establishment of the company's registered office and registration of VAT. Again, even from my practical experience, it is possible to start a company in one day, and you certainly don't need any connections or any broad contacts. The proposal specializes only in one area and that is free activity. So it's definitely not about covering the entire business spectrum. And I would like to say one thing that led me to lead the recast proposal. We're still talking about how hard it is to start this firm, what it can do, how it works. But I'm from a business environment, I've lived there my whole life. And for me, the key argument is how you're gonna trust a company that's set up without an account in a bank, without a crown in an account and without a company's registered office. Well, I certainly wouldn't have concluded a contract with a company like that. And the argument that the crown is no guarantee. Yes, it's true, it's not in terms of money. But from the point of view of the bank's checking you out and the bank's setting up that account for you, that guarantee is already there for you. And no matter what I do not delay, because, as all the colleagues here have said, everything has been said, I'm just going to compare the current situation with the proposed adjustment. So a valid modification: Notary registration, trade license, bank, consent to the registered office. The proposal that was made here is a social contract over the Internet, like at home on Sunday at midnight. But then the trade license - the bank consents to the registered office if you want to do business and if you want to be trustworthy on the market. So the only difference that's there is between the notary entry of the electronic creation. Both are capable of being able to do in a day. And I think that trust between businessmen is much more important. So, once again, I suggest that this proposal be brought back to recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u87	Thank you. That was the final word of the rapporteur. And, as we have heard, here was the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. This is a proposal with which we will now deal with the vote. I have summoned Members and Members to the Chamber, and I have now signed you all off at your request. Please sign up again with your voting cards. Thank you. We're ready for the vote. We therefore vote to refer the proposed proposal back to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 208, 159 Members registered, for 84, against 70. The motion has been approved. This proposal shall be returned to the applicant for completion. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the rapporteur. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u88	Thank you for the floor. So I think it's now proven in practice how electoral promises are kept. And I call on the Government to send us comments on how we are to redo the proposal, what is to be changed there, so that we can submit the proposal back to the Chamber of Deputies as quickly as possible, so that it is approved during this parliamentary term and that citizens do not have to wait for it for years and years to come, and pay the 150 million each year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-001-131.u89	Thank you. Now, an apology. Mrs Monika Červíčková apologizes for today's meeting between 18.15 and 19am on account of the negotiations. There's a point next.
