ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u1	2. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point, you have received House document 7144. I ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is excused, to present the proposal, and will be represented in the opening words by Minister Jan Blatný. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come before you today on behalf of the Prime Minister and the Government of the Czech Republic to ask you to extend the emergency by 30 days. I do not like to do so, but I do so with an apology and humility to you Members and to all the people of this country. But I also come before you with a clear conscience and knowing that there is nothing else I can do. This whole year, and in its second half in particular, our country and all of Europe are fighting the pandemic of coronavirus. This is a biological process that we all together, across all countries, are trying to influence, and we are only doing so partially so far. We are all in the same boat, and the differences between countries are small. The Czech Republic does not do badly in this fight, but it can win it with the vaccine, which will fortunately arrive to us in the coming days. We've already done a lot. We were the first in the surrounding countries to introduce repeated population testing to stabilise the situation in the elderly's homes. Death rate has dropped by 20 percent, and we are no longer at the top of this ranking. We were the first to introduce population testing for the public and since the beginning, i.e. from mid-December, we have identified about 10,000 non-signal individuals from the population who would otherwise infect their neighbors. So we protected tens of thousands of people who would otherwise have been infected. We manage to stay in the hospital's fragile stability, especially due to the extreme deployment of paramedics. Army, firefighters and police help paramedics day and night in this difficult task. We have some of the most accurate data in the EU and in the world in terms of information on the epidemic. Ironically, it puts us in a difficult situation sometimes, because countries that don't have these data look better off than we do, who report exactly the truth. So much has been done, but so far it is not enough. On the other hand, I know that there are hundreds of thousands among us who have been taken from the pandemic and who, despite government efforts, have significantly limited earnings. There are millions of those who can't normally live, who can't go to beer, who can't go to the theater or sports. But we're in the same boat. And so it is in all the surrounding countries. I know it makes me sad, and I'm fully aware of it. On the other hand, I also fully realise that we must continue to act and that we must still take measures that hurt. In order to do them, we need an emergency, unfortunately there is no other option. We are at the highest levels of risk, and we need measures that may not be possible without an emergency. That is why I am repeatedly asking you to extend the emergency for 30 days, and I believe that you will proceed to today's decision as responsibly as ever. Let me just briefly mention in detail the information that leads to this request by the government. You then received detailed information from me and the Office of the Government in preparation for this meeting. Why is an emergency necessary for further management of the Coronavirus? Without an emergency situation, effective anti-epidemic measures cannot be taken efficiently and rapidly in a given legislative setting, in particular measures that lead to a reduction in population mobility. Why must the mobility of the population be reduced nationwide? The equation is very simple. The reduction in population mobility plus the limitation of contact frequencies is equal to the slowdown in the spread of the disease. The epidemiological situation is constantly showing very risky trends and the need for very rapid intervention during Christmas cannot be excluded. Support for hospitals, social facilities, etc. The evolution of the epidemic has taken on growth dynamics corresponding to the reproduction number 1.2 to 1.3 at present. And it should be pointed out that the number of newly diagnosed cases is increasing. Although they are also growing as a result of successfully increasing antigenic testing, which is desirable, it is clearly necessary to realise that the numbers of newly infected people are not falling. The impact on hospital care is essential. Risk developments are taking place with different intensity and different phases in all European countries, and they are taking different measures in order to prevent the very flooding of the health system. Since different countries have different legislations, at first glance these measures may seem diverse. But let's remember that most of these states are using some kind of emergency status equivalent, for example, a law set up by a central lockdown and so on. If we compare the measures in force in the surrounding countries, let me say that, for example, the V4 countries are in a very similar situation. Slovakia has an emergency. Hungary has an emergency. Poland does not have it, but it has a number of other restrictions. Germany calls its emergency state a hard lockdown and is planned until 10 January. Austria has quite the same measures as us, although the lockdown ended 6. 12. Spain has a lockdown until May 2020/2021 and an emergency. France has an emergency called a sanitary emergency until mid-February. Belgium has put in place area measures with the risk of possible tightening up. So I'm not asking you to do anything that isn't used to and that doesn't happen in the surrounding countries, because that's where the virus is spreading, as it is in our country. If I compare the percentage gain of newly diagnosed persons in the last week, we'll find out, and it's also included in the material you have that's almost 30%. The risk index calculated under the antiepidemic "dog'. A few days ago he reached 76 and also indicates a worsening epidemic situation, however I know that this score is not the only parameter for decision-making. [[14.30 hours]] A permanent disease of vulnerable persons, vulnerable groups of the population, is a risk factor. In the Czech Republic we still register a high proportion and the number of diseases between seniors and generally high intervention of vulnerable groups. At present, however, this is mainly the result of community dissemination, as the number of infections in social facilities has fallen significantly due to the application of repeated testing. And it's gonna need to be continued. The numbers of newly diagnosed seniors are rising by 15 percent last week. Here, please note that this is only half the increase in the overall population, which reflects the very effective testing strategy in the elderly's homes, which we will continue to pursue. However, the increased number of cases in these vulnerable groups pose a potential risk to the hospital system, as in this risk category the likelihood of hospitalization is up to 30 per cent. The total number of hospitalized patients is now fluctuating around 4,500 and lying on intensive beds due to this diagnosis around 700 people. The further development of hospital care needs is therefore a risk, and in some regions, such as the Moravian-Silesian Region, the risk is already manifest. The numbers of persons newly admitted to hospitals are now increasing to around 350 per day. The development of the number of diseases in those risky and vulnerable groups then indicates a likely further increase in the number of hospitalised up to around 400. And if the risk scenario is met, then by the end of the month, there would be up to 7,000 hospitalized in our hospitals, of which 1,000 people in intensive care units. What can be expected by the end of the year if there is no reversal? The model used, which unfortunately very much hits the data, which we see afterwards, because our prediction is really very accurate, says that if we do not act clearly, then by the end of the year more than 11,000 new cases of coronavirus will be daily. It is therefore necessary to intervene more strongly again. Finally, let me summarize that the current evolution of the epidemic is a risk and is monitoring the growth potential comparable to that of most European countries. That is why we are also asking for measures that are comparable to most of Europe's countries. The dynamics of the spread of the disease are increasing, but so far it is not reflected equally in the burden of hospitals, and this must be maintained. The numbers of hospitalized people are more or less stable, although there are differences between regions. In addition to day-to-day monitoring of all major risk indicators, there are two main tools to limit the spread of the disease: Repeated antigenic testing and consistent preparation for incoming vaccination. In order to be able to handle all this, it is necessary to continue the set-up of antiepidemic measures. Repeated antigen testing has already proven its effectiveness. We know that after the currently available vaccine has undergone clinical testing with more than 40,000 people, its effectiveness is approximately 95%. Thus, more than a small light at the end of the tunnel is evident in what direction to go. Until then, it is necessary to observe and be able to ensure limitations and current levels of risk. We need an emergency. That is why I will allow you, as I said at the beginning of my communication, to ask for an extension of the emergency for 30 days, knowing everything it carries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, too, Minister, for the introductory words on this material. Before I open the debate, I will read the apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, who apologizes today from 14:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. According to Article 109 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice') and Article 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of the European Union') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of the European Union') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of the European Union') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of the European Union') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of the European Union') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union') (hereinafter referred to as "the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union'). In the case of a short hearing on a proposal for an extension of the emergency situation, no factual remarks may be made in the debate, the Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to Members authorised to refer to the matter to the Member's club's opinion. I am now opening a debate where I have signed up with priority rights: the first Minister of Health Blatný, but I assume that this has already been exhausted in the introductory words, the next is President Rakušan, Vice-President Okamura, President Jurečka, Member Výborný and Member Ondráček with the opinion of the KSČM club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And I'm going to ask you, and I'm going to ask you if you could take over the role of rapporteur on this point. You're the first in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u4	I knew this was gonna go bad. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the nice Christmas present you gave me, but even after the last time I dared to abuse my colleague's willingness, today I will take on this pleasant and sympathetic role. Vice-President, co-workers, colleagues. Minister, I have listened carefully to your opening words, and we actually agree in the description and the description of the situation. The fact that things aren't going well, the fact that numbers are rising, the fact that we have a swamped health system, the fact that poor paramedics, after all they've been through this year, don't have a nice Christmas and probably not have a nice New Year's Eve party, that's for sure true. But what we completely disagree about is whether the government, in addition to still asking us to extend the emergency situation over and over again, is doing enough to remedy matters effectively. I imagined that the Prime Minister would come here or you, Minister, and you would give us all such a Christmas present, and that you would tell us that the antigen testing of tests, which were simply not sufficiently available in many regions, would really get stronger. Telling us that the PES system will start working again, because what you transferred with the system is unprecedented. He fell apart under your hands, the system as if it didn't exist, and what you came up with, with the ambition that we're going to have some prediction of what's going to happen in the next few days and weeks, it doesn't work here at all. It's a mockery to all the experts who helped you put this system together. You will decide tomorrow as government on the fifth degree transition. Well, at that point, we can't even see if it corresponds really to any numbers. You don't follow your own terms, which you set, that's the time to analyze the data and make the right and best decisions for people. We're just waiting to see what happens after the government's decision. Where is the motivation of people to remain quarantined? And the motivation simply has to be, because if people in the Czech Republic do not remain quarantined and avoid it in every way, they will avoid going to testing because it means economic uncertainty to them, we will not get out of this problem. Why is the government still refusing to fully compensate the costs of people living in quarantine living in isolation? There's just no way out. We can motivate them through health insurance companies, insurance reliefs, etc., but the debate must be conducted professionally. Tell people before Christmas, before Christmas holidays, that the route will start to work again, that the smart quarantine will start working again, that you really have ambition for people in the Czech Republic to get information that they are positive, within 24 hours and during the weekend, because in that period they can be a potential risk to their surroundings. Where is the amendment to the crisis law that we called you here a month ago? We've had a few debates about this. Why isn't he here? Why do you go the easiest way of declaring and prolonging an emergency situation that has the right to touch the most basic constitutional rights of people in the Czech Republic? Forbid them to do what is simply necessary to forbid at this point. You've had enough time to discuss the new crisis law together. Again, he's not here. [[14.40 hours]] The vaccination strategy that Minister Blatný is talking about is alpha and omega. But where is the vaccination strategy, please? Where are the vaccination centers in the regions? Where are the instructions for the authorities and for the county health councillors to reduce vaccination in individual regions? It doesn't exist. We've got the most demanding logistics event in the last 30 years. And how do we approach that? Prime Minister Babiš himself becomes coordinator of vaccination in the Czech Republic. Don't you think that's funny? Panoptical? He can do anything, he's here himself, the experts don't believe, the ministry has failed, as he also said - I, the savior, the messiah, Andrej Babiš, will arrange for the vaccines to be delivered in time to be removed and used after thawing. propána, my God, how are we doing in this state? What special micro-meaning are we leading this state at a time of crisis? Prime Minister Babiš is supposed to find the best logistics expert, pay the team around him and introduce us to what the real vaccination strategy is and what it must contain. Who are we inoculating and when? Who's gonna vaccinate and where? If it's gonna be practical doctors, if it's gonna be vaccination centers, if it's gonna be in county hospitals. And if it's gonna be in county hospitals, who's gonna be inoculating in those county hospitals? Once again, Bavaria already has 2,500 doctors who are only reserved for vaccination. Do we have such a strategy in the Czech Republic? If so, why don't you come with her to the Chamber of Deputies and start the most important discussion about whether the Czech Republic will face what we live in now in the summer and next autumn? Constant closing, dislodgement, closing and dislodgement. People lose motivation to follow these measures if you only come up with the fact that you want to prolong the emergency, but do not come up with a solution. And you do not come up with a solution in the field of compensation for entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. I mean, these compensations are still incomplete. And we're gonna wake up here, thanks to your interference, in a world where the restaurants, the hairdressers, the services won't really exist. When singles can't buy gifts for vánoce, because you and their problem, even though we suggested it, refused to deal with systemically here in the House. Where's the solution? You describe the situation, Minister, nice and proper. You're asking for an extension of the emergency, but what are you bringing us? Where's the government plan you have for the next few months? Is the plan to come back in a month with a request to prolong the emergency? That's not a plan. You don't respect the PES system you created. You're making a decision out of him. You don't have a vaccination strategy, you don't compensate, and everything in this country will be run by Andrej Babiš. I'm afraid of it. I would really like experts in this country to manage the professional processes. And the government is ahead of a third failure. Spring failure with a lack of material, summer fall failure in the fact that Andrej Babiš did not trust experts and made PR decisions before regional and senate elections. And there's a third failure, just an unprepared vaccination strategy. Convince us, Minister Blatný, of the opposite. Tell us, and I have a doctor in my family, and I'm gonna argue with you for a long time that doctors just don't know who and how and when they're gonna vaccinate. Show me the list of vaccination centres in individual regions in the Czech Republic. Show them to us now, when you ask for an extension of the emergency. If you are asking us to restrict the constitutional rights of people in this country, please come up with a solution. Your government just failed. You didn't make people feel safe. You didn't give people the feeling that in a crisis their own state was able to take care of them. You didn't give people a vision that the government knows how to prioritize and deal only with what's really important in a crisis. You took hope from the people of our country. And I'm sure you won't give them that hope by prolonging their emergency by a month. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. And the next priority right will be given by Vice-President Okamura. Mr. KDU-ČSL Jurečka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, today the government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM this year for the sixth time, is asking the House to agree to extend the emergency situation for another 30 days due to the measures taken against the pandemic of coronavirus. The SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation and I will explain in detail why. The government had 79 days of emergency. Tests on Sunday revealed 3 364 positive cases of coronavirus in the Czech Republic, almost 1,400 more than last Sunday. It's the highest Sunday number in the last six weeks. The risk score of PES remains on the fourth day at 76 points, i.e. in the worst, fifth degree. You'd think it was awful. The more government restrictions, the more sick and more epidemics. Exactly the opposite of what it should be. I certainly don't want to, and I'm not gonna take the situation down, and I've never done it before. But luckily, we all know that the figures the government and the media state about the seriousness of the situation, they say nothing. The spread of the virus is perfectly natural. And as epidemiologist experts report, it is not dangerous for most populations. 83 percent of the population is not at risk and 17 percent of the population is at risk. The government should invest more in vulnerable groups, such as old or older people, such as chronically ill and so on, and should provide protection for them, which means respirators, disinfectants, vitamins and so on. And let the others live and work with basic measures. It is dangerous if the virus spreads massively among endangered groups. And what's crucial, very bad, is if we're growing the number of people that we could rank among the endangered. This number of endangered governments increases by restricting people's activities to increase their defence, and, on the contrary, by spreading scary, negative reports and restrictions increases the stress that is directly responsible for the decline in natural human immunity. Fortunately, despite the government, the opposite is happening. The numbers of really ill people are falling, and I hope that we can all agree that the positive test is not sick, and only the one who really gets sick is the one who has the temperature and really serious problems. According to Monday's numbers, Sunday was the sixth day in a row when the proportion of hospitalized people fell. On Sunday it was also the lowest since 25 October. In hospitals there were less than 4,400 patients with COVID-19, of which about 590 were in serious condition. And we don't even have to subtract patients who are sick with another serious disease and are just covid positive. And we see that for 10 million Czech citizens, we have less than 600 people in serious condition. If there are doctors among us, they will surely tell us how many people are really seriously ill in this country and are dying of really very serious and cruel diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular problems. At this point, they're tens of thousands of people. In the media, I noted quite distinctive comments from constitutional lawyers that the government had already exhausted the announcement of an emergency in October when the cabinet declared it for thirty days, as permitted by the law. According to an expert on the constitutional law of Jan Wintr, the current situation has not changed so radically that the government would be entitled to declare a new emergency. A bit more radical is the professor of constitutional law, Jan Kysela, who commented on the possibility of the government declaring a new emergency without the consent of the Members. According to him, it would be a clear abuse of constitutional security law, even if there was a downtime between two emergency states for several days. The key is that it recognises that the emergency situation - and I quote - can only be declared again for the same reason, and it has already happened twice this year because of the pandemic that it has to be truly justified. It would therefore have to be seen in the development of pandemics, for example, that there will be a sharp deterioration. If the situation is more or less constant, it would only be the government's attempt to sway the House. I would add another quite serious reason why we must no longer extend the emergency situation, why we must not allow the government to limit the freedoms of citizens and companies completely unnecessarily. It is not just that measures discriminate against certain fields of activity and that the cabinet does not accept sufficient compensation, financial compensation. It is also about the fact that restrictions increase tensions between people who want freedom or work and secure their families and their livelihoods, and those who, under the pretext of the case, want to suppress freedom hard. [[14.50 hours]] Benjamin Franklin, philosopher, constitutionalist, and one of the fathers of the founding fathers of the United States, wrote: "He who gives up freedom in the name of security deserves neither freedom nor security. " End of quote by Benjamin Franklin. It would be very easy to use this quote against the current restrictions and efforts of part of the media and politicians to limit citizens' freedoms. Personally, however, I completely understand the meaning of this appeal, which gives us all responsibility for our freedom. On the other hand, I completely reject the idea that one must earn freedom. Whether I like or dislike that someone is willing to enter slavery, I know that the duty of every responsible and decent person is to fight for the freedom of every individual without discipline, whether freedom is worthy or not. To this day, some politicians believe that democracy must be limited, because some people are not mature enough to rule themselves. This is not so much a political view because these politicians hold it. As we have seen in this House, parties like the pirát who went to the House with a direct democracy program, but as they sat in parliamentary benches, they became convinced that they were the chosen ones and that citizens did not deserve to make certain decisions even though they were once promised them. Of course, there is a much larger part of the House that shares the belief that citizens are unlegal, more precisely that they can only vote once every four years on which elites will rule for them. Freedom and democracy are or are not. It's either freedom and democracy or it's not. The current situation is really serious. Not only because bans prove to be unnecessary killing people who could live, but also because they kill freedom and kill the desire for freedom in people. I speak for example. About those patients who, due to delaying care for serious diseases, just don't get care, and under other circumstances, they would get care and they could go on living. It's about these serious diseases, like cancer, cardiovascular diseases, etc. And many frightened people would rather accept the cage they think will protect them from the killer virus. But that's a lie. The cage doesn't just protect them, it destroys those who don't want it. Epidemiologist experts are quite clear that 83 percent of our citizens are not at risk, but 17 percent are at risk in relation to coronavirus and they need to be protected. I agree with that. And let's let that 83 percent live and work on basic measures. Ladies and gentlemen, not only is this not a reason to prolong the emergency situation, because protecting those at risk must certainly be different than closing down a gym or pub, but there are many reasons to restore normal status to the general population as soon as possible. The SPD will therefore not support the extension of the emergency situation because it threatens freedom, democracy, the economy and the health of many citizens of our country. Today, the government is asking the House for permission to extend the emergency for another 30 days due to the measures taken against the pandemic of coronavirus. The emergency situation cannot still be prolonged because it is a condition where the fundamental mechanisms of parliamentary democracy and public control of the government's efficient management are limited. The state is actually in a situation where it changes under the pretext of combating pandemics in a corporation governed by a group of people with the right to restrict people's rights and to spend public funds without tenders. The government had sufficient time to come up with an amendment to health and crisis legislation to address these serious problems. Enough time to take targeted measures to address the protection of vulnerable groups and to unnecessarily restrict the country's economic and social system. It didn't happen. We are confronted with the fact that there is a danger of a long-term continuation of the emergency situation. Confusional measures and poor communication have seriously undermined citizens' trust. Today it is clear that freedom and democracy are also at risk in addition to the real health risk. Many people don't have money, many people find themselves in debt, many people are unable to secure their families and the state doesn't give them a hand. The attempt to make legitimate criticism of the government's progress to be responsible for the loss of lives is politically wrong, and another fall in trade and economic stability can seriously endanger the economy, including resources for health care and social services. Yes, if the economy shuts down, soon there won't be money for health and social services, or to protect those at risk. These are the reasons why they will not support the extension of the emergency situation in the House of the SPD. The SPD is refusing the so-called "SPD" movement. shutting down the economy. The government of the ANO movement, ČSSD, with the support of the KSČM, continues its restrictions in the policy of de facto liquidation of the national economy. The government in its Wednesday, i.e. tomorrow's meeting is most likely to tighten up the antiepidemic measures system, so-called. Dog, level five. This basically shuts down the Republic, except for the exceptions completely. The government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, continues these steps in the policy of de facto liquidation of the national economy and interprets the PES system in its own way. An example is the example of last week when the Republic was in the PES system at the third stage and preparing for the fourth stage, with most of the regions being on Friday 18 December at the level five with a total score of 76 points. Government resolutions within the meaning of individual measures are chaotic and contradictory. Here I would name what the SPD has criticized in the long run and finally the situation has settled a little bit, but after many weeks of criticism, when multinational hypermarkets, which taxes outside the Czech Republic could sell e.g. textiles, shoes and other goods, while Czech businessmen and Czech small and medium-sized entrepreneurs selling the same assortment had to be closed. This is a fatal damage to the Czech economy and Czech citizens. I don't understand why the government could have done this, how she could have even admitted this. But logically, in those small shops, the number of people above the sales area is much more controlled than in crowded hypermarkets, where it is proven that citizens were pushing for goods. These government measures, it was not only chaotic, as they contradicted themselves, they directly damaged, damaged a huge number of Czech citizens, tradesmen, small companies and their employees. That's a really delicious example of what's going on here, and it doesn't even make sense. That's not even a mistake anymore, that's an intention. That must've gotten everybody wrong. Yet the government kept it going for weeks. Another evidence, for example. The government's resolution at the beginning of last week, which the government once again modified after the public criticism and in which it limited the free movement of persons during the day, and thus, in theory, people could only buy basic needs. In other words, all the stores could have been open, but they were not allowed to go there. We refuse to take surface measures because it is obvious that they are not effective enough to stop the virus anyway. The solution is the amendment to the Public Health Act proposed by the SPD, which the government of YES, ČSSD, with the support of the KSČM, has long rejected. The government is preparing tomorrow to tighten up the belong and close various businesses and services. The legendary covido fighter, Mr. Exministr Prymula, said - quote: "Tightening will not help. People will not respect measures." End of quote. Thinking that during the holidays people will not meet, eat together, and drink together is really nonsense. The turn of the year is always the tip of the year when the number of respiratory diseases covid necovide usually peaks. What we should be thinking about right now is really a system of care for the sick, one that doesn't overwhelm hospitals. I mean, whoever isn't really at risk should be lying at home, but having affordable help in case of sudden change to worse, as it always was when she rescued us for example. flu epidemic. Indeed, people in particularly vulnerable groups should be more careful not to put themselves at risk of getting the flu or covid. That's something that's always been true. It's just that the covid is making it more obvious. In the past, we didn't deal with the flu deaths, and like ignoring other diseases, it wasn't right. But it's not right to panic and shut down healthy people, not say schools or restaurants for healthy people. In addition, the system should be set up to monitor really sick people and monitor the burden of health capacities. [[15.00 hours]] An epidemic is a moment when a significant part of the population gets sick, in the past it's always been in the order of a million and higher, here we see the difference. And it always had to be people really sick. And the measure should always have some logical basis. The prohibition of visits to a hospital or a home of seniors in serious cases has logic. Not allowed to sit on a ski lift is like a drugged workshop. Force people to sit at home instead of sports and strengthen their immunity, it really only deepens the crisis and increases the damage of both economic and health and social. I would also like to remind you that the government had a so-called past. an action plan on how to face similar diseases, as well as so-called. A pandemic plan. And none of the plans follow, but since spring, they've been inventing new and new and often senseless things. It turns out that the virus, like other viruses, spreads seasonally and curls regardless of whether schools like us were closed or, like in most of the world, open. And it turns out that the wave pattern is similar, whether there were total economic closures. It turns out that statistically the best Finland has never taken horizontal measures, but it has always been local. I heard some argument that there's a different weather. Well, I'm not gonna comment on that right now. By the way, it was Finland that did what the Czech Republic did in all the epidemics in the last 50 years. I'm thinking there's no cure. Well, that's the problem. Everyone's inventing what to close, but no one's looking for the drugs. Does that seem weird to you, too? And now I'd like to comment on the vaccination. In the opinion of the SPD, testing and vaccination must not be mandatory for our citizens. Testing, vaccination for covid. Covid. It must not be mandatory for our citizens, but on a voluntary basis. Civil rights must not be subject to testing and vaccination. While in the USA, the UK, Russia and China are already inoculating, we are still waiting in the conditions of the Czech Republic for approval of the vaccine by the EU institutions or the European Medicines Agency. The government YES, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, has overslept on this issue and there is no vaccination plan, strategy and vaccination center. Citizens also lack basic information on how long immunity acquired after the vaccine lasts and what are the side effects of each vaccine. At the same time, it is unacceptable for the SPD that citizens who freely choose to be vaccinated should not be able to choose what vaccine they may be vaccinated with. Testing and vaccination must not be mandatory for our citizens, but on a voluntary basis. If a person decides not to be vaccinated or tested, his constitutional rights must not be restricted. At the same time, we reject the EU's common vaccination card, as this will create two categories of people - vaccinated and not vaccinated. We are also convinced that this is a huge business for vaccine manufacturers and other necessary materials, which is also publicly referred to by the former Minister of Health and MEP SPD Ivan David, who has information directly from the European Union. And I would definitely like to point out when it comes to vaccinations so that you don't push us around here, SPD, some untruths, which is why I'm going to say it and I hope it sounds clear. I have nothing against vaccination as such, and we can certainly agree that various vaccinations have helped mankind fundamentally with various diseases. Nobody's questioning that. But it's important for the SPD to volunteer so that citizens can have the choice. And it is the task of the State and the Ministry of Health to explain to citizens clearly why they should be vaccinated and why they should not. And unfortunately, this is where we're stuck, as we know. The explanation from the Ministry doesn't really work. And in this, citizens learn that perhaps - Minister Havlíček suggested this in the interview last week - he who does not receive vaccination should make it possible for him to be disadvantaged, that he should be restricted to fundamental rights and freedoms compared to those who are being vaccinated and so on. That's unacceptable. This is the task of the state, it is the task of the Minister of Health and Government to explain to the ordinary citizen the reason why such a step is good and why it is not good for everyone to decide. A narrow group cannot decide the lives of ten million people. It's clearly a task of the state, and it just doesn't work here on the part of the government. Either way, I'm saying that volunteering is important to the SPD. Citizens must have a voluntary choice whether they don't want it or not, and the SPD will definitely push forward for the future, and we cannot force anyone to take such serious steps that concern their health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, too. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will take the floor with priority right and will prepare Mr. Výborný, and then Prime Jurečka Andrej Babiš will take the floor with priority right, and the last one with priority right I have is Mr. Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues, there is an important point at the end of this year just before Christmas. And I must say that extending an emergency is a point that a small part of the citizens of the Czech Republic are watching with great attention. Yes, there are people who are watching this with attention because they are among the endangered risk groups. People who have reduced immunity and feel threatened, and it is important for them what measures the government is implementing, apply to protect their lives. I have to say for KDU-ČSL, she's always been, she's always been, and she's gonna protect people's lives. We take this very seriously, which is why we said in advance that we would not put ourselves in the role of the opposition, which rejected it without wanting to know any deeper debate about the parameters. On the other hand, on the one hand, when we talk about people's lives, we also need to talk about the livelihood of those people, because these things are also very closely related. Not only to me, but I assume that most of the Members and Members here, including the members of the government, describe their stories that they encounter. People who have spent 30 years of their lives, sometimes less, but many of them have practically devoted themselves since the revolution to building a dream, building their business, their business, their activities, into which they have put everything. They put in savings, effort, energy, and in a huge way it fills them and fills them. And this year, they are in an extremely difficult situation where they are closed for the second time because of government measures. In some way, a lot of them said about the first wave, we get it, we have some savings here, we get through it, we don't let people go, we keep our employees. And now in the other wave, these people are coming and they're really desperate and they're saying we don't have any savings anymore. We're having trouble paying our severance payments to those employees we're gonna have to fire. And many of them say, we know that at the end of the year we will close down and maybe end our business after 25, 30 years and we will look for another way to support ourselves, our wives, our children, our partners, our partners. And here I have a big appeal to the Minister, who, I understand from his speech, even this dimension of the measures he perceives, and a big appeal to the Prime Minister, who just arrived. And we, as KDU-ČSL, are really calling for this and we have made some concrete proposals here, and we want to keep doing it. Please, change the level of support for those people who are either completely shut down by government regulations, or in a fundamental way, their business is limited and they have lost much of their income. Inspire yourself with the models in Germany or Austria. Last week, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček's words about 100% compensation for those who will now be locked up fell out of his mouth. But really, a compensation bonus of 15 grand could not be enough for these people to take away social and health benefits, which is practically pure about CZK 10,000. I call on you both members of the government who are here, Prime Minister and Minister, now, try to experience January for 10,000 crowns pure, bring it home to your wives, families and say, this is the only income now. We're gonna pay the electricity, the backup, we're gonna pay the gas and heat deposit, and we're gonna have seven, six grand left, and now we're gonna live here in Průhonice. Now I don't mean it ironically, now I mean it to illustrate how tens of thousands of these people need to be understood in what situations they have found themselves in. Those people have never stood with their hands stretched out to want something from the state, but now they really get into an extremely difficult situation where government measures that even those with some good will try to perceive and understand their need, but they get into an unsolvable riddle of potential debt traps, loss of roof over their heads, loss of their homes, their apartments, etc. So please nicely, increase the compensation to at least CZK 20,000. I appreciate what happened last week, that at least the basic thing we've been calling for here for two months has been made possible, and that's the mix of these different types of support for businessmen. At first it could not, then it was rejected for reasons rather political and eventually it succeeded. Thanks for that. But last week, the Treasury Secretary sat here and told me when I was appealing to the illogicality that part of the tradesmen who had had some setbacks in the past, but they're going through a proper debt relief process, they're not entitled to a compensatory bonus today. [[15.10 hours]] Prime Minister, please take a good look at this matter, because many people have put you in a completely fatal situation. The Minister here last week claimed that this was due to the fact that this condition was imposed on the European Commission in the notification of the compensatory bonus. I asked the Minister a week ago to send me the document with the European Commission's argument. I didn't get anything to this day. I do not believe that this argument has been made by the European Commission. And if so, I am prepared to appeal within the European People's Party to the President of the European Commission to abolish such a condition. But please, nicely, make a step for these people as Prime Minister that this senseless condition will be unlocked. So that the people in debt who lost the government's decision to pay the debt and bring some money home so that they could even exist and work. And then I have a big request for faster administration. Standardly, if an entrepreneur does not pay to the State, to the Financial Authority, to the Public Health Insurance Corporation or to the Social Security Administration or to the Customs Administration pre-established contributions, none of these institutions deletes it. And here we have people who haven't received a compensation bonus for a month, a month and a half. [[A silence. The Prime Minister is speaking to the Minister of Health on the stand.]] I'm sorry, Prime Minister, because these are things that even people interpret towards you through us here in the House, so I'd like you to be able to see at least the moment I speak here. And you know I don't talk long. So I'd like to ask you to change these things and ask for it. And then I have one more thing in particular for the Minister of Health. If you tighten up the conditions from 25 December at tomorrow's government meeting, you will put many parishes in the Czech Republic and many believers in this situation. Because the parishes have now run into the e-booking system at Holy Mass, and they've got the reservation system running this whole week until Sunday. I beg you from this place, the Government of the Czech Republic, if you would do this tightening, which would possibly also involve worship, except that it will not be valid until Monday next week. 'Cause I can't imagine that parish administrator saying, "You guys signed up from Thursday to Sunday, who I'm gonna cross out here who's not going to the Holy Mass." We lost Easter. We understand it as religious people, but we don't want to miss Christmas holidays that way. And I'll fill in one parallel. Let's look at the conditions that are in the chains when shopping. And let's look at the conditions that apply in churches. It's completely inadequate from the point of view of the parameters. I'd beg if those terms could apply the same to everyone. Let me give you a specific example. I'm five kids. We'll meet at my parents' for the third or second holiday, over 30 people will be at their lunch. If we come to our church and the conditions are tight, then who in our family isn't going to go, even if we all meet at lunch? So I'm practically trying to show what the consequences are, and I'm asking you from this place to take this into account as a government. We will propose under KDU-ČSL if one of the members of the government says that the government is ready to increase the compensatory conditions for entrepreneurs, so extend the emergency until 8 January at the most. And we are prepared to support this, if the government is clear here that the government takes the situation of entrepreneurs seriously and is prepared to increase compensation to at least CZK 20,000. And I think it's crucial. Prime Minister, there is not only one goal to protect lives, but the government must protect the lives and livelihoods of people in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u9	Thank you, Mr. Jurečka. Now Mr. Výborný on behalf of the club president. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to follow up on President Jurečka. And I am glad that Minister Blatný not only presented and reasoned here, or tried to justify the request for an extension of the emergency situation. I also appreciate the fact that he regularly participates in the interview and is willing to discuss with us as one of the few members of the government here. But prolonging the emergency isn't just any ordinary thing. It's a matter of fundamental importance. It is a situation where we restrict fundamental human rights and freedoms, when we place very significant powers in the hands of the government, very significant competences that the government can actually interfere with the life of one citizen of the Czech Republic. And ladies and gentlemen, I ask, where is the chairman of the Central Crisis Staff? Prime Minister, where's your vice-premiere, your coalition partner? After all, he, by the way, is also responsible for the fact that we do not have an amendment to the crisis legislation here to this day, where is it at this time that you, as Prime Minister and Minister of Health, are asking the House to extend the emergency situation? Those are the things I, I'm sorry, I really don't understand. At the same time, I want to say that we have repeatedly over the past nine or ten months, and now I speak not only for KDU-ČSL, but also for other opposition parties, including ODS and TOP 09, have repeatedly shown a very helpful and constructive approach. If you looked at the history of 30 years of democratic Czech Republic, Czechoslovakia for those two years, you would find it difficult to look for situations where the opposition, whatever it was, would be in this way to meet the government, whether at a speed of debate in a state of legislative emergency, or finally by presenting clear constructive proposals which, and in principle, we cannot be angry about that, which the government has often repeatedly taken over, because these were proposals that helped the citizens of the Czech Republic, who were coming forward in compensation for our tradesmen, traders. Some of these measures would be worth prolonging, even at the moment, when the Czech Republic is fighting the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. KDU-ČSL together with ODS and TOP 09 created a professional AntiCovid team about two months ago, which regularly acts every week. It includes experts, doctors not only from Members, but also from other invited experts. And we regularly present our proposals to Minister Blatný not only at the press conference every week, but also by personal letters to Minister Blatný. We are trying to formulate what we think is important and crucial and where we believe that the government is not doing enough forcefully, quickly enough so that we can prevent some steps, so that we can deal with pandemics as quickly as possible. We are in this situation where the government repeatedly comes in with a request for an extension of the emergency as such, and let's face it, in its own way, is a crutch that is supposed to allow some measures to be implemented. And I don't want to question the need for an emergency right now. If we really are in the fifth stage of the PES system, then the government must actually come up with this request objectively. But what is important is that this request should be clearly justified so that the government can answer some questions and implement some measures towards our entrepreneurs, businessmen or also towards the citizens of the Czech Republic. Because it is quite obvious at this point, and I think we are absolutely in agreement on that, Minister, that what can help at this time of vaccination is a question of access to vaccination, of the vaccination strategy, and I am afraid, unfortunately, that, in my view, a truly senseless and awkward debate about who will be the agent and who will be the head of the vaccine. If that's what you're gonna do, Prime Minister, I'm sorry, you personally and if you're gonna buy syringes etc. I'm sorry, I'm making it a little easier. But the situation is really serious. I think if we have a really competent health minister here, he's supposed to have these things in full. [[15.20 hours]] I just hope that today's issue of the Mladá fronta tonight, which belongs to the entire Agrofert Group and the ANO movement, should not just suggest a footnote to some changes to the position of Minister of Health. Because it wouldn't really be for the benefit of fighting COVID-19. But I want to get back to the point, because that would be a completely different debate, and I was wondering how far we could go down in the form of these building pieces and the front pages that sometimes fall out of our mailbox. But to the matter itself. We, as an anticovian team, as I said, from the representatives of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 prepared a Christmas challenge. The Christmas challenge has seven points. At the same time, colleagues, we want to put forward a resolution accompanying the vote on the emergency situation and ask for your support, because it is a challenge towards the government with which we believe that each of the Members must identify. So let me introduce to you this Christmas challenge, which is motivated by the fact that we are aware that the situation is really getting worse and that some things are now a matter of priority - and I will say national - interest. And that is precisely the first thing that concerns vaccination, where we believe that a truly strategic clear plan needs to be prepared. So I will allow myself, so that I do not have to introduce this resolution again, to introduce you to the first point: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to present an elaborate strategic vaccination plan without delay, including an information campaign, not only for the individual priority groups. This plan must necessarily contain the precise organisational form of vaccination, the necessary IT provision, including the involvement of the municipal sphere with the necessary administrative support. We see vaccination as a matter of priority national interest. However, successful management of vaccination makes it conditional on the involvement of broad structures of society." So that's the first point that appeals to vaccination as the way to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The second point is the impact of pandemics on businessmen and entrepreneurs. Finally, you as a government announced last week by Mr. Vice Prime Minister that you are ready to provide 100% compensation, 100% compensation to the owners of guesthouses, hotels, restaurants, so that the damage that is objectively caused to them by having their operations closed or closed so that they can be replaced. We therefore come up with this point: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to present without delay, in view of the fatal effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on businessmen and businessmen, the form of drawing up announced 100% compensation for closed businesses in the context of trade and services.' The third point concerns what President Jurečka has already been talking about, and this is an increase in the compensation bonus in the situation of prolonged emergency. I believe there is no other way. "The Chamber of Deputies therefore calls on the Government to prepare an increase in the compensation bonus from CZK 15 to CZK 20,000 by 4 January 2021 at the latest, with effect from 1 January 2021, with the possibility to draw on the entrepreneur who is in insolvency and is not entitled to any direct assistance from the State. At the same time, we call on the Government to prepare as soon as possible the legal form of remission of the contributions of the CFI and to renew the Antivirus C programme, at least for the first quarter of 2021." This is one of the most effective aids to our entrepreneurs. The fourth thing, and it's very important, is the speed of help. Here it really applies, who gives quickly, twice gives, and when we look at the administrative complexity and the rampant bureaucracy in individual programs, it does not really act as something that would give confidence that the government really wants to help and that it really wants to deal with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. We therefore propose this resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to adjust the existing system of support for entrepreneurs so that their actual drawing and payment can be made within a maximum period of 15 days from receipt of the request to the competent authority. At the same time, we call on the Government to reduce the administrative burden on the use of individual aid to the level of use of the declaration of honour and the data box for the identification of the applicant. In order to verify the validity of the applications, the state administration subsequently used data that entrepreneurs regularly provide to the relevant state institutions, in particular the financial authorities or the Czech Social Security Administration, and did not burden the applicant with unnecessary administration." The next point of our Christmas call concerns primarily the Minister of the Interior, because if the Minister of the Interior had promised what he had said here in July, that means that by September at the latest, the government would have submitted an amendment to the House of Crisis Legislation, that is, a constitutional law on state security and a follow-up crisis law, so we might have been spared this repeated session in the context of extending the emergency situation. The bill is discussed within the parliamentary clubs, it is here in the House, and I do not understand why your government will not negotiate the law and do not submit the amendments so that we can actually use them at this time of the COVID-19 pandemic. What are we waiting for? After we've dealt with everything? It really is the crisis legislation for this situation that will be useless. - That is why we clearly call on the Government and the Minister of the Interior to present to the House, as early as September, the promised amendment to crisis legislation, which would clearly regulate the rules of emergency and crisis management. The sixth point, which is also crucial and concerns Minister Blatný and concerns how the PES score is determined, because there is a bit of chaos in this, let's face it. These statements are different, either from the Minister or from his Deputys and subordinates, and it would be good to make it clear here, in this sense, from what data and by which system this score is calculated. - That is why we would like to propose this resolution, when the Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Health to clarify and publish the current parameters and criteria according to which the PES score is set, especially with regard to various forms of testing and other selected aspects. And one last thing, I've already implied it here. If we are to build public confidence in government action, if we are to strengthen confidence in the fact that vaccination is really the way to help deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, then the government's actions must be clear, credible, understandable and cannot really move at a level of sometimes even panoptics. In that sense, Prime Minister, let's really abandon the idea of Ferda Mravenec - all kinds of work and leave those things, as you often say, to the experts. It is not enough to say this, it is also necessary to take these steps, and we therefore dare to propose the last, seventh point in the context of the Christmas call: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to respect the views of the Minister of Health and to devote himself to government governance as a whole. Leave the vaccination strategy to the experts. It is only by doing so that you will contribute to increasing the already shaken trust of citizens in this key factor of managing the whole pandemic." This is therefore seven points of the KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09 Christmas call, which we present as an accompanying resolution on this point. Thank you for your support, because those points are a clear message that the government is aware of the situation in which the Czech Republic is in, wants to help, wants to help quickly, effectively and wants to strengthen confidence in the actions of governments and politicians. That's what we have to do. If we really want to deal with the difficult situation we're in, this is what you, Prime Minister, often stress - that we should pull together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u11	Thank you, Mr Excellent. The words will now be taken by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Andrej Babiš. Zdeněk Ondráček will be ready with the opinion of the club KSČM. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u12	Hello again. Thank you for the opportunity to get off here. I waited here for three and a half hours this morning. I was paired up, so my job was supposed to be outside the House, and I can see that nothing has changed since Thursday, actually. The worst experience of my political career. I hope you, Mr. Jurečka, and your colleague are watching "čau, guys" on Sunday. That's where I defined hypocrisy for you. You guys are so trained. That's the... My colleague Ferjenčík here today told me that I was wrong about my profession because he thinks I'm a politician. Well, I'm not a politician. I'm a politician, but I don't know politics. I can't. I can't be a hypocrite. [[15.30 hours]] And what are you calling for here? Who are you challenging? You voted against 10 billion for businessmen, restaurants and hotels! Why do you say that when you're doing the opposite, colleague? Ten billion we've decided. And you voted against the budget. Against the budget! So that's the hypocrisy of saying, let's give the businessmen, give the entrepreneurs. You say that, and you do the opposite! You should have supported the budget. So you do everything against them. And your little talk here, no one's taking it seriously. You don't even mean it. You're here to train me about what, colleague? [[Members of the KDU-ČSL.]] Who's the expert on what? What's a vaccination operation? Do you know what a vaccination operation is? You don't know! Because you've never driven anything in your life! [[Fun in the hall. Messenger's reaction. Jureky.]] What were you driving? Like you were a minister? The D.O.D. goes without you. I've done something in my life. And from the moment I entered the vaccination, we now have a new increase in the vaccine from Pfizer - 50,000 new ones for January. And 26. On the 12th morning, 27 cars will arrive in all EU Member States. Each car will have two boxes. It's 9,750 vaccines. And we'll take the boxes to Prague, then Brno. And two boxes will reach Germany, Mr. Colleague. And we're gonna get another amount... [[Nesroz.]] So please don't teach me what an expert is and what an expert is. I really don't know. Inoculation is a logistical operation, if you don't know it. Logistical operations. Very sophisticated operation. And you're still challenging us here, but we're doing it. I understand that there's a microphone and there's cameras and people feel like the government's actually doing nothing because you're the best at it. So you perform here, the businessmen, and that's all touching, but in real life, you do everything against it. All against it! Why didn't you vote for the businessmen, the budget? Why didn't you vote? And what I'm saying is true. You do everything against people because you do it against the government. And you didn't approve the budget! [[Laughs of KDU-ČSL Members.]] Laugh. I'm fine. So I'm actually enjoying you guys talking about 30 years of democracy. So, your challenges, yes. Imagine I handled Linec. I called Frolík. We found out that we have 1960 beds in the state's material reserves. It's such a coincidence, isn't it? I've dealt with those New Zealand oxygenators, too. That's a normal business case. I like it, I've studied it, and unlike you, I've run 35,000 people and hundreds of companies. So I'm an expert in driving. And the fact that journalists, when I said with exaggeration that I was some kind of-- I'm not an agent. I'm the Prime Minister who runs it. Yeah? And I'm driving it, and I'm driving it, because if it doesn't work, it's Babiš again, isn't it? That's it. That's what you keep saying - Babiš, Babiš, Babiš. You're constantly criticizing us. First you criticized, we don't have laboratory capacity, PCR tests. We have 52 grand. Then you said we don't know antigens. Now you're saying we don't have Germany. So when I was sitting here this morning, I wasn't wondering what was going on here. And I loved it. And you know why? Here, the biggest traditional democratic parties were arguing, which had some programs and which once had an opposition treaty. They had programs they didn't implement. And do you know who made them happen? Well, thanks to the YES movement! Thanks to the ANO movement, programs are being implemented, in government or in the House. So we've always said that we're a catch-all-party, that we're neither left nor right, that we're here for everyone, for all people. So I don't even want to comment on the morning I've been here... There was a right-wing clash here. Right-handed clash. Well, we're for everyone, and it's been confirmed today, and I'm so glad you approved my proposal. My proposal to raise salaries for all employees. All of them. Seven percent. And not to raise taxes to businessmen and to oblige employers that we simply do it for them, and there were so many debt experts here, to the deficit, they just forgot that together, they cut the debt for 1 090 billion. And if anyone was talking about Germany, we have a 100 percent less debt than Germany. I've said it a hundred times, but I understand that's the way it is for you. You have it, and you'll repeat a hundred different lies, and that's it. This is where an economist was remembered this morning. Well, I wonder when she'll be running for a side. I'm sure it'll turn out that way. Most of these experts who are guaranteed to act against the government, that's the end of it. So I'd like to say about the situation. The situation isn't good. Hospitals are starting to come true. Yesterday we had an increase of 350 hospitalized people, and simply tomorrow the government will decide mainly in order to protect the lives of our fellow citizens. That's our priority target. And, of course, we see the problems that businessmen have. And we're doing something for them. You're talking about it. And if you have the opportunity to support it, you won't support it. So then it's like unsolvable. So I'm sorry. Of course, we are doing our best to implement vaccinations. We ordered 11 901 700 vaccines - this for Czech TV, reported two million in the morning. For 6 953 849 Czech citizens of the Czech Republic we ordered. So there's still numbers coming in. These are the right numbers. We ordered five vaccines. Each has different characteristics, different logistics. So we do everything. And, of course, we make the recommendations you give us, we make them. If we find something interesting there, of course, we do it, but mostly we have to sit here and the minister instead of - now he's leaving to be at work, so he has to sit here. And anybody doubt we need to prolong the emergency? I don't think anyone doubts that. So I don't know how we're supposed to explain that there's a risk again that the numbers of hospitalized people are rising, that it's a problem, but it's probably hard to explain, because it's an opportunity for you to actually present here again that the government is doing something wrong. When we closed, it was wrong. When we didn't relax, it was wrong. And it's still wrong. We're still doing everything wrong. But I repeat, if you're acting so touchingly here and wishing so much for those entrepreneurs, why are you voting against them? Why did you vote against the budget? This is where you should have said it on the microphone. Say: We say something, but we always do everything backwards, against. That's the hypocrisy, huh? So it's all over again. And I don't even know if Mr. Výborný believes what he's saying, the other things. They don't believe it. And you say you're offering a hand. You're not offering. Every time we had conversations with you, when we presented something to you, you always used it against us. So that's it. And, of course, I think the minister was definitely here to lecture on why we need an extension of the emergency situation, that we need our army to help in hospitals to help in social services homes, that this vaccination operation is going to be extremely difficult. And if you don't understand, I'm sorry. So all I can say is, for the first time, since you haven't extended the emergency situation so many times, you've always been against it, and I don't know why, I don't know why, so you do it this time. And we're asking you to. And again, it's important. It's important if you don't want there to be chaos and the lives of our citizens at risk. So, of course, I thank you for that, because, at least I hope you accept it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u13	I thank Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for his speech. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček, will present himself with the priority right of Marian Jurečka. Yes, it'll be the second performance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to speak after the Prime Minister because I am always interested in hearing what he is going to say. Sometimes when I'm dreaming, I'm basically reminding myself that the Prime Minister barged in here with a hit-and-run bomb, tossed them here, did a pretty quick procedure here, and then it's up to us to do it some way. These statements are always emotional, and they are true in many ways, but they may reflect what the Prime Minister often says that he sees as a person, not a politician. And sometimes you have to be very considerate about what you say. But I have to say, I enjoy your speeches, I always laugh under that drape. So even today, thank you for making it so beautifully upset. Basically, I'm just going to take the liberty of reacting to some of my previous speakers, and then I'm going to take our stand. I here from my colleagues, apart from the representatives of KDU-ČSL, who said that under certain conditions they agreed to extend the emergency situation, and set some date and, if necessary, conditions, so it is the only essentially constructive one where they say yes could, if it were. The economic effects were mentioned. And I can tell my colleagues from KDU-ČSL that I agree with some of these proposals. I can also imagine the compensations that should be, and these are things that we have been dealing with in recent weeks with both the Minister of Health and possibly. at the Central Crisis Staff. I could imagine a compensation of 80 percent of proven sales in 2019, which were already based on an EET or an EET. other identifiable items concerning the need for a tax return. But those are things that are economic, and I'll leave them to the experts. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Health, who is not present at the moment, but he will get it on his ear that we are currently receiving all the required information from the Ministry of Health, but also from the Central Crisis Staff, and as a KSČM party, we have all the necessary information and data available to both officials and government politicians. And I think that colleagues who are in the Central Crisis Staff also have them, which means at least a representative of the KDU-ČSL and the SPD movement. How vaccination will take place in this Republic, and if a strategy has already been established, it is discussed within the Central Crisis Staff, but I do not think that this is something that we will agree here in the Chamber of Deputies, because the strategy is in the power of the executive, which is the government of the Czech Republic and the individual ministry. This means that we can take that information into account, but let us not take any authority that does not belong to us as Members and to the powers of the legislature. I am sorry that colleagues from the SPD have mentioned, through their President, or have said that they do not intend to prolong the emergency situation. I would like to ask the Vice-President Okamura, who, unfortunately, is not present, but perhaps someone from the SPD will answer me, how would the SPD deal with this? How would it solve the problems that are - I'll specifically talk about some of them and maybe with you... how would the SPD solve it? The fact that you just don't support it is, of course, your rhetoric here, but I would also like to hear how you would do it. Because that's what I'd like to hear from everyone who's talking about it. I am glad that the company knows that thanks to the SPD movement we have open and retail and that the SPD movement has basically ensured everything. I don't quite share it, and I don't think because it wasn't just the SPD, and I've talked about it here several times at this speaking desk when we were discussing an extension of the emergency situation. But so be it, we've already gotten used to what's going to happen, basically repeating the SPD three times, and it's basically their thing that they pushed through. A rather big thing here has been given vaccinations. I either didn't sit in this House, or I don't understand, but we have adopted a law that clearly states that vaccination is based on volunteering. Why are we always here in front of these microphones and maybe in the media saying that we're refusing permanent vaccinations or mandatory vaccinations? I think it's enough to go back to the House press, some of you in charge, and you can repeat it as it's written. But the emphasis was that vaccination was voluntary. So why do we keep talking about vaccination obligations and not being vaccinated, becoming a second-class citizen? I don't get it. So either I can't read the laws we approve here, or you can't read them. But it's intent, I guess it's meant to be. You know, when I was supposed to decide what position I was going to give my colleagues from the KSČM club, I made it clear to myself that the reasons for assessing the emergency extension request could basically be divided into five criteria. Health criteria, criteria legal, economic, social and then, of course, political. I do not want to discuss the health reasons for examining the application more or less because the Minister of Health has taken them apart very well, who certainly has more qualified people than I do. And the data they're sending us, which we're getting from the members of the Central Crisis Staff, and we can give it to our political parties who nominated us there, allows us to work with those numbers. However, according to available numbers, I can see that one of the most vulnerable groups is those over 65 years of age, where there are some 15, 16 percent. And, of course, persons chronically ill. But I'm saying again, I don't want to get on the plane of health. I also mentioned the economic plane. The economic impact, and here I agree with my colleagues from most political parties, that the impact on the economy is drastic. But let's just say, it can always get worse. I agree that the government has not closed retail shops and left most of the services in operation following the comments made during the transition to the fourth stage of the PES antiepidemic system. That is what we have said here across the political spectrum, and I repeat again, it was not only because of the speech of the SPD movement, but that is what we have spoken here by representatives of most political parties. And it does not bother me at all that in this case an exception was granted in the fourth degree and in the fourth stage these transactions remained closed. Because on the contrary, it was very good, because if large chains were able to adapt quickly and offer a whole range of materials, then citizens from smaller cities where they do not have supermarkets or even. from the villages, they had to go to the big city and the concentration of people occurred much more often. Now, basically, the most important solution to the winter season. Winter season and how it's going to go down. The Minister mentioned, in turn, what measures are being taken in neighbouring countries, Austria, Germany, which means the Alps, Switzerland. The winter resorts opened on Friday the 18th. Skiing over the weekend. Such skiing not skiing, but skiing because natural snow is minimal. With the fact that, say, even according to the information I have directly from the field, I live four kilometers from the nearest lift, so on the spot, the measures recommended are not respected at all. The situation there has been agreed with the Mountain Centres Association, and so far it is going on without a problem. [[15.50 hours]] The question is, how will it be after a possible transition to the fifth degree "dog." Here I would like to ask whether such a situation will occur for the government and the Ministry of Health to consider whether, in the event of the transition after the start of the new year, if they should only attend the schools in the first and second years, or if I would intercede for it to be the first degree, that is, to be the fifth grade, so that they are children who, if they stay at home, their parents must draw on them by the infirmary. This is why we would partially spare people who wouldn't stay home, we wouldn't have to pay sick leave to these parents. We would not miss these parents both in business or in industry, but also in health and social services, where we need them. But these are the things we're prepared to do in case the government is interested in acting at any time. This would also reduce the impact on the economy. I also agree that the adjustment of compensation should be more flexible. In addition to the two reasons mentioned, there is a social reason. These are probably the reasons and the impacts that fellow citizens are most perceived by. Visits to relatives, hospitals, social facilities, the impossibility of the usual association, weddings, funerals, as well as the mentioned services. We are a nation of pubs where it is most likely to come to light, where with certainty bordering on reality you will learn the guaranteed truth about all events in our country and in the world. The government is failing here, and its media advisors are literally losing. I prefer not to say anything about the role of the media in this area, because it is rather, let's say, negative. This social area is very important and it will also be very important right now, during the Christmas season and the 2020 transition to 2021. The political reasons that are, these must be evaluated by each political entity itself, whether it is good to look populist and say, at all costs, to relax, to relax, to have no reason for an emergency, to address its constituents, or to act rationally, let's say pragmatically, and to judge any other impact that they are. And the other effects, and I would stop at them more, are the effects of legal. Legal reasons to have or not to have an emergency. So it's a pro or con decision. Against that, many of these regulations can be ordered or banned under the Public Health Act. These areas, which can be limited under this law, can be found in § 69 para. 1 of the Law. These measures are being implemented, but let's say many of them are controversial and at the very edge of the interpretation of the law. Of course, a lot depends on the qualified reasoning, which was also said by the Municipal Court in Prague this spring. In the event of their assault, the court would have to make a final decision on them again. At random, I'm going to impose a ban on joint singing, I think it's for ten or more people, or a lot discussed is a restriction on the operation of services, such as hairdressing, pedicures, cosmetics that we witnessed in the fourth degree, so not yet. Legal discussions could also be about separations and square meters per buyer. In addition, there are measures that cannot be implemented without a declared emergency situation. Such measures, i.e. emergency situations, such measures are the restriction of the free movement of persons or the possibility of ordering a work obligation for students. Let's stop by the students 'cause no one's talked about it here. Information in numbers. In the month of October, a respected SPD colleague, or from other parties that you are in favour of immediate cancellation of the emergency situation, worked carefully - in the month of October, nearly 1,400 students, medics, paramedics, nurses worked in health care. In the month of November, the number was similar. Another 600 students worked in social services. Cirka 2,000 students worked in health and social services. Do you think they were extra? That they're useless? Or how could you cover these places so that those workers who work permanently in these positions couldn't just be there because they were quarantined themselves, they were sick, or they had to take care of their children in the care of them? I would really like to hear how you can replace 2,000 people in health and social services. If you answer that question, I'll remove the hat from you if you can, if you can justify it. I could also document the locations and numbers of deployed soldiers. It was mentioned here, but I'm just going to say the total number, because it's probably not important. The total number of deployed members of the army of the Czech Republic was as of 15. 12. 2020 - and listen to me again - 2 085. Can you replace the places where 2,085 members of the army of the Czech Republic worked by someone else? Is there any other way you can do that than by crisis law? If you can do that, tell us, and we'll be very grateful. I'd love to hear it from you, and I'd like to know. I couldn't find another legal option. If you can do it, please tell us and don't tell us it's nonsense and we don't need an emergency. We need this, in particular, for this reason. I'm gonna ask you why these people worked there. Why were the 2,000 students, 2,000 soldiers working? I'll repeat again - because the staff was missing. And where medical and social services personnel were missing, are these places we can afford to close? Is it the authorities, or are there people who need that care? Are there patients there? Are there clients of social services who are often unable to take care of themselves? You're gonna let them down? Don't you care how these people end up? Not to me. For me, people's lives and health come first. I'll keep the politics till the other level. So without them, the individual devices just couldn't handle it, and we know that these devices can't be closed. I hope even the biggest critic of the emergency situation understands that. If not, I can only bend my shoulders. The situation is a little different at the moment. The number of hospitalized fell by about half, although slowly growing again. Kids, well, if you want, more like students, medical students, paramedics and medics. Basically, the last time the ordering of work was over, I think, last week, because the current situation is that both health and social services can handle it with their own strength. So far with this number of people. But will it last for weeks and months? Soldiers are being deployed all the time and I wouldn't be surprised if the soldiers were called in quite quickly to carry out the tasks of the Police of the Czech Republic. Police of the Czech Republic, according to the requirements of the Ministry of Health from Monday's Central Crisis Staff, will deploy, or maybe from today, another 150 members on other so-called tracking, 150 members a day. Police of the Czech Republic currently, I do not want to say guard, but monitors arrival in the Czech Republic of foreigners who come here for example by skiing to our Krkonoše Mountains, if they have confirmation of infection. The police of the Czech Republic carry out a number of tasks that are put on it and carry them out with the strain of all the forces that they are, because even the police suffer under the base of 3,500 people plus, of course, the contagion, or the quarantine in their police corps. [[16.00 hours]] Important, however, less known, or completely neglected by the media, is the determination of the rules for the key infrastructure bodies of the State that are necessary and their non-necessary suppliers. That's one of the reasons why there must be an emergency. This breach could lead to a threat to state security in the field of energy, food or fuel supply. Can you imagine who you are from the Hradec Králové or Pardubice Region, that would be closed due to the contagion of workers who work at the Opatovic Power Plant, which supplies 100 thousand Hradec Králové, Pardubice, possibly Chrudim? Can you imagine if 200, 300,000 people were without hot water and without heat? These are the key infrastructure workers of the state that you don't know about, who are working at number one, they've never been thanked. They work as their management calls them, and it gives us heat, hot water, light, and water normal. These are people from the so-called key infrastructure of the state. And they also need the emergency in some cases for their activities. During the weekend I spoke with representatives of ČEZ or ČEPRO. I've been told that they're handling it now, but it's all about volunteering and the willingness of their workers. Volunteers and willingness. Are you aware of the lovely wrap-up? The labor code suffers a little, we know that. But those people know what kind of work they do for society, even though they know we'll never thank them for it, but they do it on the basis of volunteering and willingness. However, in the event of further deterioration and deployment of these key infrastructure workers, this would not be possible again without an emergency. I would like to inform you that the number of infected people has been growing again for several days, and foreign countries are seeing new and even more aggressive forms of covid. And I would like to ask for separate attention in the state's material reserves. Administration of state material reserves. There, without emergency conditions, they cannot buy protective work equipment and other materials. Current, and it mentioned vaccinations, current government purchases are syringes and needles for the voluntary - voluntary, SPD colleagues - vaccinations that should start around 20 January. I'm now aware after yesterday's meeting of the Central Crisis Staff that the shopping is going on. Basically, contracts will be signed within a few days and 4 million syringes and 4 million needles should start to be carried out. Do you know how this would work without an emergency? You know Act 137 on Public Procurement, and you know how long such a single contract lasts? Do you know that it was us here, a group of Members who submitted an amendment to the Public Procurement Act in the summer, and we asked not only the government, but also you here for the inclusion of this point in order to allow the Administration of State Material Reserves during and after the crisis to be able to purchase without the Public Procurement Act for six months? Where did the law end? Where did the law end? There's three hundred unnegotiated prints in this dam. You want to get to a stage where we don't have anything to buy because it won't allow legislation? Are you aware that, in the event of an emergency, all the assets lent to the Treasury would have to be returned to the Treasury? Like the pulmonary ventilators, but also the hospital beds in the field hospitals? Yes, it's not used yet. But you know that? These are legal reasons, colleagues and colleagues. Legal reasons that led me to ask my KSČM colleagues to comply with the government this time and extend the emergency by 30 days. Colleagues voted per rollam on this proposal, and as a KSČM club, we will mostly, I suppose, vote in favour of a 30-day extension. At the very end, allow me one more short replica. We're dealing with the government. Once again, I thank the Minister for communicating with us, and we have been communicating with him today. And we're dealing with things that maybe when they're done, somebody's gonna say, we made sure of it. We are now discussing, for example, and we have not yet found a consensus with the Minister, but we are discussing how to resolve the end of the old year, 2020 and the transition to 2021. If the fifth stage is announced, the curfew will be between 21 and 5 a.m., and I believe that I am deeply convinced that many citizens will not respect this measure. Because it's basically a special day. And I asked the Minister to consider with his team whether it could be done in any way, even if I don't like it, you don't like it, but to make some exception that we would just do for this day. Because, in addition to the health crises mentioned by the Minister in his argument, I respect them with the full responsibility of what he says, which are firmly linked to those economic reasons, but there are precisely those reasons of legal, social and political nature. And these are things, Minister, when even the health reasons should be very well reviewed, because those social, political and perhaps legal reasons could be perceived very badly by citizens. The police would not be able to, and maybe, I don't want to say willing, that would be very bad, they would not be able to bring about a remedy in the event of a breach of this condition, and it would also lead to a threat to the rule of law's confidence in this country. So, Minister, I would certainly like us to discuss this matter again, even if we can come to some agreement, and colleagues from other political parties will say that they have pushed for something completely different. Thank you for your attention and repeat, the KSČM Club will support the extension of the emergency by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u15	Thank you. They'll be followed by a performance with priority rights. First, President Marian Jurečka, then Mr Dominik Feri for TOP 09 and then Minister Jan Blatný. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am very sorry that the Prime Minister here has said an emotional speech in which a lot of untruths have been made, and now he's up and gone. So I'll ask the Minister of Health if he's willing to convey some things to him. A lot has been said here, I don't know if the Prime Minister spoke to me or to a colleague of the Výborný, or to a colleague of Kaňkovský, who we drove or didn't drive. I don't think it's crucial in life how many people you drive, but what results it has and what tangible results you as a controlling person have had. You were talking about me, I remember when you were at the Ministry that I was leaving, so you praised me there. You said I did it right. So either you lied then or you're lying today, I don't know. But you can ask farmers and other people who evaluate my work for four years at the resort. Marek Výborný, I think, director, respected director of good grammar school. Vít Kaňkovský, former director of the hospital, respected chief of staff. I don't think there's any need to add any more. It bothers me, though, that this kind of discussion is going on. It bothers me when the Prime Minister here degenerates people by whether they're young, old, if they're driving ten, twenty, thirty thousand people or so. I mean, it doesn't mean the quality of what we're here to discuss and what we're here to come up with in this House. I'm sorry. Two days before Christmas, I don't think it belongs here in the House. Then I was sorry too, Prime Minister, you're no longer here when you said we were doing nothing for those entrepreneurs, for the people in the Czech Republic. Now my colleague, Vice-President Tomáš Zdechovský, has been serving as a volunteer for several weeks, just today, when we are here, again in a medical facility. Vít Kaňkovský serves as a doctor. We've done a lot of legislative work here, which you've supported in the end. It's either directly or you adopted it. I'll just remind you, the KDU-ČSL was the first to bring in an increase in the infirmary here at the end of March, support for people on agreements, support for small eseróčka, all in the legislative system to track down. So please don't say that we didn't do anything, that we were against businessmen, people, if that's not true. When then these proposals were taken over by your ministers and, at the distance of two or three weeks, they were voted out here. After all, you, for example, voted in favour of our proposal to raise the infirmary. Or for suggestions by colleagues of Marek Výborný in the field of insolvency and debt relief. Your Members voted in favour of this, too. Don't tell people who are looking at it today, things that aren't really true. We supported the draft state budget twice this year. When the first wave of deficit increased to 200 billion at that time, even to 300, KDU-ČSL's votes in both cases supported it. Because nothing else could have been done in that situation. The fact that we had reservations about this large budget for next year has been made clear, we have said them and we are read in it. [[16.10 hours]] You said we were unconstructive. You, Prime Minister, texted me two weeks ago that you wanted to act. And I've come to meet you. We sat at the table, we had a serious conversation, you acted very politely, seriously for two weeks, because you came and needed something. When foreign missions were approved, the opposition ripped the thorn out of your heel, not your coalition partner, the Communists. Again, don't tell people things that aren't true. You pulled a huge trump card here, that you found out that there are no beds in the state's material reserves, that there are beds from the '60s. But Prime Minister, you have the third year of the Minister of Health. It is the competence of your department under your control, and you know how it works, that the Minister is coming to the Security Council of the State and to the government proposing what he wants to buy. So it's a little bit like you're pecking your own nest when you're using this argument because it doesn't point to opposition incompetence, but to the fact that these things have been neglected. Yes, they've been neglected for a long time. But even in your ministers, they were neglected. And the last one. You said vaccination was surgery. I do not doubt that this is a logistically demanding matter, complex, it must be negotiated with the authorities, working with the regions. But we're here - and my colleague Výborný didn't say any a prior cheap criticism. He said normally humanely, these things, and we think that they are not entirely optimally tuned, made views of Germany and gave only an incentive to the government as well as in the form of resolutions. And it was a serious, decent debate. I find it pointless for the Prime Minister to come out here and speak in such a tone to other Members. And at the very end, I'm just gonna say, you said you were an expert. I hate to do this, but I have to say it. You performed in March of this year, and you said that everyone has respirators, everyone who needs them has them, who doesn't have them, that you will deliver them to him that day. And you know it wasn't true that you cut yourself off terribly back then, that it was completely out of the picture back then. The same thing you said you took personal responsibility for smart quarantine, tracking and testing. To this day, people, including teachers, have been waiting three or four days for testing. To this day, there are stories where, within the framework of a clever quarantine, workers call on the seventh eighth day and tell those people - please don't tell us anything, don't complain, we're just calling because we have to, but we're late because we don't have the capacity. I don't want to do cheap criticism. I know it's very complicated and difficult. No government was in such a difficult situation, no minister came to his office in such a difficult situation as this minister. But we've always behaved constructively as KDU-ČSL, if we criticized some things, so that things change, they improve. And that's what we've been doing all along. In mid-October, I sent the Home Secretary to nominate our deputy to the Central Crisis Staff. She's been rejected by your instructions, Prime Minister. You instructed the Home Secretary not to take anyone from the opposition to the Central Crisis Staff. Then why do you say things like that that we don't cooperate and we don't feel like putting our hands on each other if that's not true? And I've given dozens of examples here that haven't been the case in the last 11 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will now speak with the opinion of the TOP 09 club, Mr Blatný will be prepared by the Minister of Health, then with priority rights for the KSČM club Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u18	Thank you. Minister, where is the Minister of Industry and Trade? Why isn't he here? You're asking us to extend the emergency. You want to continue to take crisis measures that affect the livelihood and means of earning the livelihood of many thousands of people, and you do not bother to come here with the Minister of Industry and Trade to deal with compensation. It's no surprise. Every two weeks we meet here, the opposition always sees the compensation and the measures. The Minister of Industry and Trade is not here. The Prime Minister isn't here. Thank you for having the Minister of Culture, I appreciate that very much. But these measures affect all the spheres of the economy. The Minister of Industry and Trade is not here. Unbelievable. I have the impression that the government always picks a certain segment of the economy, sits on it, throws sticks at it over and over again, and probably wants to take it out. The example from last week is fitness centers. You tell yourself, it's a leisure activity. But that's not really an understanding of reality, because what's leisure activity, fun, relaxation for some people is a pretty crucial way for others to feed themselves, feed their family, and raise money for their employees. According to publicly available sources, there are some 1,250 fitness centers in the whole Czech Republic. There are tens of thousands of people in them. The government first came up with the fact that they had to wear drapes during the exercise, then began to say that shops and services would be open. And all of a sudden, we see at a press conference that the fitness centers will actually be closing down. Many initiatives have been going on here for several days, trying to reverse this decision. And we're telling them the truth. We called on the government to submit relevant data on the basis of which it decided to close the fitness centers. I've been sending it to you, Minister, with a date, I haven't received any answers yet. [[to the Minister of Health]] You understand, these compensations to this sector are just ridiculous. And why am I talking about this? Well, because these people are texting us. These people are telling me, why can't I go work out? A lot of them write to me. Or why can't I be open when the malls are just full, and my gym, where I'd keep the arrangements, has to be closed? The government always picks someone, and then they just hit them with a stick until it completely destroys them. Fitness centers are an example of this week. What's next week? Or what's the next example? Well, of course, restaurants and pubs. That's my favorite topic. I remember that when the transition to PES 4 was considered, all ministers had 100 percent in their eyes. We'll give you 100 percent. That'll be 100 percent. We'll lock you up, but we'll give you 100 percent. Yeah, but there's a catch again, the government went around again, because the government obviously doesn't want to pay, doesn't it? The government just wants to ban and close. All right, I'll give you a specific example. 100 percent rent, 100 percent wages and some 400 crowns per employee. And I called the MIT today. There's a catch, the program, the challenge hasn't been announced yet. It won't be published until January. You know what the next catch is? That, as a restaurant, to get the money for the employees, it must be the employees for the main job. Does the government even live in reality? Does he know that many restaurants employ temps to employ students? What kind of support will you have for the student club where the students just made a business, did some cultural events there, had to close, all working on DPP or DPČ? What do you have for them besides the middle finger? Nothing! You ditched them. Because you've prepared a subsidy program - or prepared it, you said, that's really Potěmkinův's government, you said there'd be some kind of subsidy. But it's not, it'll be in January. This is unbelievable! If the Minister of Industry and Trade were here, if the MPs and people were worth it, he'd come in here and say, "We're gonna rework it." Or they'll build it for sure. He's not here. He didn't bother to come for a reason. Perhaps the only excuse would be that he's sitting in the ministry writing or rewriting the grant program. He should have done it by now. If the government is to maintain a little trust, it is to come up with measures that are not entirely against common sense. The fact that much of these measures is completely illogical is clear is that they have been since spring. But the idea of banning a night out for New Year's Eve, I really think that's out of the question. Nobody's gonna follow that. I understand that people do not agree with many measures, but to ban night-walking on New Year's Eve, to be very clear - and I did not notice any different comments, simply the Minister of Health said no, without exceptions, we are not considering any exceptions. Then I don't see how we can say there will be exceptions to midnight Mass, how logically this can be explained. How do you explain that? There's no logical explanation. But on New Year's Silvestr, we're gonna tell people if tomorrow's probably five-- no, you're gonna have to be home by 9:00. It's absurd, it's incomprehensible. If it feels right to you, let these people come to you, explain it to them. You're not gonna make it. You're not gonna make it. 'Cause the proposal just paused them. [[16.20 hours]] You're not gonna be able to make one exception for New Year's Eve, which would actually make up for the whole night curfew nonsense, the curfew. That's a crazy thing to do. Put that exception in there for New Year's Eve. I mean, the government's just gonna be a joke. Like me, it doesn't matter to the opposition, but the government will just be a joke. Those people aren't gonna keep it. And that's what the minister keeps naming and saying, well, the situation is getting worse because people don't follow the measures. Well, you can't just go out on New Year's Eve. You can't. Our MP's club won't support an emergency. It was therefore an interesting accusation by Mr Ondráček, through Mr President, that it is therefore not the responsibility of all of us, and the opposition does not want it, and it was also the prosecution of the Prime Minister. But we're spinning in circles. The government always comes in here, says, "We want you to extend the emergency to raise your hand for it, here's your responsibility, but otherwise keep your mouth shut. 'Cause if we come up with something, you're gonna ignore it or, better yet, you're gonna wear it on, but lately, you're just gonna ignore it. Every week we send our proposals to the Minister of Health, they are not reflected at all, they are not allowed to hear, simply. But the Prime Minister always wants us to give him the emergency. Well, it's perfectly logical that we don't support it, because if we can only bear that share of responsibility, but we can't interfere with the executive at all, how these measures look, how compensation is realized, we simply can't support such an emergency situation. And you can play it by saying that emotions like, you don't care about people's lives and health. [[Nesroz.]] We care about them! But we would never let it happen in a situation where people don't have the means to live, they just can't provide for their family, their loved ones. That's what you did with your crisis measures, and yet you have the nerve to come in here and say, extend it to us. We're spinning in an incredible circle where we're trying to make a constructive presentation, you're ignoring it. So ignore us, but you ignore the people you ruin your livelihood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Minister Jan Blatný will now appear. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to bring some peace into this perhaps unnecessarily detected atmosphere and perhaps concrete data to pour pure wine, or to tell ourselves why the Czech Government is asking you for an emergency. I've already said it, but I'll do it again. Without emergency conditions, no restrictions on the free movement of persons are possible. Without an emergency, there is no work obligation for students. Without an emergency, critical infrastructure entities and their necessary suppliers, including the integrated rescue system, may not be used. Without an emergency, state reserves may not be available. In an emergency situation, the operation of various establishments, shopping centres etc. can be handled very limitedly. Basically, there's almost nothing you can do. That's why we're asking for an emergency. It is often argued that we are completely insane and that Germany and other countries are much better off. So I just want to inform you quite unemotionally that - I'm sorry that I had to leave for a quarter hour, the reason was a telephone call with Minister Spahn for the vaccine - so I'm just informing you that the German Federal Republic has something from this March to next March called epidemic status and which is very similar to our emergency situation and which allows them to implement all these measures. Does one of the Members want to say that everything is wrong in Germany, that everything does not work in Germany? Absolutely not. At least I haven't had that kind of signal yet. On the contrary, we often hear how great everything is in Germany and how we do everything wrong. I would just point out to you that this is a national quality of ours - always to be terribly lost, to say that we are completely incompetent and that in other countries everyone does it much better. I don't think so. They do it well in those countries, we do it well, and we do it differently. And it's not a bad thing at all. The world is like that. Let's be proud of ourselves, please, across all the political spectrum, sometimes, or a little proud of ourselves, and it doesn't matter what political party we're in or who we're talking about. Let's talk for each other, please. This counter seems to change people, as if they stopped being human and became just Members or just members of a party. I have the advantage of not being a member of any party, and I'm trying to make sure that counter doesn't change me. When I return to the specific things that have been said here, it is not true that there is no capacity for testing, yes, there is a great interest in testing, capacity increases, for example in the South Bohemian Region and thanks to cooperation - and here I really see no difference at all between who is from which political side, namely, the Governor of Kuba has helped greatly by increasing to twice the capacity. Prague University Hospitals significantly increased their capacity within a few days and due to them. With regard to the "dog" that is so often criticized, as I said from the start, it is simply evaluated and this evaluation will be completed by the end of the year, we will present what the output of this evaluation is, in particular we will try to incorporate into it the very necessary, very necessary burden of hospitals. It's one of the important ones, but it's definitely not the only source of information. I'm not the one who should probably be addressed when it comes to compensation, I just think there's an effort to improve compensation. This has been mentioned recently, some adjustments have been made, and I think everyone is trying to make things better. But again, I'm not the one who should be responsible for this, so I'm not giving up my share of responsibility. As far as tracing is concerned, please note that Austria and Germany, at a time when they had patients comparable to us, were unable to scare more than 77 percent of their patients. We're able to trace between 70 and 90 percent within 24 hours. And of course, as the numbers increase, and I say this quite frankly, every system has its limit, and the moment we get about 10,000 patients per day, we won't be able to track everyone as we wish. That's the reality, but that's the way it is, the system, every system has its limits. As far as vaccination is concerned, please, vaccination is ready, vaccination centres exist, we respond to supplies available within the European Union. I can tell you and promise that there are currently names available for those people who will be vaccinated in these vaccination centres, the first veil is the twenty-seventh, the next, where we got 20,000 extra doses, is the twenty-nineth, today the Pfizer confirmed another increase in supplies. There are precise timetables for January, who is a priority, it is for Pfizer for the period of January only those who are inside the medical facility, that is, they are doctors of critical infrastructure, medical facilities, there hospitalized seniors and seniors in homes. This means all of this is and the strategy, as it is being developed and continuously supplemented, because it cannot be completed completely and immediately, because the way and when the doses of the vaccines will be delivered is also evolving. Please note that only the first, first, vaccine has been approved, and there have been several changes in deliveries over the last month. So, please, let's not be more papal than the pope, it's really not possible. And I can only assure you that it is not true that the Czech Republic is not ready for vaccination, and it is not true that nothing is done for it. Of course, it is not just because of the people who are currently in government, it is because of all the people involved, and we are working with everyone. As far as the vaccine is concerned, I will say that Pfizer is not for the physician, which means that, at the moment, practical doctors will not be vaccinated and that the public outside the institutions that I have talked about when all goes well, those deliveries, as they should, can start ordering for vaccinations from February, with the fact that at that time the reservation system will be operational, which is not worth operating earlier, because it will not be available to the public before. This vaccination system will then allow people from those priority groups where seniors from the community belong to prepare themselves there. [[16.30 hours]] Let me say that I do not believe that these are some messy decisions. We really rely on very similar information, such as Germany, and when deciding what risk scenario we're going to move into, we use the same parameters as Germany's, we just scored them in addition. But please, we're not doing this... because there's nothing else we can do. Everyone behaves very similarly and some we criticize more, some we criticize less. As far as what was here is an appeal to when we go to risk number 5, because basically there isn't much doubt that we're going to go to it, because even those numbers from hospitals aren't such that we can continue to burden them with no change, so one of the things that we're thinking about is that it's not from the 25th, but it's from the 27th, which allows people who especially get tested to meet during Christmas holidays. But that's definite, and I'm just repeating it, the definitive decision isn't really going to happen until tomorrow, because we want to have as much data as possible from this week's week's day especially from hospitals. Because at the moment, these are the hospitals that we need to keep going and which are what we have to keep at any cost. Because when it didn't happen, it would be a problem for all of us. When it comes to New Year's Eve, on the other hand, I think we'd all be funny if we made more and more exceptions. On the contrary, we need to make a decision and hold on to that decision. And I think that all citizens, too, would take this very strangely if a decision had been made and subsequently started to make dozens of other exceptions. So I really don't think it's some kind of chaos or a lot of other words that I don't even remember and that were said here. I've already talked about compensation. I understand that this is an absolutely fundamental subject, and I understand that they need to be discussed further. I am not an economic minister, but I strongly support the demands in this regard and I fully understand them. I guess we don't have to argue about that. And yet I dare to disprove the criticism we've been discussing here. So it's not just a restrictive measure. At the moment, we really don't have much other options, like other countries, than to go to what we call stage 5, and every other country calls it different. But it's the same thing. But, for example, with athletes or with culture, we are preparing pilot programmes based on repeated testing of those who want to carry out these activities, precisely to enable them. And this, in cooperation with the vaccination, will lead to the situation being handled. And I'm just reminding you again that really many countries that we look up to differently said in advance that it wouldn't be until March. Some even said it wouldn't be until June. So please do not want to think that we will resolve this situation by January or some other time and that we will resolve it in connection with what our current legislative framework allows us to do. I think I'm trying the other way around, no matter how much I speak for myself, to judge the situation very objectively. I myself do everything I can to communicate with you, try to come here as much as possible. I'm trying to be non-emotional and answer your questions based on the data. I understand them all. You represent the citizens of this country, I try to accommodate you in some way. We're not sure, and we don't have to have the same opinion about everything, that's how the opinions are treated, that's totally fine. And I don't want anyone else to think the same way I do. I just want us to be able to interrogate each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u21	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar will now appear, then Mrs Jana Černochová with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. [[Minister Blatný is taken to the phone.]] I would like to ask the Minister for a moment of attention, because I would like to perhaps, quite exceptionally, read here a few questions that I have received from a person who wants to be vaccinated as soon as possible. He's a person who, if I read correctly, 69 years old, has a bilateral pulmonary embolism that he's been through, and he's really scared. It's a man who's afraid, and he asks me, "Please ask the minister, should I call all Ostrava hospitals and try to sign up somewhere?" Or will the district doctor be calling us? He probably wouldn't have made it. Or is someone going to provide it according to the insurance company's information? Or is it going to be like this when the director of one of the Prague hospitals says, "I'm going to vaccinate you and you, and it's going to be the first person to come in, the first person to talk"? Just, uh, Minister, I think it might want to publish some kind of vaccination plan. The last one was published about four months ago. It would probably want to update these things, too, because those people who already want to use and are in the minority group of citizens of the Czech Republic who are really really waiting for the vaccine to have the information and not just that Prague, Brno, but also other big cities, but especially the other regions. Because, as the old man writes correctly, we have about 300,000 seniors who are in senior homes. That's where he can imagine someone coming in with a mobile car, there's gonna be a mobile refrigerator minus 71 degrees, a doctor jumps out, stretches it out, and gradually begins to vaccinate the elderly. Or are you gonna take the seniors to some kind of hospital vaccination center? This, too, is theoretically logistically manageable. And these questions are asked by these people. How's this gonna work? And, of course, we have 2.5 million elderly people who are at home. And they also belong to the risk group, and I think it would be necessary to adjust the plan as soon as possible and publish how it will be done, especially in the practical implementation, so that the uncertainty of these people is calmed down. So much for the shortcut from the citizen's question I promised I'd make. The second thing I'd like to say here, and it doesn't come out of my words for the first time, is, and now I'm sorry for the words, the absolute ignorance of the Ministry of Health against misinformation. You have completely ignored the challenges that I have said from this desk twice in prolonging the emergency situation, that you simply ignore a large group of people who are afraid of vaccination, fear of the disease, or, on the contrary, make it easier. When I looked at today, now, on the pages of your ministry, the reaction to inaccuracies is the last inaccuracies of the Ministry of 11. 11. Since then, I guess the Ministry hasn't issued any inaccuracies to fix any mistakes. But we know how the PES and others worked and what exceptions were. At least it was supposed to show up. I'm looking at your site, the area of disinformation about covid. I was intrigued by the first information: "Only with registered vaccines will the indication and contraindications be established. Each person should also follow the advice of his doctor who knows his general health." On the one hand, you say that the vaccine is safe, that people can get shots, on the other hand, you call them after the recommendation of the circuit doctor. So again, there's no information in the vaccination strategy. And it's not a complaint that it's listed here among the misinformation. But I'm asking, why? There's no specific answer here. Those people will find the answer. My colleague here, the doctor, is smiling in my face, and he's saying I'm probably talking wrong. But here are people, and a large group of people who are afraid and talk about things that I can't even imagine they could be. Some kind of conspiracy. You may laugh at them, but these people are really worried that this is just a business of pharmaceutical companies and that the covid isn't so bad and that you can survive. There are already almost 600,000 people who had it and went through it with no problems at all. These people inform their others and how they work. We may be laughing about it, laughing about it, but I would expect serious answers on the Ministry of Health website. Maybe here's a link: Antigen tests are unreliable. Wearing a drape is dangerous. There's a reference to a "disinformation site" that's called that. But there's absolutely no answer to why this website is wrong. At least a line about them not being right about those things because... And that's because I'm missing all the majority answers here on the web "disinformation" is. It is also the web site where profesor Bárta is declared, if I am not mistaken, Beran, sorry, and Václav Klaus as authors of disinformation. It's always here. But why should they be disinformers, or where they're wrong, they're not listed here at all. I think that's a big mistake with the Ministry of Health. And now for the present. Today I downloaded my opinion on vaccination against conavir SARS-CoV-2, signed by Professor Dr. Jiřina Bartůňková, DrSc, MBA, head of the Institute of Immunology of the 2nd Faculty of Medicine of Charles University, Faculty Hospital Motol. It's 11 points. On those 11 points, she speaks as an experienced immunologist about how the vaccination takes place and what she thinks about it. But it is contrary to what we hear from the Minister's mouth, if any. about how the vaccination is supposed to take place. [[16.40 hours]] She's talking about not being vaccinated by those who are currently experiencing it. The Minister's statement - so the vaccine is good, let's vaccinate, never mind. I'm asking, so here's the contradiction of a doctor I respect, he has the experience and expertise, and I'd like it to appear in the Ministry, somewhere on those pages as a contradiction, possibly. an analysis of this whether or not the citizens should follow it and trust their doctor, expert, immunologist or not. And the doctor here talks about concerns and things, but she supports vaccination. She says it's the only help, but she's asking questions people ask us politicians. And how are we supposed to know about this? And this is also one of the reasons why we have decided, and here my colleague previous speaker Zdeněk Ondráček clearly said to support 30 days. We just refuse to take responsibility as politicians for the government. The government is declaring emergency measures. It's her jurisdiction. We can maximize if the government starts violating the personal, human and other rights of citizens on the basis of an emergency, and we find that the violation is too much to stop. We can extend it if necessary, but the government has the right to declare it and the government should be clearly responsible for what action it is taking. And it was said here, and I believe that the emergency situation is necessary, because logistically, it is not possible to handle vaccination without the possibility of ordering these matters that are related to it, but again I say, as a politician, I do not have the right to decide whether or not the emergency situation is still in place. It is a clear and clean government duty, and the government should take a clear position on this and, above all, do something about the information that is common on the Internet, on the faceboards, and on the other hand, when discussions are discussed - on the one hand, experts, on the other hand, amateurs, but they argue about the basic data that then bring great distrust among people. And let's just stop mocking these people, let's stop looking at them as some kind of freak, because they have a similar opinion or a weird opinion about something, but let's just try to humanly start explaining it to them. You have a gift, Doctor, I've told you before, to speak human to people. You come from your profession. Try to use it also in explaining these things. Maybe it's stupid, but I can imagine a quarter of an hour every day on TV, in a public media that I would give you the space to explain these things to people. There's just no information. And it turns out that the media has failed, for me certainly, and now it's time for the experts to really talk. And you have the gift, so try to apply it and try to start talking to those people who are afraid, afraid, from both sides, and explain these things. I wish I could. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. Mrs Jana Černochová will now appear, and Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Unfortunately, the Dominik Feri I wanted to speak to is not present, and I wanted to speak to the Minister. I wanted to say that, unlike my colleague, Feri, who I otherwise appreciate and who has done a huge amount of work on social networks by simply doing a lot of things for the government, I cannot agree with him about the midnight service. And I'll admit it was me who turned to the ministers, the Prime Minister, to make an exception, to make an exception to the midnight service. And I refuse to compare here Christmas as a Christian holiday with a New Year's celebration, although of course I would like it to be possible to make a toast on New Year's Eve under different circumstances. On the other hand, as mayor of the central part of the city, I really know with my own eyes what has been going on in the city centre in recent years, and in this respect I am absolutely behind the government that midnight has loosened up so that the people who are coming from the midnight service can return and not break the curfew, but if it were the permit on New Year's Eve, I will be the first to criticize it, because I really think that this situation is not the case at the moment, and even these two important days, or more important days of the year, cannot be compared. I'm a conservative politician, so I guess you understand my approach to Christmas and New Year's Eve, that's a diametrical difference. I'd like to ask Minister Blatný for one thing. When I was discussing with the directors of our established schools what problems they are experiencing now about the children's return actually after the closure, we discovered one such problem that, in fact, sometimes hygiene is fundamentally different in their opinions. I've described the specific case to you in the interpellation. I don't want to keep my colleagues from doing this, but the point is that if, for example, a school visits a child who has some serious respiratory problems that he actually has confirmation from a specialist doctor that he can't wear a drape on his mouth, it was recommended and the parents bought a shield. The baby came to school with a shield. They agreed to it with one hygiene, she didn't have a problem with it. Based on a complaint from another parent who saw that this child had a shield and no drape, so they had to consult the superior body and they said that the child must have a drape, that he could not have a shield. It seems absurd to me, Minister. Indeed, there are a number of people in our society who, for some serious medical reason, cannot have a drape, even if they had previously undergone some oncological treatment, it is better for them to shield as protection than to suffocate in a cloak. I wanted to ask if it was possible for you to sort out these things with the health department in some way so that they would provide the same information, and then actually the directors, the teachers, didn't have to face any attacks from their parents, that in one case they would allow it, otherwise they wouldn't allow it. Last but not least, I have one more request for you. I turned to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Finance, who I discussed with about the rinks. As we know, the time before the Czech Republic returns to normal will probably not be very short, even if we all wish it. And generally sports for children is a topic that we all consider important. At least in those winter months, when we couldn't hold Christmas markets, we couldn't do other activities for children, so many of us mayors opened an outdoor rink that came through the last government regulation, so unfortunately not into the sport exception, but got to the number of six. If it would also be possible to consider whether it would not be appropriate given that the rinks, I think that they can really be the only option of any sports experience this season, so if it would be possible, because we will have them around until February, then not to evaluate the same rules as for the slopes, so that we can actually go back before the last "dog," of course under strict hygiene conditions, while keeping our distance, that is all about those operators who have turned to me and written to me that they are willing to respect this, monitor, observe. But I'd like to ask you, because I really think that if we don't want those kids to be completely isolated from their friends, classmates, sports, and parents didn't know what to do with them over the holidays, because they won't even be able to visit their relatives as a standard, let's let those kids out on the rink if it's just a little bit possible, and let's really let the operator's strict rules ensure all possible - ionization and various technologies are so advanced today that they actually guarantee maximum hygiene conditions. [[16.50 hours]] So this is two of my requests to you and one of my actions to the midnight service. And if any of you are at midnight - I hope we're not here on Christmas Eve at midnight, but if any of you are in Prague at midnight, I'm cordially inviting you to svatý Ludmila.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u25	Thank you. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will now speak in the debate, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Government, honourable Members, I would like to comment on the re-application for an extension of the emergency situation. I don't want an endless emergency, and that's because I live here and now. I will therefore focus on our situation, the current situation in our education. A little summary. Small children were only 3.5 months in school this year, i.e. in 2020, out of 10 months in total. So you sacrificed one quarter of their lives to save something here. And I'm asking, what exactly did you save with this? The parent is obliged to send his child to school and the state has a duty to provide education to children. I do not want distance learning or so-called rotational teaching, i.e. a week at school, a week at home, to become a common part of our educational system. The pupil has to go to school, not only because of teaching, which he can also have at home via a monitor, but also because of the regular regime and also because of the important thing, and that is social contact, which is an integral part of the development of the child from birth. Or the government and all of you want to create another generation or generation of introverts and social xenophobes? Because that's what we're coming to. Those kids just need social contact and they need to be in school. For example, how should first-degree students learn to read, write, and count through a monitor? It's horrible. So I ask the government, will you give us, if the emergency is prolonged, a guarantee that schools will no longer be closed? That pupils will be able to physically go to school? I'd like to hear a specific answer to that question of mine. Thank you so much for her. I am really very worried that the government is actively involved in the degradation of Czech education. I'm 26 years old, so I'm a little older than a kid in primary school and first grade, but I also want to live a normal life, I want to get married, have children, meet and live a normal, normal life. You guys took one twentieth of my life away from me, and if you keep holding an emergency for a year, two, three, and keep saying that I'm saving something, you're gonna ruin my whole life. And it's also worth something. And you should think about that, because every life of our citizens has great value, the greatest value. That's why I'm saying I don't want your permanent emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u27	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus is now next, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I'll follow up on my previous speaker. That's what this is all about. Our children were in school last year, if they went to second grade, 3.5 months out of ten. So the state - is compulsory schooling, parents must send the child to school, but the opposite is true. The State is obliged to provide education. That's what the law sounds like. And you've crossed that off by saving something. I don't think so. And now I'm going to talk a little bit in general. If you'd listened to yourself, Minister, you always say something a little different. Last time, it was in the accent that you lowered and what we've overcome, now it's kind of coming back, and it just doesn't match the reality. The truth is, Covid won't disappear, he'll be here with us, and we need to work with this fact and accept it. The measures must be long-term and sustainable. The vaccine will help only partially, not completely and not permanently. The new tribes may not respond, and, as it is, there will be an increase in the population and the emergence of some sort of collective protection. The World Health Organization clearly states that individual health is a summary of physical, mental and social factors. In other words, physical health is not enough, we must also be mentally healthy, and we must have a job and an adequate income for livelihood purposes. Our government and the vast majority of the governments of others are trying without greater success to fight for our physical health, not for mental and social health. I consider this procedure to be a gross strategic error. The virus may have been defeated at first when it came to China, but it didn't happen, and now it's going to be hard. Long-term border closure, various lockdowns and semi-lockdowns are measures from wall to wall and the chaos of government measures also testify to the constant renaming of "dog" to PES 1, PES 2 etc. etc. etc. Moreover, the figures he is working with are inaccurate and misleading, but from the nature of the matter the exact numbers that would justify the emergence of various measures, we simply do not have and cannot now, by the nature of the matter. Yet there is a huge demand for certain measures. Various experts are coming, and they are trying to tell us what measures they will take, but most of them are under pressure - under pressure from the government: quickly put something on the table that we should all follow. And it affects the life of 10.5 million people, the Čech. This concept is typical of such a director of the universe, for people who think that the state has to control everything, and that combination of expert policy, and I really don't want to reduce the expertise of the various virologists, doctors and others, are under enormous and hysteria-driven pressure, but that combined with the left-wing government, a supporter of a strong state, makes a relatively lethal combination that we have. We are not yet able to maintain our physical health, but there is a significant deterioration in mental health - look at the square as people demonstrate - and the threat to the social health of millions of people. That's just a fact. We think that we need to change the strategy completely, namely, to the exclusive protection of vulnerable groups, people over 70, 75 years of age, whether it be shopping times, reserved places in transport and so on, a complete change in how the state behaves in senior homes, etc. etc., and all shops, restaurants and places - schools in particular - where the population that is not threatened is meeting. Another factor that no one has mentioned here is that, according to some data from recent weeks, we are beginning to grow the number of deceased persons who did not die from covid, and these are the victims of the whipped fear that they are late in the hospital or that the hospital often postpones a number of measures to care for covid. We all hope that the vaccine will somehow improve the condition slightly, it must be voluntary, but what I'm watching here in these repeated requests for emergency is simply a solution to the least resistance, it's chaos, it's desperation, and we can't sign up for it and we won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u29	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný will now appear, followed by Mr Dominik Feri. It'll depend on him to use the second application. Yes, he will. So Mr. Volný has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u30	[[It brings a big sign that says, "End of an emergency, we support targeted measures" and leans on the speaker's desk.]] Thank you, Mr President, I'm just -- hello, ladies and gentlemen -- I'm gonna check to see if my colleague Kalousek is here, so maybe he's not gonna steal my banner today. Marian, keep an eye out for him, if that's the case. [[17,00 hours]] However, we are dealing with a serious situation and we are dealing with it from a different perspective. It is true that we, on unattached Members, are not the weight of government politics, nor are we the weight of party politics. In essence, we non-attached Members are, I would say, the only singles here in this House who do not have to follow public opinion polls that individual peacock agencies supply to the government movement YES, or to the opposition parties who, in their programmes, are essentially trying to meet the results that those peacock agencies deliver to them within their electoral group. We decided to go the other way. We watched the media appearances of the experts. I would ask Mr Okamura not to disturb me. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Okamura is speaking to the President.]] Thank you. And we've addressed those we've verified that they have no connection to any lobbyist group that has never gone through any scandal in history, yet they disagree with us in a number of ways. That's why we invited Professor Jiří Beran, a candidate for science who is an immunologist and a vaccineologist, to the press conference today. Most of you seem to know my attitude to vaccination here, yet I have no problem working with the person who works in this field if he shows a clear and rational approach. We discussed before the press conference today. I have some data from the Institute of Medical Information and Services, whose work Mr. Beran highly praised. And it is based on the fact that, unlike March, when the epidemic began, we already clearly know who our enemy is and which group of our fellow citizens has the most interest in. So 92 percent of all deaths in the Czech Republic are people who were 65 years of age plus and either were overweight, a BMI higher than 40, decompensated diabetes or decompensated coronary heart disease. If it were in a category over 55 years of age, it would even be 98 percent of all deaths. 85 percent of the deceased had been hospitalized before. This is based on 2 percent of the remaining under 55 years, who unfortunately also paid the highest price for this insidious virus. From what I can tell. It follows that the general measures, as implemented by this government in the context of the emergency situation, not only do they not work in Germany, they do not work in Austria, they do not work in France, they do not work in the United States, but they do not work in our country either, because the system is tightened, tightened, allowed only to gradually soak up and does not lead to the virus disappearing. Unfortunately, there was a chance, there was an opinion that the virus could somehow mutate itself into a less dangerous form, and thus practically disappear, what didn't confirm, and we're going to have to prepare ourselves for living with the virus for a long time. profesor Beran's proposal, which you can also find on the website, is sufficient for you to enter "Jiří Beran: Who has had a disease does not need to be vaccinated" and will go out there whole or even. There's a record of the press conference on my Facebook page, it's very simple. He compared it to driving down the highway 130 kilometers in an hour of cars full of families. You're okay, nothing's gonna happen to them except for some unpredictable traffic accident that's gonna cause anything, a technical glitch or whatever. However, our endangered group are seniors who are trying to cross the road from right to left. It is not possible to stop the entire highway with all millions of people just so that these pensioners can cross over, or this endangered group could go from right to left, but it is necessary to build a provisional bridge for them at present. And Dr. Beran is proposing two concrete ways to help these people in these vulnerable groups. The first is targeted protection of these groups with a copy of the model that proved its functionality in Iceland, where people who have tested positive for covid or had symptoms have been in daily telephone contact with the security centre, because the covid is typical of a very fast transition from rest phase to critical condition. So this targeted phone monitoring and monitoring would be delayed so that those people would report their condition, shortness of breath, other symptoms, such as fever during the seventh day, fluctuating sugar levels, and then their condition would deteriorate to immediate hospitalization, so that people who suffer from covide and are at home die from the very same covid at home, because their condition will deteriorate rapidly and these people will no longer get to the hospital because they will die at home. Iceland has a lot of experience with this, it's managed to get to very low levels of mortality. The second thing we discussed is this treasure in my pocket. [[He's showing a box of drugs.]] This matter, which, as if almost impossible to have an expert debate, and certainly not political. It's Isoprinosin. Dr. Beran used Isoprinosin in collaboration with three elderly homes, about 300 people, and has statistically significant results. Death rates in the age range of 75 to 84 years, i.e. a very high age category, have fallen from 18 percent to 7.5 percent. In the so-called odds ratio, i.e. human survival chances in the case of PCR positivity increased three times. There was a case where half of these clients were ill at a retirement home, where there were 160 clients and it was structurally impossible to separate them from each other. This half applied Isoprinosin three times a day to two tablets, and the other half, which was PCR negative, took preventively twice one tablet of Isoprinosin. No one in that healthy group, although it was impossible to separate these people, was sick. Another such sad thing, in which we as a state have failed, is that 25 percent of all deaths are in institutions. This means that although we have known for a very long time that our seniors are the most threatened group, we have not been able to prevent them from dying in our retirement homes. And I say - it was from the President's mouth that we people who are against the emergency state that we are hyenas. I say, even the President has the right to be wrong. Personally, I think that if anyone is a hyena, it is someone who works in the pharmaceutical industry lobby and systematically and intentionally defends the whole society's discussion on the subject of this drug, which already has client practice, is allowed, it is safe. In many countries lege artis can also be used for acute respiratory diseases. And the only problem with us is that this acute respiratory disease cannot be used yet and must be used off-label. However, I would recommend to all who follow us to try to secure this medicine, to study their contraindications because, like every medicine, they have those contraindications, to discuss its use with their doctor, and if they do not reach it within the Czech Republic, so let them order it for the Polish mail order service, because there is a cure with the same active substance freely available and can be sent to you. Do not doubt that if you do this, you will increase your chances of survival. You'll increase them three times. Why don't we support the emergency? I fully respect and acknowledge the arguments made by my colleague Ondráček. Yes, the emergency is needed to keep people busy, or to order people to do some work. I no longer acknowledge the arguments of the Minister of Health that people need to be banned from movement because very disciplined Němec, very disciplined Rakušan, I have read x articles in the newspapers, as the citizens of Germany, the citizens of Austria do not dare to go out with their noses, how disciplined they are, how they follow all measures. Their businessmen are getting rich compensation, and yet the virus is spreading to us. It spreads, spreads virtually everywhere around the world, and the only answers are other surface measures that have already proven their dysfunction. [[17.10 hours]] For us, for the United, I can say that we will promote the protection of those who belong in vulnerable groups, and we will try to start a debate about not paying entrepreneurs and small businesses any compensation because we will not prohibit them from working, and we will offer the money saved to our seniors and people in vulnerable groups for voluntary isolation. It will be far more effective, because people who are at risk, who belong to these endangered groups, or people who simply fear covide stay at home voluntarily, get an extra fee for it, get the money you would otherwise bail out entrepreneurs, and those who want to go through the front will go to work and keep our economy running. Employees will pay taxes, pay social and health insurance, and help with their money to spin the wheels of the economy in other areas. As far as I'm concerned, I think there's a fairly simple approach that can be characterised by who's on the economic side of the covid. There are people who have become enormously rich on the covid. It's billions worth of contracts, not even CZK, but dollars. Some people could really take covid as a gift from God. Then there are people like us or a lot of civil servants who haven't been touched by covid so far. However, there are already a lot of people, and today it was visible, today these people were about 150, I wouldn't be surprised if in the month of January there were 1,500, which the measures against the covid touched so much that they really have trouble putting bread on the table, which is especially unpleasant at Christmas. Covidu as such was not afraid of Mr Prymula, Mr Faltýnek here was not afraid of him, Mr Kalousek was not afraid of him, but in general the situation is that citizens want them to be scared to fear. We propose a different, different approach. Don't worry, let's follow the latest results, or let's watch the results of all the research that says that people who had a severe COVID-19 course had acute vitamin D deficiency, acute vitamin C deficiency. We've got a drug to perform a clinical trial that's cheap, it's generic. That's probably why it's such a problem, because they don't look at any money from this drug. We've authorized here a study of an American drug for quite expensive money, which wasn't known at all. We've allowed it, we've given him such an ad that it's been in every newspaper, every Internet server, every news. But the fact that we have a top immunologist and a vaccinologist, Professor Beran, who has specific and unambiguous results here with this drug, is somehow a rather mysterious, media and information taboo. So, yes, we can do this together. Together, we can beat the covid and each other's similar diseases. But all we can do is work together, and we can't do it if we lock ourselves in cages. So I'd like to ask you to slowly change the paradigm we're thinking about, because the covid will still be here with us. He's not gonna kill him, he's not gonna be taken out by any vaccine, the covid's gonna be here all the time. Maybe he'll mutate, maybe he won't mutate. Let's take targeted measures for those people who need it, and the rest of us need to be brave enough to go through this covideo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u31	Have a nice late afternoon. Now, with priority right, I have a request for a speech from the chairman of the TOP 09 club, Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared in the general debate. I have a note that this will be the second performance, and I just point out that Members are limited by two speeches. However, this does not apply to preferential rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, all of you, who are trying to get some results, I do not thank the government. It is not quite common that, if the government asks for such extraordinary powers related to an emergency situation, neither the Prime Minister nor the Home Secretary nor any of the Vice-Presidents of the Government are present. I see only the Minister of Culture and Minister Blatníček here, sorry, Minister Blatný. That in itself shows how seriously the government is taking this request. In fact, the emergency situation is nothing more than a legal framework to which we entrust the government with quite extraordinary powers. Powers by which it has the right to restrict citizens' freedoms. We can only do that if we know what the government will do with those powers. The problem is that the government has shown many times that it doesn't really know how to deal with these powers. Tuesday he doesn't know what he's gonna do on Wednesday, the measures are chaotic. In order for the Ministry of Health to write one single resolution that is correct, it needs about three to four repairs. The situation is pretty desperate. I completely understand that we are in an absolutely exceptional situation, and the exceptional situation calls for extraordinary measures, but it is not possible for us to bear responsibility for what the government is doing when the government does not want to talk to us about it. If I take it that we've already asked for a vaccination plan in the fall, when I take what we've proposed to the government, very constructively, the government either ignored it, or the Prime Minister mocked, I just can't accept the game that the opposition is here to approve the emergency situation and keep it from talking to the government. Not at all. That's impossible! I understand that the government seems to need the legal framework of emergency, but let those who agree to the government's procedure be responsible for this. This is not us, which is why we will not vote in favour of an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u33	I will now ask for Mr Dominik Feri's speech and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Although I was not in the hall, I listened to the performances as Minister of Health, thank you for trying to respond to the questions asked, but also to my colleague from ODS, when we addressed the issue on New Year's Eve. I understand that everyone has some experience with this, that in big cities it's just street parties, but I just have the impression that we shouldn't take measures that are obviously against real life and that real life will go by. I feel like it's... It is my opinion, my personal opinion that such measures simply degrade the seriousness of the law. But I understand that this is a minority opinion and that there will be no exception, and I believe that the measure will be respected, that I was wrong. I would like to turn to the Minister of Health. I am sorry that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not here about one thing which is also very sensitive with regard to the coming holidays, and this is the situation of the Čech in the UK. Yesterday I spoke with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and he told me that this is obviously being addressed, for which I am very glad. I have also spoken with the Prime Minister, but that the decision to break the air link with Great Britain depends on the ECDC's position and therefore on how serious the new mutation is and how the other European states will respond to it at European level. I heard the position was due today. I wanted to ask if it had already arrived, or when it would eventually come, and what would be done in the event that the position would be negative, because it could probably happen that it would be negative. Let us understand that this is not just about students who are there on Erasmus, but also about truck drivers, who are there in large quantities. And I know that negotiations are under way with the Benelux and France, and on this matter, I think it would be appropriate to give them some information, because that is what these people want - to get back to the Czech Republic to their families, and they want to know what will happen to them, if they are already on a flight, they are not supposed to provide a flight. We should give them this information. [[17.20 hours]] And when I said that in my first performance on compensation, I think it's pretty clear now, and no one's hiding that we're just gonna get to level five in the PES system. But what about the measures? Minister Blatný argued here that the exceptions discredit the government, or the exceptions make the government a laughing matter to some people, and therefore we cannot accept further exceptions. But let's keep in mind that we're not at stage four right now in the PES system, but we're at stage three and a half, because in that system four, the rules are much stricter than they are now. And I'd like to ask if, if we go into system five to confirm that there will be a closing of business and services and that the compensation will go hand in hand and that the compensation will be quick. I see that the government has been going through some kind of mental development since she didn't want to give any money at all as compensation, when she was being restrained. But it's not just about whether there's compensation or whether there's no compensation, but it's about whether the money comes quickly. What these businessmen are calling for is backup. So they can just pay for what's needed so they can pay it fast. But I'm sure they don't want compensation, like some entrepreneurs are now getting compensation for spring. Well, it's really a business cross. It's just that the company could be in insolvency when they come in, or when she should be getting some money for having to shut down. That means if it goes to level five, I'd like to know what's going on with the compensation. This is the last opportunity for us as opposition Members to ask, because then there will be no more negotiations. And it's very important, very sensitive and those compensations should be on the table and they should be quickly and addressly administered. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u35	I will now ask for Mr Patrik Nacher's speech and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u36	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I originally thought I wasn't going to get out, but I listened carefully and I thought there should be a little bit of a different perspective, a different point of view. First of all, I would say that most of all, it turns out that the person who opposes the emergency situation is thinking well of us, and whoever supports the emergency situation is somehow enjoying it, it's like some big fun or something. It's not like that. I'm certainly not, you know how often I perform, a non-critical advocate of permanent emergency extension, but I just take it as a necessity. I take that as a necessity when I look at how it works in the surrounding countries. I'm certainly not a fan of hysterical reactions that we all go to, that we should shut down schools, preferably until May and so on. At the same time, I am not a supporter of deniers who say nothing is happening. Likewise, as I read on the News List, I am one of the two ANO Members who is not considering vaccination at this time. However, what bothers me here and what I would like to point out is the criticism at all costs. No matter what. That's what bothers me. Don't be mad at me, colleagues. We are in an extraordinary situation where I think this classic division of opposition and the coalition should not apply dogmatically. And I've been taking notes of what I see the criticism at all costs of the specific comments that were made here on the microphone and which I've seen in the media in the last few days. And when I talk about criticism at all costs, I mean that it actually responds to a measure or a statement by another statement. And when that other statement comes true, it's criticized, too. In other words, he can't pay both. The point is, he can't pay both. Here it has been criticized that the government is already here for the sixth time with a request for an extension of the emergency situation. Logically for the sixth time. That was the reaction of Vice-President Okamura. Because he always comes here with a 30-day application, but the extension will take place by 14 days or three weeks. That means, then the time will explode and have to come back here again. If it was about that month, she'd be here, say, the third time, the fourth time, if I count correctly. But most of all, it's legal. It is not possible to vote here that we should have this for six months, or, as the Minister said, that some similar measures are being prepared in Germany for a year, although it is not called emergency measures. And the fact that it's the sixth time, that's just the way it is. The compensations are to be maximum. I agree. At the same time, it is not possible to criticize when future generations are indebted. Like, what would you want to pay the compensation for? I'd be, like, wondering. That means, let's compensate, let's do our best, I guess we agree. And at the same time, let's not go into debt. I'm like a guy who's studied banking and the economy, like, I don't know how to do it. It is absolutely ideal: compensate, but certainly not from our budget. Mined, for example, when we are talking at the level of the capital city of Prague and so on. That means the principle of NIMBY, put it up, but not by our garden, for sure. Compensate, but certainly not from our budget. He can't pay both. People are supposed to get more money. I agree. So they can decide what they're going to spend on to possibly protect them from some debt spiral when we're talking about low-income people. Then you can't vote against the tax package this morning. A critic who tells people to keep more money in this situation can't vote against the tax package. He can't pay both. The government underestimates these measures, says the Member, and at the same time, at another point, the government is too strict. I understand, because that's how someone who doesn't have the signature on it always responds, the one who doesn't have the responsibility. Of course, when the numbers are low, you need to loosen up faster, they say. When it gets worse, you need to tighten up fast. And it's always said by the one who doesn't bear the responsibility. I'd think about it that way, too. I've said that a lot. But it's true that then I don't have the stomper, my name won't always be there, that I'm the one responsible for the arrangement. Whether he's done tomorrow or he's done in a week or he's gonna start. The government doesn't listen to experts. Next. At the same time, as I understand it, experts recommend that the emergency situation be prolonged. So is the government supposed to listen to experts or not? And if he doesn't, he won't prolong the emergency, but then he won't listen to the experts again. So did Dominik Feri, today, when it comes to shutting down gyms and restaurants. And I'm sure he remembers that, for example, I've intervened with the Minister of Health in this, so it's not recommended by experts. So are we supposed to make the decisions here, or are we supposed to make the healthy common sense? Honestly, self-critically, I've never been a supporter of that. But then we don't listen to experts either. So either they're either paying one or they're paying the other. And the same goes for the different exceptions. It's the same thing. I noticed here today, I wrote to myself: an exception for Mass - yes. And another Member will say three more benches that the exception for Mass - no. So we listen to the experts, make exceptions? Who will be responsible for this? An exception for New Year's Eve. Again. Well, it's good to hear, I understand the motives, of course, in terms of some rationality or reality of that everyday. But if we approve of this place, such an exception, and the numbers get worse, then who's gonna be responsible? Government, Minister of Health. I don't know. So we're gonna listen to the experts who say, not the exception? Isn't it? Or we'll do it with healthy common sense or intuitively. But he can't just pay both. I can't get rid of it, and it's nothing against criticism, critical thinking, critical questions. I'm here myself, intersecting ministers repeatedly, even if I'm a government MP. But I just miss it, colleagues, the responsibility. When I just say "A," then it's "B," and I'm responsible. If I'm not responsible, I can actually say anything. Because whatever happens then, I can always change my previous statement in some way, because I don't have the stamp that's in there forever. [[17.30 hours]] And since I've been asking about the intercessions and I keep asking, I'd like to ask the Minister two questions, because I think that's what the Chamber of Deputies is for to ask the members of the government. The first question that citizens often ask me, and he partially answered it, what everything cost, government in an emergency can do what can not be done when the emergency is not, or what can be difficult to do. I have found three things so far - restrictions on the free movement of persons, work obligations for students, rules for critical infrastructure entities. But I'm also concerned with the other measures in general, explaining after a shovel, what all that government can do in this period effectively or more effectively, what, if we were done today, it can't do and what the consequences are. That's what I think the audience, the citizens deserve to know. The other question. According to the Minister, what is the outlook for further extension of the emergency situation, because we can extend it by a maximum of 30 days, for which there is a request. What's going to happen in 30 days and what's the estimate of how long we're gonna keep this going on? It's also partly an answer to the fact that if we extend the place for thirty days by two weeks, we'll meet here again and we'll extend it again and again and again and again and again. It has some kind of view, I call it the light at the end of the tunnel, I said I wouldn't say the term today, so I'm going to tell it what the view is about the emergency conditions for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u37	Mrs Olga Richterová will now appear and Mrs Helena Válková will be the last to be prepared. I don't have any more applications yet. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u38	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I'm probably the only one here today for the pirát. We really are not the ones who would like to stretch this out in any way. At the same time, however, we allow ourselves to take our summary of the emergency situation a little as well as a view of the Czech health care as a whole. Because we're in a situation where it's not just a matter of how logistically vaccination can be handled. There I have very specific questions for the Minister, specifically calculated, what it means, how to arrange for us to have about 800 vaccination teams to handle it. But I also have questions about how health care will look next year. Let's do this. The point is that we are in a situation where, unfortunately, our government instead of dealing with big things focuses on small things, it is called micromanagement, instead of the overall view, the view is often focused on details. And I think that's the example of this super-hygiene proposal for a super-office that could track us on cell phones that would actually take over the government's powers, a huge responsibility. And then the question is, of course, how is this supposed to save us, how is this supposed to help fight the covid? And then there's the lack of capacity, the attention to setting up the finished logistics, the tightened capacity prep for vaccination. I'll say it right away. The point is that a logistics operation for 6 million people is simply no small thing, we are well aware of that. But we want to know, in addition to this plan, which we are persistently asking, how hospitals and health care will work in general next year. Why? Because a number of surgeries, a number of surgeries have been postponed, and we're also interested in how you prepare funding. Because health care is covered in Czech health care so called. the payment decree, but it is not intended to do so, it is not set so that in 12 months next year, 2021, the deferred care for 2020. Why am I pointing that out? Because these are things that the government should now actively prepare to have our distribution and vaccination teams on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to work with the fact that, as vaccinations are under way and the situation improves, the delayed interventions will be underway and it will be necessary to ensure that health care facilities do not hesitate because they have unclear funding. There's also a number of other things where the question marks would be. But if I sum it up, it's about things where managerial dilettanteism manifests itself. And one striking, very clear sign of this managerial failure is that the Prime Minister did not get a professional vaccination coordinator. That's something we absolutely can't explain how that's possible. This dilettantism is then crowned with false information on the Prime Minister's program, Hi, guys. This is information to store the vaccine. It is contrary, completely contrary to the manufacturer's recommendations. Really, Prime Minister, the thermobox vaccine won't last six months. And now for the maths. To show how big a logistical task this vaccination is, we're going to give it a little bit of an idea. The point is that they are supplied in large freezer containers with vaccines from Pfizer, which should come in the largest amount. And please, just listen carefully. The point is, that one container is the recommended way for 4,875 people, but they need to be inoculated in 30 days. That means, to the one container with a vaccine of 160 people a day, seven days a week, Saturdays and Sundays, eight hours a day without a break, that means 20 people per hour, and that means three minutes per person, including arrival, completion of formalities, removal of clothes, farewells and then 30 minutes waiting in the waiting room. Why am I saying this in such detail? To make it clear to everyone that this means the need for paramedics and administrative staff on a separate team to each of those vaccine containers. Now what's the quantity? This vaccine should reach us in 2021 with a contract signed with the European Union of 4 million doses. Four million doses converted into those numbers are 800 containers. This is 800 such logistically precise operations that are needed. This cannot be arranged within 30 days, what it is possible to apply after the container is opened, in the practice doctors' offices. Even large hospitals will have trouble vaccinating the entire container in 30 days. Now imagine if there was a mistake, if some big hospital got two of those containers. I want to show on all of this that this is a very precise management logistics task that cannot be done well without precise preparation with delegated people. I have not heard a single explanation explaining why he himself is the coordinator of such a difficult task. And I can only assume the only explanation that would really explain why, in a situation where a country needs to solve a whole bunch of problems from economic to precisely these, that this extremely complex task wants to take on its own shoulders, I see nothing but management failure behind it. And now, as to how the cooperation works, the revered cooperation with the opposition. I am very sorry that I have to go back to something that is the principle of management. But the Department of Health has once again ceased to publish entries from the working groups. The last one arrived from October 5, 2020, it's a summary for September. The minutes from the working groups, the Minister's advisory groups, are intended to give us a glimpse at least of what the experts hold, what they recommend, and what the government decides accordingly. But we don't have access to it. And that is my first question, which I would very much like the Minister to answer. Minister, will these entries be published? [[17.40 hours]] And the second question is about the emergency. Here, it often sounds what would have happened if it hadn't been approved. But according to our legal analyses, it can be announced in turn again, but more closely, more precisely defined, for example, with the PES measures, so that, directly in the announcement of an emergency state, there is predictability, so that each of us, citizens of this country, knows what awaits us in deterioration and improvement, so that it does not depend on any reason. And the second question...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u39	I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so that the lady may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u40	And the second question is brief, Minister. Are you planning such a narrower, more accurate announcement of an emergency that would set out the measures and, at least, the frameworkal compensations so as to be predictable and secure for citizens? I would very much like you to answer the question on the minutes and the question of a more precise definition of the emergency situation, a more legally purer one. Thank you for your attention and your responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u41	And lastly, Mrs Helena Válková is enrolled in the general debate, so far I am not registering another application. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Traditionally and this year, perhaps for the last time, dear colleagues, I want to reassure some of you, because we have heard a number of concerns about non-compliance with fundamental human rights and freedoms or their restrictions, so I will also use my mandate as a Member, but also as a Human Rights Commissioner, to draw your attention to the fact that there are a number of working bodies, advisory bodies, such as the Council of the Czech Government for Human Rights, which have prepared many documents from spring to now, from which I would like to mention four. And I'm not going to tell you their content, you can look them up on our website, and that's why I'm speaking here from this position. The documents they were involved in... But I can't talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u43	Yes, so I will ask for peace in the Chamber so that the Member can express herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u44	And not only did those who vote yes or coalition, coalition parties, or those who support politics, the current government policy, but, of course, those who vote opposition, experts who deal with the specific topics that I will continue to talk about. And it's worth reading, at least in the briefest form. So it is the Senior Desatero for times not only of coronavirus, because we know that seniors often reduced in the first wave only to care objects, which some of them carried very badly and then their mental and health condition deteriorated. Ten recommendations for families and children, which is a document that has been aimed precisely at protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of children, which, even at this time, are fully entitled not to be harmed, were not neglected and, unfortunately, sometimes abused, because we have noted that the families at risk of domestic violence were exposed during the first wave of risks that, logically speaking, could be assumed, but which were not sufficiently preceded. Then it was, perhaps, that it would surprise you, the Technology Desatero for times not only of coronavirus, which aims at how modern technology on the one hand helps and develops sharply in times of crisis, be it war catastrophes, natural disasters, or even pandemics, but, at the same time, it essentially divides a certain part of citizens just because they can't keep up with the modern technologies, so there is a double disadvantage for them, social isolation. Next, I will end with the last, it is the opinion of the working group of November this year to protect the rights of older people on the so-called triage, perhaps you have heard it, it is a matter which has also been presented in media terms, how to sort in the event of a lack of, for example, those devices in hospitals helping to breathe patients with better prognosis or worse prognosis, depending on their matrice year, which is, of course, unacceptable. So, not only did the task force take a position on this, but also a recommendation. We discussed all this at our last meeting on 10 December, and of course, the Government Council adopted a number of recommendations on this. The Human Rights Council. During that time from spring to now we have sent out, and when I speak, I mean working bodies, I signed it, but it was the result of the work not only of people who are and support the current government, it was experts who participated and which, fortunately, I have in these working bodies of the Human Rights Council or the Gender Equality Council, so we sent out letters, you know some of them, the results. For example, the Ministry of Health. At that time, the Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam responded very quickly; it was the presence of fathers in childbirth. Then it was the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where we pointed out, among other things, that I will be specific, that even in socially excluded localities there is a need to continue social work in vulnerable children even during pandemic times. At the Ministry of Justice - visits to prisons, for example. I'm not gonna do the math and stall. As such, the common denominator of all these documents goes on as a red thread warning that the government must proceed and look at everything through the optics of proportionality, so that it should not unduly interfere with fundamental rights and freedoms. So these materials are now collected just before the government's meeting on Wednesday, they were sent yesterday to the government, they have them again, so don't worry that the government would not have any treasures available and will not respect them, in which all the activities of its advisory bodies are summarised precisely in the area of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. [[The noise in the room persists.]] And last but not least, I'd like to point out that we also have one issue that we'd rather not talk about, it's such a taboo, so I'm gonna break it. Not only senior establishments are establishments where infections can occur because they are constitutional establishments. We've got prisons here, too. And I have to commend the Prison Service, which has made the utmost effort to ensure that, within the first wave, the outbreak in prisons doesn't exist. I myself was very surprised when I compared it to developments in other advanced European countries. They did it. Of course, they could no longer prove a sharp rise in the second wave of convicted, accused, but mainly convicted, but not even members of the Prison Service. [[prevent]] [[The noise in the room is very strong.]] What are the figures for December 14, 2020? For example, here we currently have the number of positives in our prisons 560, cured 819, employees 324, cure 1 067. And these are all numbers that evolve unfortunately not downwards, but upwards. And I wouldn't burden you with the numbers you've heard here, but the situation in these devices is that we need an emergency condition that allows us to take precautions to ensure adequate care for these people. We have condemned them, justifiedly, by the final decisions of our independent criminal courts to prison. However, we did not condemn them to a health penalty, not to say life-threatening. And prison capacity -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u45	I will interrupt you, Madame, because there is really a lot of noise. So you're a woman, you're a lady, so I have to step in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, I'm coming to the end, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u47	Not that I don't approach emancipation, but of course it's been too much. So please calm down and let the lady of the house speak! Calm down, please! There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u48	I'm on my way to the end. This prison is like the last bitter but dot and warning. Of course, I am talking about this because I can imagine the reaction of our public, when people who have been convicted and who are also infected should go into the tense capacities of civilian hospitals. And the capacity of prison hospitals, I won't read them anymore, is approaching the state of fulfillment as well. So if we do nothing, we will not create an emergency situation as an environment - I would like to stress it here and perhaps also follow up on Mr Nacher, because his question has been raised here for the Minister of Health, who will surely answer, but I must point out that it is not only that when we have an emergency situation, we may need to limit the outing or the free movement of people outside, but in light of the last decision, surely you have not forgotten them, the Municipal Court in Prague must be cautious even in the case of nationwide bans. Like shutting down restaurants, gyms and other similar facilities. I'm not sure at all, but I'm pretty sure as a lawyer, it wouldn't stand up to the Constitutional Court, but there are different opinions. I think the emergency situation will allow us to take such decisions safely, constitutionally, if necessary. So it starts with human rights. The government has enough evidence to respect them, and it is up to it to decide whether the measures it takes will be appropriate. And I believe that, and I want to believe that it's always measured very highly on the lab balance. Because it is nothing less than the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens. And it ends, I'm sorry to say it ends in prison. Who will pay compensation to the survivors if the worst were not the capacity of prison hospitals? And civilian hospitals refused? I don't want to think of the worst. So I'm done. I think the emergency is really just an environment, it doesn't mean we have to shut everything down. I respond indirectly to a fellow speaker myself. Unlike her, I'm not at that age when I still have 50 years of full life ahead of me, so I could be even more sorry. But I think that here the principle of solidarity to those who are worse off in health and who would be infected and never be able to use any way of life just because of our selfishness should play a primacy. That's why I'm in favour of an emergency. I will, of course, vote in favour of the 30 days, and I believe that of the 30 days, the government will use only the minimum necessary for the most drastic measures. And if we are disciplined, perhaps, perhaps I am not too naive an optimist, at the beginning of January 2021, we will be able to visit some facilities that we can no longer visit under emergency conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u49	That was Mrs Helena Válková. I would like to ask the House once again for peace, because indeed the noise was great and let us be gallant towards women and ladies so that they do not have to exert themselves so much. Now, of course, the men are coming. I have two applications from here to the general debate. Mr Lubomír Volný will be the first to speak and I will then ask Mr Martin Kupka to prepare himself. These are the last two applications so far in the general debate. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to sincerely and wholeheartedly thank all the doctors and doctors, medical personnel, men and women, firefighters and firefighters, police officers, policemen, soldiers and soldiers, workers of the critical infrastructure of the state, all those involved in combating this problem that we have. I'd like to thank them, wish them a merry Christmas, a happy new year. I would like to wish you a merry Christmas, a happy new year not only to your colleagues here in the House, with whom I very often disagree, but I hope you will celebrate a nice Christmas and a new year, but basically to all the citizens of this country, because exactly what we need, those moments of happiness, that is the merry Christmas, and exactly what we need to end this epidemic is a happy new year. The second thing I'd like to say, I've made a commitment here to be such a critical element in this vaccination debate. As my colleagues have said, I hope that the debate on vaccination and any government campaign will be inclusive, that it will not promote just one opinion. That it will also get to information such as that, after the first round of CDC vaccination, there are 3,000 people in a state in the United States who would not be able to do so. That's 3 percent of the people who are in a condition after the vaccination that we couldn't use the word "work." We can understand, of course, that this has nothing to do with the vaccine, we can learn that it is related to the vaccine, and I would like that the government's vaccination campaign to be objective so that it is inclusive, so that only the experts who will promote it and insult their opponents appear on television, because at this time of Christmas I will allow you to really point out that the more aggressive the campaign will be towards people who are afraid of vaccination, the less effective it will be. I ask you, Minister, to make sure that this campaign is truly inclusive, that people who have critical views will also be invited to the debate, so that citizens of this country can make a free and informed decision. So they don't feel like they're being driven in a direction they don't want to be driven in. So once again, dear colleagues and this country, merry Christmas and a happy new year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u51	Since it's Christmas, I didn't bring you to the point in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So now Mr Martin Kupka will be the last to appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u52	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have witnessed today's useless and stupid attack by the Prime Minister on the opposition, in my opinion, that we are not bringing anything, that we are just criticising. So I took my time, and I just compared everything that brought about in the period of the critical state of the opposition as concrete proposals for solutions, concrete proposals for improvements, and I'm going to talk about them here. If we're talking about what's the biggest foot-cracker for the government itself, it's the government itself. If the public is to respect the measures, and now it is really about respecting them, taking them, of course, with the necessary degree of discomfort and really exclusivity against the normal life for itself and submitting to them, it must be understandable, measures that have a head and a heel, and measures that do not contradict each other. If they're not like that, that's exactly what I'm talking about, that means the government is screwing itself over. The "dogs" case. We don't really know how many there are anymore, how many puppies they have. Looks like the government almost opened their own dog breeding plant, but it's forbidden. So what's the point of all this? Only that the public is losing confidence. It is much more difficult to respect any measures when he loses confidence. Well, then how can an emergency situation help people to comply with these measures with greater discipline? Of course, it has nothing to do with it. AntiCovid team was formed. Marek Výborný here today presented the Christmas challenge, AntiCovid team KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09, and the purpose of this Christmas call is to show again the concrete proposals, the concrete measures that we recommend. [[18.00 hours]] We came up with the compensation bill as a solution for those that the epidemic really put in their knees so that they could get up and the economy could start. In fact, the answer to the compensation law is uncertain. Other concrete steps to increase the compensation bonus in the current situation. More concrete steps to speed up the whole payout of these particular aids, because we are still running into obvious bureaucracy. And finally, we're getting to the key point for starting out so that we don't just keep moving in the brake mode of the gas, and that's vaccination. Since summer, we have asked the government to come up with a concrete proposal on how this truly national action can be managed, because it is undoubtedly in national interest to go through this as quickly as possible, but also as quickly as possible. And if the Prime Minister said today that we are not behind, it is quite conclusive that we are slipping and that, unlike other states, our vaccination strategy is much less specific, much less sophisticated, and if we can look beyond the borders and see how the vaccination centers are created there, then the vaccination centers should be developed at our hospitals by now. Yes, individual regions are starting to struggle to help the government in this regard so that vaccination can really be managed in the Czech Republic. But it will depend on the fact that the wider structure of society will really be involved, that the administrative background of this step will also be managed, which has almost not been discussed. And from the hospital's response in the course of the testing, already large, there's a clear response that we're obviously being pushed by a shoe in that administration. So these are the concrete proposals that we have also put into this Christmas challenge, and we are asking that the government really, really, really step up in this area, but we are ready to help with that. Only very briefly, in those five minutes, several very clear concrete recommendations and proposals were made, which, after all, the Prime Minister admitted, the government heard in part and implemented many of them. That's good, but please, why isn't she willing to cooperate more with what comes from the field of expertise and the AntiCovid team? It is clear that under these circumstances, it is almost impossible for us to support an emergency without the government answering these important fundamental points. This would be difficult to justify to ourselves that we will again give such a word and such a vote for a actually uncertain outcome, for steps that have not been justified and when the government has repeatedly not responded to our calls. Thank you very much. I believe I have explained what is going on with AntiCovid's team and the opposition's. These are concrete proposals for improving the situation, not for destruction. Well, I'm afraid she's letting someone else do it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u53	I don't have anyone logged in to the general debate, so I'm gonna take a look around. No one's reporting, so I'm done with the general debate. The interest in the final word was already expressed in advance by Minister Blatný, so you have room for the final word. Otherwise, the rapporteur will also be given the floor. You're not interested. Okay, so then we'll proceed to the vote. However, we don't know how long the Minister will have it for, so we don't have to rush. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, for a short time. I join in this, too, and I have repeatedly invited all representatives of political parties across the political spectrum to discuss within the working group at the Ministry of Health, and I believe that these actions will eventually join together today, because we are all interested in working together. I'm only going to answer very briefly about the few specific details. The detailed methodology for administration of Pfizer will be available to the government on 23 December and will subsequently be available to you. The public, because there was a question of when it could be vaccinated, so I just repeat that it will be the first time since February. Until then, people who are hospitalized, who are in senior homes or who are medical professionals in those hospitals that are dedicated to the backbone network and vaccination centres are vaccinated. Specific question for the vaccine. The vaccine lasts six hours in the diluted state, five days in the refrigerator temperature, and six months in the cooler, which is also a transporter, 30 days in the freezer. When I'm talking about comparing the emergency situation to the situation without emergency conditions, I'm just going to repeat, because it was said here as another question, that without emergency conditions it is not possible to limit movement, it is not possible to use the rescue integrated system, it is not possible to use the help of students and others, and there are also a number of restrictions, which basically make it impossible to apply those measures across the country. Business services definitely need compensation. And it's a question that's not for the Minister of Health. However, I agree with you. As far as the outlook for the development of the antiepidemic system is concerned, it is then prepared to be at the turn of the year, as I said from the start, and, among other things, it will also include us all knowing what the difference is when the category is and is not an emergency state. Specific question for vaccination. As far as Pfizer vaccines are concerned, when about 280 people are vaccinated daily, then we are able to use vaccines, in one center I think, so we are able to use vaccines that will come to us in the coming months, which means that we are able to inoculate these vaccines. Of course, there isn't just one team in the center, there are always a few. In conclusion, then, let me summarize that the current situation really is that we need an emergency situation. Please and I ask you for support and assistance on behalf of all people. Even those who agree, even those who disagree. And I would like to say that however excited the debate is sometimes here, I am extremely pleased that we are living in a country where we can discuss everything so openly within the Chamber of Deputies and, after all, even in a social debate at all. So I'm glad we can be here together, I'm glad we can talk like this, and I'm begging you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u55	Now only the priority rights, because we are out of the debate. Mr. Marian Jurečka volunteered and then, on behalf of the Pirates Club, Vice-President of the Lukáš Černohorskýý Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u56	Thank you. I'll be brief. There are two government ministers here, especially Minister Blatný was here, he listened almost the whole time, and I was trying to say for us certain conditions so that we could at least vote in favour of the option of extending the emergency situation to 8. 1. In terms of whether the government is therefore willing to increase compensation for entrepreneurs. You said it was close to you for you, but if there's any clear concrete promise that the government would do it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u57	So far, the last application - vice-chairman of the Pirates Club, MP Lukáš Černohorský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u58	Thank you for the floor. My colleague, Mrs Richterová, said here that there aren't actually working group entries. So one of the steps that should follow would be to start publishing the minutes from the working groups so that we know at this point what you were actually deciding on. Plus, please... Don't yell at me from the stage or from the audience. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] At this point... Thank you. The pirát, along with STAN, have sent their deputy to the task force, but they haven't met until now, so maybe it would also be good to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u59	I have no further application for a debate, so I will convene Members. I'm gonna sing. We will take the vote. I will therefore now ask the rapporteur, Mr Vít Rakušan, to tell us what the proposals for voting are. I know that then we have some motions for resolutions. So just tell us what the proposals are, because we're going to - if there's two or more, we're going to make an indicative vote for the start. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I believe that there is no need for an indicative vote, because at this point there are only two proposals. This means the original government proposal, and then it's the counterproposal of the KDU-ČSL club, which proposes extending the emergency situation to 8. 1. Well, from my point of view, it doesn't have to be technically voted. There's still...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u61	Yes, that's right, because we only have two suggestions. We will vote on the counterproposal first. Yes, please. Mr. Jurečka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u62	I can make it simple. Because there was no clear signal from the government here, neither from the Prime Minister nor from the Minister that the government would be willing to guarantee an increase in compensation for businessmen, in which case I withdraw the proposal for January 8th, because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u63	Yes, so we're going to vote on one single proposal. That way, however, we can proceed directly to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Yes, I'm sensing an application for check-out. I'll check you out, sign you all back in with your... Mr. Jan Skopeček, spare card number 11. I've already checked you all out, sign up with your voting cards. So we will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'm gonna do it again, because this is really about every vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period by 30 days'. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 104 Members registered, for 55, against 29. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I will now ask the rapporteur, we have a resolution here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have been looking forward to being in the finals, but the KDU-ČSL motion for an accompanying resolution has yet to be made in the debate. Mr. Chairman Jurečka... Sorry, it's a joint proposal KDU-ČSL, ODS, TOP 09. My colleague Jurečka has asked me to put the resolution to the vote after the points, so I will allow myself to read the resolution on a case-by-case basis, and then I will ask you, Mr President, to begin the vote on each item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u65	Yes, I agree. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u66	Thank you. First of all: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to present without delay an elaborate strategic vaccination plan, including an information campaign, not only for the individual priority groups. This plan must necessarily contain the precise organisational form of vaccination, the necessary IT provision, including the involvement of the municipal sphere with the necessary administrative support. We see vaccination as a matter of priority national interest. However, successful management of vaccination makes it conditional on the involvement of broad structures of society."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u67	So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 103 Members registered, for 34, versus 2. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u68	Thank you. Item number 2 of the accompanying resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government, in view of the fatal effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on businessmen and entrepreneurs, to present without delay the form of the drawing of announced 100% compensation for closed premises within both trade and services."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u69	So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 103 Members registered, for 45, against 1. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u70	Thank you. Point number three. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to no later than 4. 1. 2021 has prepared an increase in compensation bonus from CZK 15 to CZK 20 000 with effect from 1 January 2021, with the possibility to draw on an entrepreneur who is in insolvency and is not entitled to any direct assistance from the State. At the same time, it calls on the Government to prepare as soon as possible the legal form of the remission of the contributions of the CFI and to renew the Antivirus C programme, at least for the first quarter of 2021.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u71	So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 102 Members registered, for 45, against none. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u72	Item four. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to adjust the existing system of support for entrepreneurs so that their actual drawing/repayment is possible within a maximum period of 15 days from receipt of the request to the competent authority. At the same time, we call on the Government to reduce the administrative burden on the use of individual aids to the level of use of the declaration of honour and the data box for the identification of the applicant, and to verify the eligibility of the application, the state administration subsequently used data that entrepreneurs regularly provide to the relevant state institutions, in particular the financial authorities or the Czech Social Security Administration, and did not burden the applicant with unnecessary administration."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u73	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 103 Members registered, for 45, against 1. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u74	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government and the Minister of the Interior to present to the House, as early as September, a promised amendment to crisis legislation which would clearly regulate the rules of emergency and crisis management."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u75	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 103 Members registered, for 53, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u76	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Health to specify and publish the current parameters and criteria according to which the PES score is set, especially in the light of various forms of testing and other selected aspects."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u77	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, there are 102 Members, for 45, against 2. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And then there's point number 7 to exhaust the motion for an accompanying resolution. It reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to respect the views of the Minister of Health and to devote himself to government governance as a whole. Leave the vaccination strategy to the experts. It is only by doing so that you will contribute to increasing the already shaken trust of citizens, this key factor in managing the whole pandemic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u79	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 103 Members registered, for 36, against 22. The motion was denied. I ask, are these all the motions for resolutions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u80	Yes, Mr. Vice-President. This has exhausted all the proposals that have been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-002-002.u81	So I would like to conclude, I hope, on behalf of all our Members and Members, by thanking the employees of the House Office, all the employees in the House, it is also on behalf of the Director of the House Office, for the work this year, and also on behalf of all of you, the House's leadership, I wish you a wonderful Christmas and a happy new year. [[Let's hear it.]] We have discussed the 78th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with, and I look forward to seeing you next year.
