ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second day of the 49th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I just checked you out, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. I agree that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Dana Balcarová from 12.30 until the end of the negotiations for reasons of employment, Pavel Bělobrádek from 15-45 to 18.15 for reasons of employment, Petr Dolínek from 9.30 to 13 hours without giving reason, Dominik Feri within 12 hours - working reasons, Marian Jurečka - family reasons, Martin Kupka within 13 hours - working reasons, Tomio Okamura within 11 hours - health reasons, Roman Onderka - health reasons, Petr Pávek - health reasons, Pavel Plzák - family reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg within 12 hours - health reasons, Václav Votava - personal reasons. Members of the government apologize... Well, Mr. Plzák is here, canceling his apology, seeing him with his own eyes. The members of the government apologize: Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček within 13 hours - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. There. I'll ask you to take your seats. We should start today's meeting by discussing points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines have been met. These are points 252 to 257, House prints 502, 553, 572, 589, 622 and 643. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. I would remind you that at 12:30 we have a fixed vote point 295 to 298. At 2:30 p.m., we have a fixed point 375 - criminal prosecution of Mrs Karla Maříková, and 70, House press 841 - government bill, tax code, first reading. There. I now have two applications with priority rights, President Faltýnek and then President Rakušan. So, Prime Minister, please, you have the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall. We are discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Let me propose, on behalf of our club, changes in the agenda, basically in the spirit of our agreement last night, when we were breaking up here around 10:00 p.m. On this issue, I have bypassed most of my fellow club presidents with the fact that I would like to propose that we point No. 5, print 850, compensation bonus, also point No. 6, print 550, about the municipal police - both laws returned by the Senate, and point No. 76, print 866, tax on the acquisition of immovable property, first reading, discussed today, now in the morning, that is to say the first points of the sitting on Wednesday 27. 5. And also, because yesterday it did not actually happen to the last law that we have here in the legislative emergency from the Ministry of Health workshop, it is point No. 1, print 868, on compensation to persons providing paid health services, so that we place this item on Friday in that block where there are already fixed points. The labor code is actually the first one, and then the two points are in a legislative emergency, so it's actually going to be the fourth point. Thank you. Sorry. And I have one more technical request for a management meeting, but I say it so that all colleagues in the House know. It's a technical request. If it concerns the vote, the Prime Minister is right here in the room, he has a video conference with the premieres of other countries, and just in time for the vote, I'd like to take a break for a minute plus minus to make it to the meeting room. It's just my technical request to the management meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u3	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to thank you for yesterday's vote on item No. 379, which is the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the merits of Czechoslovak legionnaires. I appreciate the clear decision of the Chamber of Deputies to include the item in the Chamber of Deputies meeting, and I consider it an important signal, and thank you once again for that. But in order not to be a formal inclusion, that means that he will just be waiting somewhere in the system and waiting for us to get to him, and maybe he will never get to him, so let me suggest that this point be firmly placed as the first point of this afternoon's negotiations. Point No 379, the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the merits of the Czechoslovak legionnaires, as the first point for this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u5	Thank you. Next on the agenda is Mrs Černochová, then Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Prime Minister, I firmly believe that you are also following this debate on the agenda. If you were in the hall, I would turn to you and ask you if it seemed quite normal to you that your Minister of Government, the Minister of Culture, was in an article that was discussed here yesterday in our attempt to include this item in the programme with my colleague Janulík and concerned Israel, I called it the position of the Chamber of Deputies on relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel, colleague Janulík otherwise, passed his proposal, but you did not include it for a certain time and a day, so I will try today. And I really must say that I was very upset when I read that the Minister of your Government did not discount after the article on Saturday, on the contrary, pouring more oil into the fire and expressing himself to news server News.cz Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek in this way - Minister Zaorálek, who among other things compared the Palestinec to the Čech who had taken over the Němec in the past, said: It is our duty to stand up for the Palestinec if they are threatened with a similar fate which has repeatedly prosecuted Czechoslovakia in the 20th century. Ladies and gentlemen, if there's anything you can use the beautiful Jewish word chuffe, it's this. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, how is it possible that the Minister of your Government is willing to say something so absurd publicly in a newspaper article? I received a letter from representatives of Jewish organizations who are very outraged by this - I quote: extremely unacceptable and unacceptable for the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic to compare Nazi Germany and its occupation of Czechoslovakia to the behaviour of Israel towards the Palestinec. Moreover, such a statement grossly offends the memory of three hundred thousand tortured Jewish victims of German occupiers. He is extremely insensitive to Israel as a Jewish state. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Furthermore, representatives of Jewish organizations write: It is strange that an educated diplomat - meaning Mr Zaorálek, absent - compares the Nazi occupation with the preventive military operation of the Jewish state in 1967, which, however problematic, prevented further escalation of the conflict. Nor will the occupation of the Warsaw Treaty's troops from 1968 stand this way because it was an aggression of a foreign power that reversed the internal political democratic development in our country. That is not the case with the Palestinec. This isn't just about gross misrepresentation of history, it's about the use of first-floor and, in fact, lying -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u7	I will interrupt you for a moment, Madame. Quiet in the hall, please! If you have anything to discuss, go to the foyer. Allow your colleague to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u8	Dear Prime Minister, I ask you, in some way, to explain to the Minister the historical sequence, to the Minister of Culture, to the culture, to the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, and to continue not to disgrace the Czech Republic abroad with such unprecedented statements. Do you know what day it is today? Today it is 78 years since the important act, Operation Anthropoid, today 78 years ago, when an attack was committed on the Reich Protector Reinhard Heydrich. It is absolutely ironic that the Minister of Culture is acting like the biggest Nazi these days!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u9	Thank you. It's just, madam, if I haven't noticed your proposal for a fixed-point agenda, I presume. Does he have a number?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u10	Just like yesterday, Wednesday the third point in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u11	Wednesday, third point. Mr Munzar is also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u13	I'm gonna cut you off for a little while, so we can get this straight. We're discussing the agenda. Written applications shall be given priority. I will not allow the appearance or technical remarks which do not relate to the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, without my knowledge that President Faltýnek will speak with his proposal, I have also signed up for a change in the agenda, namely because of item 76, House press 866, which is the abolition of property acquisition tax. The real estate market has been waiting for several years to abolish this tax and for several weeks to discuss this proposal specifically, and I therefore propose - and I ask President Faltýnek not to enter into this - and wait for several weeks for the cancellation of the tax to be discussed by this particular government proposal. [[appointed near the rhetorical site consults a member of the government]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u15	I'm really asking for peace in the hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u16	I propose to include this point either this afternoon after the points already included, or Friday after the points already included, so that we can discuss this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u17	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please once again - in agreement with the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mr Faltýnek, I amend my proposal and I propose that paragraph 379 be included firmly for next Thursday at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u19	Thank you. Mr Luzar, then Mr Birke, is also applying for the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate my proposal yesterday to move the first reading of House Press 280 on advertising regulation as the first item of the first reading during this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u21	Yes. Mr. Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will respond to - and I propose a new point, and that is nothing but a written or verbal apology from Mrs Černochová to the Minister of Culture for being a Nazi. In connection with my name, I've been confronted for 50 years that I'm a Nazi. [[He speaks very strongly, very loudly.]] I'm allergic to this! And if you're gonna yell and insult that kind of thing, that's totally unprecedented for me! Please apologize! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u23	Thank you. With the replacement card number 16, Mr Nacher, with the replacement card number 17, Mr Filip, with the replacement card number 18, votes Mr Bartoš. [[Mrs Cernochová is asking for a performance.]] I am just reminding you, we are discussing the agenda, Madame. I can't allow you to perform, we don't have factual remarks. My colleague suggested a point. Are you suggesting another point? Are you suggesting a new point? If I allow you to perform, it's only that you propose a new point. The honourable Member proposes a new point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u24	I propose a point for the Minister of Culture to be Zaorálek apologized to all of us for the way he disgraced the Czech Republic with his remarks on the address of the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u25	With priority rights, Mr Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u26	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u27	I'm asking you once more to calm down! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u28	It's such a quick wake-up call. I'm trying to understand what I've earned this address for in the morning. I'd like to say something here that I don't know if the House knows. I could present to you here a statement issued by the German Government together with the Palestinian authorities from Haaretz magazine, and this is a German government that is known for having one of the most prominent positions in all European countries. Imagine a statement by representatives of the German Government with Palestinian authorities condemning the idea of anex. I can't imagine anyone doing this here. And that's Germany. I can bring you here a statement from fifty former foreign ministers, all very friendly ministers to Israel. Fifty who voted against the anexi. Could I bring you a statement from the U.S. Minister's candidate (?) Joe Biden. Jou Biden, who said that if he was elected president, he would cancel Jared Kushner's entire plan for the alleged peace process, because Joe Biden claims that the plan is essentially an extermination, a definitive liquidation of the peace process. Well, I can bring you the text. It's very fresh. And he said that if he was president, he wouldn't accept this plan and immediately cancel it. Biden now leads by 8 percent in fresh polls, as I looked at yesterday. So at least we should take this statement seriously as someone who can actually become president in November. Let me tell you something else. Mark Pompeo visited Israel on May 13th, State Secretary of the United States, and I can also read to you here Israeli diplomats who say that Mark Pompeo recommended that they postpone the implementation of this plan after July 1st, because they fear the consequences. That's what the American side and the state secretes say. The High Representative of the European Union, Mr Borell, said that although there was a complicated debate between foreign ministers, what they agreed on is that European states are to try to persuade Israel not to start with the annexation of Palestinian territories, so that each State can show Israel that such steps are very risky and dangerous, precisely because they are not respecting international law. For us, Czechia, it seemed to me that it was always very simple. The Czech Republic cannot, with its 20th-century experience, remain silent about the lack of respect for the basic international rules and where the force to occupy the territory is applied on the basis of references to what I don't know, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that soldiers are used. That's something we've had a very bad experience with. That is why I think it is entirely logical that the Czech Party will also tell someone with whom it has strategic partnerships, with whom it meets regularly, this is wrong. That this is happening in the form of a letter? It's a very common form. I read in the Czech media that this is something extraordinary, that it should be said face to face. That's the thing I've always said in the House myself. Diplomacy is often hidden, it is its essence, and it must be a large part of it from face to face. But that doesn't mean that this form is equally legitimately not used. I refer to the letter of 50 ministers. Among them are the great friends of Israel. It's just a standard form of communication. Nothing special. [[9.20 hours]] And one thing surprised me, because, of course, I also read the texts that relate to it, because I try to understand the arguments of the other party, even though I disagree with them, because I have been convinced my whole life that politics is actually reconciliation. We're here with different opinions, and this arena is a space where we're not supposed to kill each other, but we're actually supposed to make peace. That's why I'm trying to talk about it right now that I'm just not some Nazi, but I'm a person who's expressed my opinion on something that's been saying the same thing for decades, which is easy to prove. I'm not the one who changed his mind. I repeat it all the time because I believe that the road Israel is taking now is a road to the wall. And I even know that those who do that know that. And I feel it's an obligation to say it. In the text published by my former colleagues in Právo, I also read it very carefully yesterday, and I was surprised that they were saying things here, when you actually challenged me, I must say that they are clearly completely misleading. In that text, written by Mr Topolánek, Mr Cyril Svoboda, Mr Kohout and Saša Vondra, it is said that they do not understand why we are so upset or say something like we wrote in that statement, since this is only one of the types of debate that is going on in Israel. But that's not one kind of debate. This isn't about something that we're having a dialogue about right now. This is about something to begin on July 1st - occupation of territory. Hence the urgency. It's not something that develops in different ways. This is something that threatens to develop into concrete steps that will mean the anexi of a third, half of Palestinian territories. This space becomes completely senseless for some future cohabitation, and that actually denies the idea that we have always claimed. And I have repeated the idea of a two-state solution to Israeli partners, including today's Prime Minister Netanjahu, many times, to President Rivlin. Rivlin always had such a special attitude, a peculiar one that I respected, that in fact one would want to stand with the arab, the Žid together. It's probably a very difficult thing to realize, of course, but I respected it because I know what he meant. And he meant it honestly, arab are supposed to live together here with us. But otherwise, everyone officially knew that a two-state solution was almost an official position, even Prime Minister Netanjahu never told me that no, they never said openly that they were rejecting this option because they couldn't show that any other was possible. Well, what's happening today is actually a diversion. So it must be said openly, where Israel is going. And then there's one more thing in that article that I'm talking about, which I also find very unhappy, and that's when those ministers are writing about - how it's there - that this is actually the way they invite Palestinian partners to the table, and they should come to that table. Well, it seems incredible to me that they could have written it there, because everyone knows that Palestinec can never come to this table like this, that's just not true. That's not how you invite yourself to a table. When you tell someone that after 1 July you will occupy a third of its territory, and you will also choose the ones that are fertile, the ones that actually completely destroy any future cohesion of Palestinian territory. So those who read the text, I point out that there are statements that I think are indefensible in serious debate, and I'm surprised that they were used as arguments. My friends, I am prepared for any correct debate by those who are concerned. And what I said here today, here you'll find evidence that at this table, at this microphone, I said x-times. There is no change in attitude, nor is there any change in what I have been saying for Israeli partners. And I am, of course, sorry for the reaction that came to this, because it seems to me that there is a mistake if someone thinks that not saying such things means building a friendship with Israel. I am well acquainted with a number of Israeli officials, and I can assure you that they know that I have often told them things that have not been easy and pleasant at all, and we have learned to conduct this dialogue so that I felt that the other side is interested in it in this very form. And I even once told them: if I erase honey around your mouth, if I even perform publicly so that it will be ridiculous loyalty, then on that international scene, the Czech Republic will never help you like this, because it will not be treated as a serious partner in the debate about Israel. And I had a feeling, a strong feeling that the Israeli side realized this and took it that some servile servant was of no use to them. But someone who says things openly is able to discuss things seriously. This is the continuity of Czech foreign policy. Although we may have been critical, we have always rejected all the sanctions and various measures against Israel that have been proposed by the Council of Foreign Ministers, as I have done. One thing is criticism, but the other is that we did not support these actions against Israel, just as Minister Petříček does today. That's the continuity. We say these things, we can pronounce them, we can be critical, and yet we actually hold that the history of our relationships is centuries old, that it is extraordinary, that, as the legend in the Staron Synagogue says, here in Prague, there are stones from the temple of Jerusalem, which, of course, is a myth, but it is only one of the expressions of the close link that exists between Prague and Jerusalem. There's a lot of them, as you know. This is what I've always had in me. And I assure you that Israel has always been a centre of great interest to me simply because I was fascinated by the history of Israel. I'm glad I have a lot of friends there, but I have friends there that I can't say I agree with completely, and I feel like they're not mad at me about it, on the contrary. Our conversations make sense. So I'm sorry to have to use the terms that are being wasted in these debates today, but I feel like it's completely unnecessary. What I said is not surprising. I stand by it if I sign something like this, and I'm able to have a big debate about it here. If it's listed, I'm ready for it. What I signed, I will, my friends, defend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u30	Minister, we are happy to hold a debate here, a substantive debate on this issue, and I hope that the votes of the government coalition will be able to place this item on the agenda for this meeting. I consider the debate to be very serious, because this is not just about our relationship with the State of Israel, which is of course also important, but about the whole orientation of Czech foreign policy and its continuity, which, in my view, is to a large extent threatened by the gesture you made with the current Foreign Minister. To that serious debate, I'd add that what you're saying here is listening pretty well, and there's a lot of talk about peace and good intentions, but the optics you offered us here is completely opposite to what the reality is, what the history of the Middle East is, and what the history of the State of Israel is. From your sentences, it almost seems that the one who threatens peace, who is an obstacle to a Palestinian state, who is some threat to the future peace settlement in the Middle East, that it is the State of Israel. But that's not true at all. The Palestinian State did not come up with many other reasons than that Israel did not want it. And if the Izraelec listened to the good advice of leftists and other intellectuals and politicians from the West, that state no longer exists. If they listened to the majority will of the United Nations, the state no longer exists. If Israel listened to the good advice of some European countries that have a pro-Arab policy for their historical reasons in the long term, that state no longer exists. These are simply things that we in the Czech Republic have always understood, understood, and were ready to support the State of Israel in our foreign policy despite the majority opinion of our European partners and, of course, the majority opinion of the United Nations states. And that's the constant of Czech foreign policy, and that's why we had, and we have, I hope, above-standard relations with the State of Israel. And as a result, we contribute more to the peace process in the Middle East than all those people who have a full mouth of peace but are not prepared to do anything for him. Whoever really holds peace in the Middle East is the State of Israel. Whether left-wing politicians like it or not, Israel holds that peace only at the cost that it is ready to make sacrifices for it and that it is ready to fight as well. And Israel is not only fighting for its existence, Israel is also fighting for democracy and peace in the Middle East - and that means democracy and peace for us. And that's how we have to understand it, that's how we have to see it. That is why it is so important that Czech foreign policy retains one of its constants, and that is the persistent support of the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u31	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies now. Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, for family reasons Mrs Eva Matyášová apologizes for today's meeting, Mr Petr Bendl apologizes for this morning's work, she apologises to Mrs Helena Langšádlová from this day between 9.00 and 9.15 for personal reasons, Mr Lubomír Metnar apologizes for the whole working day, Minister Marie Benešová apologises for this morning's day. [[Minister]] Then there was one more apology. Mrs Karla Šlechtová apologizes at 9 o'clock for health reasons. I have the last application here. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u32	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is reporting for the debate. He wants to speak on this. So I took the opportunity to report back a little earlier, and maybe he can answer the question I'd like to ask him. I certainly honor the fact that someone can have critical opinions that are contrary to what we think, for example. But, Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u33	I'm gonna ask for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u34	I almost made a mistake because you interrupted me. I almost said, Mr. Foreign Affairs Minister. But okay, Mr. Former Foreign Minister, Minister of Culture, I'll tell you what really struck me the most about your letter. And I need to clarify that. And I'm saying it in a matter of fact and calm. It is our duty to stand up for the Palestinec if they are threatened with a similar fate, which has repeatedly prosecuted Czechoslovakia in the 20th century. Very often, historians say - I am not a historian - that it is very tricky to use historical examples in a different context. So what happened in Czechoslovakia in the 20th century, we all know that. Then let's take the first occupation. Democratic Czechoslovakia and totalitarian Germany. In that analogy, you say that you have a democratic Palestinian Authority, where the elections were last 15 years ago, and that is what a totalitarian state stands against when you compare them. Doesn't that look far-fetched to you from our ancestors' experience? Or if you compare it to 1968. The democratization process, if I use the language of the Communists, and against it, the entry of five armies of the occupying forces. You're comparing it again. It's not about whether you see a critical decision by the State of Israel or not. That's a different debate. I find this totally tense. Because you actually said that she was in this situation today, or that situation from 1 July, as you described here, reminds of the role of Nazi Germany towards Czechoslovakia, is played by Israel, and the role of the victim is the role of the democratic Czechoslovak First Republic, played by Palestinec. And to me, Minister, it seems really inappropriate and overstretched. Well, I'd like to explain that. I'm not taking away your right to a critical opinion. And I think Chairman Fiala was very clear about that. And it is a long-term phenomenon in particular of the left-wing European policy, and I respect it as a debate. But I really think this is way over the line. If you could either lead me out of a mistake or take back the analogy, because it's overstretched, inappropriate, and it doesn't answer. After all, the totalitarian state attacked democratic Czechoslovakia - and you compare it to the situation today in the Middle East. And I think the roles are the other way around. I am convinced that the state of Israel is a democratic country, the only one in the Middle East. And you're going to compare it to Nazi Germany, and then you're upset and amazed when my colleague might say it harder or harder than I say it. But I just don't like the analogy. And Mr Birke - how does he nod his head - does it seem to you that Israel today plays the role of Nazi Germany and Palestinians as a democratic Czechoslovakia? It is our duty to stand up for the Palestinec if they are threatened with a similar fate, which has repeatedly prosecuted Czechoslovakia in the 20th century. I think that's an unacceptable sentence. This is not about the criticism of Israeli government's plans. That's totally -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u35	I'm begging you not to shout at each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u36	This is completely out of the historical reality of Czechoslovakia. And if you don't feel the difference in the form when you sign some letter from 50 former foreign ministers... You know what the worst part about that letter is, the three of you? That you two are members of the government. And that, of course, confuses the public. Is that an expression of the position of the Czech Government or isn't it? I don't want to comment on the statements of former ministers. They have every right to do so, but they don't represent executive functions at the moment, and I feel like they don't want to. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe somebody else has ambition. But at this point, they don't represent an executive function. I've heard the Prime Minister's statement of your government who disagrees. And that's the confusion in foreign policy. When you're a former foreign minister, it's a different situation. Maybe not inside the debate in the Czech Republic - but today he is a member of the government, he is a member of the government. Perhaps you could be an agent of the government for foreign policy when we have such double rule in other departments to make it easier. But I don't want to be ironic because it's serious. And I would like that point to be placed firmly so that we can really seriously and seriously debate it. So I'm gonna do it again one last time. Mr. Secretary, does he really consider this analogy appropriate? I don't. It seems very unfair to us, the Čech and citizens in the first Czechoslovak Republic and to the State of Israel. I find it extremely unfair and extremely inappropriate. But I say, I do not give you the right to a critical view of the Israeli government's plans. But without that analogy, that letter would be much easier for your opinional opponents. This comparison is just too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u37	Thank you. The Minister of Culture will respond with priority rights. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I would really ask you to keep the sound level acceptable in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u38	I've been warned by my friends that we have a whole range of quite significant points, and it would actually be worth putting the point in order to talk about it very carefully. But I'm gonna try not to talk to you, and I'm gonna say it fast. What's the resemblance? I have the impression that it is completely simple and that it is even perceived by the vast majority of people in this country. The resemblance is there - and I experienced it once in 1968, and so did it in 1939 in Czechoslovakia, when it happens to you that the territory in which you live is occupied by force. Just someone who's a stranger will enter the territory you live in and occupy it with force. It's as simple as that. You can imagine the experience very easily. And it's just what I think the Czech Republic has to say about whether it has any honor in its body. He simply cannot agree with when a foreign state's territory is occupied by soldiers and force. And this isn't funny. I spoke to the Palestinec who described to me how in those parts of the territory where the Israeli army operates, or he could enter at any time, as they are awake at night - describing what the children's experiences are. It's just really military power, it's not funny. So I know how this is going, I know how it's going. And this experience is probably very similar to those who live there. So it's not an abstract speculation, it's a particular experience that's very similar and very similar regardless of the different historical parallels, so those people's feelings are so close to what we've been experiencing. So, you see, this isn't for a theoretical debate. It's that you talk to these people, and they're afraid of similar treatment and similar steps. And the principle that I think everyone understands is that someone comes to your territory, they're soldiers, they don't belong there, and they occupy it. So that's a simple answer to your question. And the other thing. You see, the seriousness of the matter is given by talking to important Israeli representatives - you may have heard that only 26 percent of the Izraelec agree with the annexation itself - but you are talking to important Israeli representatives, famous even as Šlomo Sand, and they will say to you: If this happens, then everything I have written and done here is nothing, and I will burn your books and I did not have to live here at all. Because then we're not going to build a truly liberal, democratic society like we wanted. So it's serious if it happens or not. And that's what it's worth to stand up for those who actually feel like Izraelec like something that moves society somewhere it shouldn't be. [[9.40 hours]] And I'll tell you one more experience. I spoke to a soldier who actually spent years on Palestinian territory as an Israeli soldier who worked there. And he told me - that made a big impression on me, too. I spent some time there, and this Israeli high officer there said to me, "We're doing it wrong. Over the years I've been here, I've realized there's only one way we should have done this long ago. Here, make sure these Palestinian guys get a job. They really want to, and if we can't help them with this, the result is that they do things that we don't like. Do you understand? So when you say it's on the right track, this is the thing you're talking about with the Izraelec themselves. That's the debate that I've been there and from which I have this experience, that you can just go wrong and you can go better. And that's the debate I've always had with people I've always thought of as my friends. And even with the Palestinec. Do you understand? I've had such a powerful experience, and I'm gonna tell you one last time to realize how strange this environment is. I regularly traveled from Palestinian territory to Israel, and there the Palestinian military service always handed me over to the Izraelec. And to understand how strange the environment is. I remember the situation when the Palestinec were handing me over to the Izraelec, waiting for me there as standard, at the crossroads. And when I came to the head of Israeli security, I wanted to shake his hand and he looked at me desperately. And I didn't understand what was going on, and then it hit me. He saw a moment ago that I gave my hand to the head of Palestinian security, and suddenly he couldn't shake my hand because my hand had just touched the Palestinec. Do you understand? It's completely irrational, completely incomprehensible! So this hard and incredible was often the effect between these two sides. I liked doing it, I assure you, through all this stuff. I tried to understand and I tried to help them. Everything I did, I did because I felt that the Czech Republic could help put an end to violence in this space. That's what I've always served, that's what I cared about. So that's why when the violence comes back, I feel obliged to say this is wrong, we're going the wrong way again, which leads nowhere. But I'm done, and I'd like it to be listed as a point, and the debate went somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u39	Thank you. Of course, I will always respect § 67 and allow for a priority performance. I would like to ask if we did not think about this, perhaps some of our fellow Members do not have the option and would like to participate in the debate, so let us decide. I'll ask Mr. Vice President, he checked in before I had this conversation. But I'd like the others to think about it a little bit. We're discussing the agenda! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u40	Yes, I'm thinking about it, Mr. Chairman. I also call for this item to be included in every speech, and not just for us who have priority rights to have a debate. But it is not possible for the Minister of the Czech Government to say the things he says here, and there is no response. I don't think that would be right. So let me have a quick reaction. Minister Zaorálek, when I listened to you, I came to the impression that for you there is a very simple Palestinec problem, and I do not question the suffering of the Palestinian nation, that it is very easy to reduce to the question of the current relationship between Palestinians and Israel. Maybe you've never heard of Palestine or Palestinian relations with other Arab nations? What is the relationship between Palestinec and Jordánec, historically? Why didn't there be a Palestinian state that you're so enchanted by here? Not to mention terrorism, all the contexts we all know. And when you say, "Everybody has to be clear, everyone in this country" - well, it's not clear to me. I'm not looking at it like you are! And the reason I came forward is a historical analogy that you have repeatedly used here, and you said: well, we all understand it, I have experienced the 68th in Czechoslovakia, and when they take away your country and when someone is occupying you - and you have compared it to the relationship between Palestinec and Izraelec. But that's completely sick, I'm sorry, twisted and historical optics. Are you telling me that Czechoslovakia, the socialist Czechoslovakia in 1968, issued an official statement that the Soviet Union does not exist, that it has no right to exist, that it needs to be trampled into the sea? That the Socialist Czechoslovakia in 1968 sent a terrorist commando to the Soviet Union and wanted to destroy the Soviet Union and that the Soviet Union simply to defend itself in order to preserve its territorial integrity, so occupied the Socialist Czechoslovakia? It's an optics that has nothing to do with history and reality! And if Israel is occupying any territory, it does so because it was attacked, that it had to defend itself, and that it creates a protection zone around it that only allows the state of Israel in the Middle East to even exist! I have always enjoyed the fact that Czech politics is reasonable in this matter, that we will save ourselves from these pointless debates. Unfortunately, I can see that I was naive in this, too. It's not true. We have to say these elementary things here. But please, don't use those historical comparisons that are dangerous, misleading and actually offensive! Offensive to our people, offensive to us. It's total nonsense, Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u41	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights. [[Noise, restlessness in the hall.]] Please, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, take it easy! One more time, please calm down! Don't yell at yourself, if you want to say something, you can say it outside!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor, I'll try to be as brief as possible. I'm just going to address Minister Zaorálek. Unlike a number of colleagues, this letter from two ministers and one foreign minister did not offend me, because although there are passages that I do not agree with, he undoubtedly asks very serious questions, very fundamental questions, and it is good that someone is asking these questions and we are looking for answers to them. But what I can't accept and where, Minister, I really dare ask you to take that word back, that's a comparison with our fate in the 20th century. I do not suspect that you are not an ally and a friend of Israel, which is why I ask you to realize that in the 20th century we were occupied by the two most monstrous regimes of human history. First the Nazis and then the Stalinist. And just to compare it with the situation in the Middle East, where Israel is the only democratic regime far and wide, is extremely offensive both to Israel and to our own history. I beg you, take those words back. Then the discussion can be much more relevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u43	Thank you. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just for a little while. I have a request, co-workers and co-workers, because at the moment, only those who have priority rights can express themselves, and I've been holding back the whole time, even though I have something to say to the thematics. Please refrain from your speeches, place a point on the agenda so that other Members can discuss it. It's fair to them, and I'm going to ask you for solidarity with those who can't speak now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u45	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u46	Colleagues, it's not outrageous what I said. It's outrageous what you said! For taking the liberty of saying and defending that it is not possible for foreign forces and soldiers to occupy territories that do not belong to you, for that you called me a Nazi? For the fact that no matter the different historical forms of how these things happen, when the essence is this, that people who live somewhere are children, women, they live there in houses, foreign soldiers come in and take over the territory and force them to have some rules that this, when it happens, actually the country that has experienced it, just has to say, This is not possible. This is a violation of the rules that form the basis of international coexistence. For saying that, I'm a Nazi? [[Highly, with an increased voice]] I think this is a scandal! Don't make a scandal out of my statements! Scandal is what you used against me! [[9.50 hours]] I've been saying something for 20 years! I am saying this clearly and I am convinced that most people in this country, the judges, will realize that when we have a rule - don't want them to do anything to us, so don't let them do it to others! [[They still speak with a strong, strong voice.]] When we have experienced this, we have a duty to say this in front of the world: soldiers cannot enter foreign territory simply because they claim to have any historical claims. That's what the Němec said! That's what the Rus say! That's what he always says! It's always the same! Some old historical claims will rise up and say, "We have a right to this country, and that's why we can send soldiers there! And whatever historical circumstances it is, it's always wrong! The violence against the territory is wrong! Diplomacy is a way to solve problems. And international rules must be followed. And the border, my friends, is the foundation of everything! If the country isn't able to protect the border, if, as Masaryk said, there's a struggle at the border, but not that you just let someone walk and march at the border. These people don't even stand a chance of defending their borders! And if I took the liberty of saying that, you're gonna tell me I'm a Nazi? You apologize!!!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u47	Thank you. President Michálek, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is such a phenomenon in social psychology as group polarization, which means that if two opinions conflict in the debate, the result is that people take even more extreme positions. I think we should take it easy right now. Everyone's got the media headlines, so we've already done one part of those speeches, but now we're talking about the agenda. And I wanted to ask. Indeed, let us decide whether or not this belongs on the House's agenda. And if this does not pass on to the Chamber of Deputies' agenda, I think that this is a question that deserves a debate on the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and we can meet it here with an opinion prepared by the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you, fellow Members, for considering this contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u49	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor. Oh, man, that makes it hard. The Minister won't take his words back, so I'll take back my original performance. Next time I try to be a peacemaker again, don't let me in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u51	Thank you. I don't see anyone logged in with priority rights, so first of all, a written application for the agenda, Mr. Bláha. Mrs Černochová will be ready, she still wanted to speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to perform at all this week, but after the launch, I cannot do this and I would like to ask you all - and listen carefully - to include an extraordinary point of Rent Commercial Space. In a moment, I will discuss what should be the subject, but I would like to place this point, the extraordinary, Rent Commercial Space, for today at 14.30 hours. What makes me say that? Here we are listening, and I acknowledge that you are interested in foreign policy, that you are not indifferent to what is going on beyond our borders, but I think that at this time we should talk as much as possible about what is going on with us after we have had an extraordinary situation here, when thousands of companies have closed their operations and until today they do not have resolved their financial situation in the context of a rental relationship. Most stores or landlords are in relation to tenants in the role of what will happen, how will be paid, and the tenant has absolutely no chance of deciding how it will be. Although we have prepared very much for these companies, I think a well-supported programme, by the fact that the state will involve fifty percent, we have de facto helped only those department stores, because tenants are being pushed back into things that you should know and that we should be talking about here, and, of course, together to find a solution to prevent it. I'll only read to you from a letter I personally received from a landlord who says: If the lease is due to expire before the end of 2021 - I note again, before the end of 2021 - the rental discount will be subject to an extension agreement. So that's how they set their houses. If you don't sign a contract for another five years, even if it doesn't end in a year, we just won't give you a discount on the rent. Other things are contrary to what we voted for, that most of the rent can be paid until the end of the year. They just give each other the terms that all the rent has to be paid. And they even write to their tenants that even though they won't reflect on the rent reduction request, it's every tenant's obligation to pay all the rent until May 22. And that's since they were shut down. In three months, when they couldn't do business, when they didn't make a dime, they had all the costs, including payouts, and the landlords don't care, they don't care, they don't care, they just care about their money. We've allowed them to postpone loan payments, they can extend the maturity of loans to these houses, yet these landlords treat tenants in such a way that no one dares to leave at all, write them a letter, because at that moment you're not entitled to anything. You're blacklisted, and no one's going to deal with this rent reduction with you. So once again, I beg you, let's put this point together. We're gonna help what we talked about yesterday. Yesterday we discussed that we were short of money for the municipalities, but the money would not be in those municipalities when we, in the first place, did not help the companies that bring the money to the municipalities, because if the companies went bankrupt because they had to pay for something they didn't use, they wouldn't be able to work anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u53	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes today by 10.00 for work reasons. The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes today from 16.30 pm to the end of the meeting day. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u54	I'd like to add some more. If it wasn't possible at 2:30 p.m., I'd like to put it tonight as the third point after all the things that are listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u55	Thank you. On the agenda of the meeting, Mrs Černochová, Mr Veselý will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm glad that the debate, though very emotionally, took place here. I was asked here to comment on my words. You see, what bothers me is that the Minister of Culture does not distinguish when he acts as a member of the government - as a minister - and as a citizen. As a citizen, let him have the opinion he wants. This Chamber of Deputies, on my proposal, on a proposal from Mr Bartošek, adopted a number of resolutions on the proposal of Mr Janulík, asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other members of the Government to clearly interpret the view of this legislature in custody of the State of Israel. Whether it was a sanction or a transfer of the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, whether it was the Temple of God's tomb or an opinion on a terrorist organization called Hamas. And I'm sorry that the Minister doesn't have the self-esteem here to say: I, as Minister, overreacted, as a citizen I am farther for Palestinians. [[10.00 hours]] So I'm going to meet Mr. Birke, and I'm going to apologize to the Minister for saying something about a Nazi, but as a citizen, I'm going to keep my point of view. You know, I also remembered the debate that was going on here in the last parliamentary term, and it was about Mrs Válková. She had that self-esteem inside of her. She apologized for saying she didn't do much for the Protectorate of Čech and Moravia, she repented and apologized! I want the same thing from Minister Zaorálek. Because, as many of my previous speakers have said here, it is something else to speak as a citizen and to speak as a citizen, and it is something else to present things as a minister of this government, who is bound by several resolutions of this legislature, from which, unfortunately, as Minister Zaorálek at that time as Minister of Foreign Affairs -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u57	[[He's coming in.]] Madame, will you suggest a point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u58	[[He's continuing his speech.]] - so also Minister Petříček, the current Minister of Foreign Affairs, is doing a good day. So I would like to say that we will probably not see any apology from the Minister of Culture, so I withdraw the motion for an apology from the Minister of Culture, but I leave and insist that the vote be made on the point that I proposed here yesterday - the position of the Chamber of Deputies on relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel. I propose this for today as the third point of the afternoon after those firmly placed points and I hope to see your support, because the debate that was going on here has confirmed me that this topic really should be discussed here and we should ask the representatives of our government how it is with Parliamentaryism in the Czech Republic, whether foreign policy is a matter of the Minister of Culture or whether foreign policy is a matter of the Government of the Czech Republic, as it stands in all laws. Of course, the Government of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and last but not least, the President. I am sorry that the debate here - and I hope that perhaps somewhere in the office, as has been said here, is listened to by the Prime Minister, because I think that he too is in this very difficult situation, that he must, in fact, iron the words of one of his ministers at various meetings, who will just from time to time break free and issue a statement that really raised me from the chair on the day we commemorate such an important act as the anniversary of the assassination of the Reich Protector Reinhard Heydrich and the heroic act of our parachutists. So in this context, the words in the parables of the history of the 20th century and Czechoslovakia really seem completely inappropriate to me. I apologize as a member of the Nazis, but I insist that the Minister does what he wants!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u59	Now, my fellow Members, we have seen how the agenda should not be discussed. [[Mrs Černochová outside the microphone notes that she has withdrawn the point.]] So be it. I won't allow any more applications. There are the last two entries, which are on the verge, that they have made it in time for the discussion of the agenda, Mr Veselý, Mr Nacher, to prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be material and short. I am here as chairman of the Foreign Committee of the House. I'll follow up on my colleague Michálek's words. We will deal with this matter on the Foreign Committee, at the next meeting on 11 June of this year. The rapporteur will be Mrs Monika Červíčková, so if you want to give her your views, you can, of course, take part in the meeting of the Foreign Committee. And I would like to ask for an amendment to this proposal by my colleague, Mr Černochová, so that we may be given the opportunity to discuss the matter on the Foreign Committee, and I give the counter-proposal to include this point only after the discussion on the Foreign Committee, and to be specific, in a variable week on Wednesday, June 17, as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u61	Thank you. I'll take that as a counterproposal for the vote. And the last enrollment is Mr. Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u62	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as an ordinary Member - the only way to speak is to propose a point, so I will propose a point of amendment to the Rules of Procedure. And I'm going to say something concrete, and that's renaming the preferential rights to exclusive performance rights, because what I've been through here for an hour, that's exactly it. For me, the priority right is that someone takes precedence in a queue of Members over others, not exclusivity. I voted for the point that my colleague, Janulík, suggested here, actually copying what Mrs Černochová said yesterday, for that time too. So vote in favour, and I don't think you should take advantage of that priority right, because then the other Members have no chance to participate at all. We've had an hour here, and so far, only those who have exclusive rights have switched, not priority ones. So much for my suggestion. And I would put it as the last point of the hearing today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u63	Thank you. I am simply pointing out that the Rules of Procedure do not use the term of priority right. It just says there's always a word given, and there's an exhaustive list of who's given the word. So you can call it whatever you want, priority, exclusive, same thing, no need to change the Rules of Procedure. So we will now deal with the individual proposals, as they have been said. First of all, there is the proposal of President Faltýnek. If there is no objection, we would vote on these proposals with one vote. I'll do it again. That we would begin today points 5 - print 850, 6 - print 550, point 76 - print 866, this is the acquisition of real estate. And then Mr. Faltýnek suggested that we put the press 868, paragraph 1, in a short hearing the proposal of the Ministry of Health, compensation for medical facilities, as the fourth point on Friday. If there is no objection, then we will vote with one vote. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on the proposal of President Faltýnek. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 40, 184 Members signed in, for 178, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now there is the proposal by President Rakušan to include paragraph 379 on the merits of the Czechoslovak legionaries first... He subsequently modified his proposal, so with his consent we will vote directly on the alternative in order to vote that he would be discussed next week as the first point at 11 o'clock, or after the completion of written interventions. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 41, 184 Members signed in, for 160, against no one. The motion was accepted. And now we're getting to the point that currently has 382 agendas on Israeli-Czech relations, respectively. Opinions on the observations of ministers, former foreign ministers and one existing. I would first have Mr Veselý's counter-proposal put to the vote, which proposes to include this point 17. 6. as the first point of negotiations, in a variable week. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 42, registered 185, for 177. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. So we have set this point firmly. [[10.10 hours]] Another proposal was Mr Munzar's proposal that we take point 76, House Press 866, the government amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act - we have already voted on it, we have put it firmly in place a short time ago. We've already got him firmly ranked third. So the MP no longer insists on his proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u64	Can I explain? [[Yes.]] Thank you, Mr President. As we voted on President Faltýnek's proposal, it is correct, we have it listed, but we are not sure that this will, as I understand it, be discussed. So, in case, for some reason, it doesn't happen, I suggest an alternative this afternoon after the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-000-000.u65	The proposal is voteable, but it would probably happen anyway. Let's take a vote. In the event that this item is not discussed during the morning negotiations, we propose paragraph 76, House Press 866, to discuss after the fixed points of the afternoon first. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 43 registered 185, for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Luzar's proposal is now here to include his proposal on the regulation of advertising as the first item in the first reading block to put it forward. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 44 registered 185, for 18, against 23. The motion was not accepted. Mr Birke's proposal is now here - an apology to the Minister of Culture, Mrs Černochová. Since an apology has already been made here, do you insist on voting on this point? You do. So it's a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for this point. Who's against it? In the vote order number 45 registered 185, for 50, against 18. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Černochová has withdrawn her point concerning the apology in the opposite direction. There is now Mr Bláha's proposal, which proposes to include a new item called Rent Commercial Space. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for this new point. Who's against it? In the vote order number 46 registered 185, for 66, against 3. The motion was not accepted. And then there is the last proposal by Mr Nacher to include a new item entitled the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 47 registered 185, for 28, against 28. The motion was not accepted. We've dealt with all the changes, and we'll continue with the amended agenda. Opening point
