ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-10-ps2017-055-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I just checked you all out, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards and possibly tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 57 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 1 July of this year. It is our 10th of July and our birthday is celebrated by colleague Marek Výborný, who is not in the hall, but at least we wish him a happy birthday at a distance. [[Let's hear it.]] We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of František Kopřiva and a Member of Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Does anyone else have a proposal to identify the verifiers? No one's checking in. I've called my colleagues from the lobby. We can vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 1, we are logged in at the moment 98, for 92, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr František Kopřiva and Mr Markéta Pekarová Adamová, as verifiers of this 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will now read the list of Members who apologized from today's meeting. So that's how it went down to A4, so it's gonna take a while. Ivan Adamec asked for reasons of work, Dana Balcarová working reasons, Jiří Běhounek working reasons, Josef Bělica family reasons, Petr Bendl working reasons, Stanislav Blaha working reasons, Žáček Blažek working reasons, Jaroslav Dvořák medical reasons, Jan Farský working reasons, Dominik Feri within 12 hours working reasons, Pavla Golasowská from 12.30 hours working reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček working reasons, Milan Hnilička working reasons, Jana Krutáková working reasons, Jana Levová health Zuzana, Vuzana Majerová Zahradníková working reasons, Ivana Nevludová personal reasons, Ladislav Okleštěk health reasons, Petr Pávek health Vrána, Pavel Plzák Šlechtová reasons, Věra Prochášková reasons, Karla Prochášek family reasons, Vít Rakušan until 9.30 hours working reasons, Jan Řehounek family reasons, Karel Schwačínek working Tureček, Antonín Staněk family reasons, Zbyk Zbyněk Stanjura, Zbyáněk family Vácha. From members of the government with excuses: Klára Dostálová health reasons, Jana Maláčová working reasons, Lubomír Metnar working reasons, Tomáš Petříček working reasons, Robert Plaga health reasons, Miroslav Toman working reasons and Lubomír Zaorálek health reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 55th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment can be proposed to supplement the programme, nor can the approved programme be extended. Just to be safe, I'll call in my co-workers from the lobby again. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 127, for 122, against no one. The agenda has been approved. Thank you. So now we're going to continue. Opening point number
