ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u1	48. Government Bill on one-off pensioner contribution in 2020 /German press 997/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Government bill under Government authority will be introduced by Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Before taking the floor, I will ask my colleague Jana Pastuchová, who is the rapporteur of this press, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I have a factual point here, but since the debate has not yet been opened, I cannot accept it. I therefore now ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for an opening word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly about this bill, which everyone knows, and so, as I follow the debate in this honourable Chamber, everyone has a very strong view of this proposal. There is no need to stress that this is an absolute priority for us. Pensions are low in the Czech Republic, I will just mention, almost a million old-age pensioners and pensioners have an old-age pension of less than CZK 14,000 despite record increases from previous years. Let me just remind you that when we took over the government in 2014, the average old-age pension was CZK 11,000, which means more than 4.5,000 less than the average pension will be in a few weeks. I would like to stress that this bill, which means the proposal to introduce a one-off contribution of CZK 5,000 for all pension collectors and payment in December of this year, is not a populist step. It is a compensation for inflation, which has been growing in an unprecedented way in the last 12 months and has been growing most since 2012. I think we can agree that during the past so-called coronation crisis, or during the previous first wave of coronation, everyone has been helped, and all those who cannot work are affected by this high inflation, and I think it is also fair. Just by choosing how to help pension collectors in recent years. At random, what we managed to change in the pension system. Perhaps the most important step was the parliamentary proposal by Mr Roman Sklenák, who changed the so-called valorisation mechanism. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I have passed a thousand for so-called old-timers, which means 85+. We managed to increase the basic salary of 10 per cent of the average wage. [[16.10 hours]] These are all steps that, beyond or beyond those so-called legal, non-legal valorisations, have significantly improved the situation of seniors and seniors and have led to an average pension of nearly 5,000 - or, depending on the date on which we take it. Whether we take it to the present or to the 1. 1. when the average pension will rise again by CZK 848 on average. There is often a debate here about why to increase pensions across borders or why to help all alike. I think we should help the weakest in particular. That's why the same amount, because if you have a pension of 10,000, 5,000 is worth different to that of 20,000. That's why I think this step will help the weakest. I know that during the discussion, or during the individual statements, steps have been taken to help only those who have a pension lower than the average pension. I can't imagine anyone with a crown more than an average pension wouldn't get that amount of $5,000. Do you think that would be fair? Someone who has a crown more, ten crowns more, a hundred crowns more, shouldn't they get that amount? That would be very unfair, and I think it would do more harm than good. Even today, in the debate on the previous points, there were suggestions that it should be even more helpful for businessmen to help entrepreneurs, small firms up to 50 employees. You know that the proposal to forgive social and health was one of the first ideas that I pushed through after declaring an emergency situation as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I put him through for six months, and the tradesmen were forgiven across the board. No one questioned this, although I think we can agree that not all businessmen were affected by the ongoing coronation crisis. We also helped all companies up to 50 employees, because it was an effective, fast tool to help small Czech companies. I don't think anybody questioned it either, and the whole debate was that the aid should be increased to the maximum for companies with a higher number of employees. I don't understand why there's a discussion in the seniors and seniors that's not fair. Once again, I think that the contribution of CZK 5,000 to help compensate for increased inflation over the last few months is a very good step, and it is an absolute priority for social democracy. I also firmly hope that this debate will help us finally to have a serious discussion on how we will implement pension reform in our country. Thirty years after pension reform is merely mentioned. I would like to thank all Members of Parliament who participate honestly in the Commission on Fair Pensions. I think we've come a long way. I think that most or their members are honestly involved in this discussion, and we will present our concrete proposal for pension reform in paragrafo in the coming weeks. Because I think that is really the most important question of how we will ensure fair pensions for all current and future retirees and pensions. To ensure that people who have worked their whole lives honestly have righteous and dignified pensions at the end of their lives. I think that this is indeed the fundamental function of the state to ensure that people who have worked their whole lives have paid a large part of their wages or the salary of the state fairly and honestly, so that they have a dignified and fair pension. If the state is unable to secure such pensions, I think it's up to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have promised not to speak for long. To me, this bill is an expression of intergenerational solidarity. Our seniors and seniors built our country, handed it over to us in such a state that we could continue to lead a prosperous and good life, and I think they prepaid their pensions. That is why I think that we should approve this bill as soon as possible, because we will all be old once. And I think those older generations among us deserve the so-called intergenerational solidarity. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u3	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take up her report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everything has already been said here by both the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I will just repeat briefly that this is a one-off contribution to pensioners amounting to CZK 5,000, which will be paid in December 2020. Again, I will repeat that a one-off allowance is not a pension benefit and will therefore be paid in a uniform amount to each eligible pensioner without any link to the amount of the pension. And what I am going to stress again, because I think that colleagues from the Social Committee, but also I, as chairman of this committee, will reiterate that this contribution will not affect entitlement to insured social benefits, because when determining the income applicable to the entitlement to these benefits, the contribution will not be taken into account and the contribution will not be the subject of enforcement of the decision, thereby strengthening the income level of the pensioners whose pension is subject to enforcement. She also said this to the Minister of Finance, but I will repeat it again, because I think we all get enough questions about this as Members. I would like to put an end to my speech as rapporteur and then join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. I have Mr. Miroslav Kalousek and Vice-President Tomio Okamura registered with priority rights. Please take your word for it. And then, my colleague Pastuchová, properly in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the veto, which was the motive of my signing up, let me, after all, give me a very brief response to the Minister's words when she promised us here that as Finance Minister, she would do everything in her power to ensure that the approved deficit of 500 billion is not completely exhausted. At that moment, I imagined a guest who would enter the restaurant, order five sirloins with six, and when they brought him five portions, he would say with a nice smile that he didn't have a penny to pay, but that he would really do anything to not eat all those portions, to eat only four. This is how the Czech government behaves. If it wasn't so dangerous, it would look like a monotypython circus comedy. Otherwise, allow me, on behalf of the ODS and TOP 09, to enter into negotiations under Section 91 of the Rules of Procedure and advance the veto on any shorter date than 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u7	Thank you, I'm registering this veto. We will therefore proceed according to a process which allows for the Rules of Procedure. Now Vice-President Okamura with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, what we have just heard here from the TOP 09 representative, in cooperation with the ODS, means to translate it into an understandable speech for citizens that the ODS and TOP 09 have blocked the addition of CZK 5,000 to old-age disabled pensioners this year. Because at the moment - and it fell here, so here it is - Mr. Miroslav Kalousek said that together with the TOP 09 together with the ODS, two MPs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure blocked the negotiations under Section 90, so that it made it impossible for all pensioners in the Czech Republic, old age and disability to receive basically CZK 5,000 this year, because we cannot discuss it. So here are ODS and TOP 09, the parties called. the demoblock, absolutely decloaking the way ODS and TOP 09 have now made it impossible for basically several million pensioners, including widow's pensions, to improve themselves. And we need to be straight about what happened here a few minutes ago, so I repeated it twice so everyone would hear it and everyone would realize what ODS and TOP 09 are and who they're defending and what kind of program they're promoting. On the contrary, the SPD has always supported and supported the increase in old-age, disability and survivors' pensions, so of course we will also support the proposed one-off payment of CZK 5,000. But giving poor pensioners one-off alms is an inadequate and unsystemic solution. Raising the lowest pensions is directly our duty to those who have worked their whole lives. The SPD therefore passed a law to the House six months ago, where we propose a minimum pension of the poverty threshold set for the Czech Republic by Eurostat, the European Statistical Office. On the basis of our proposal, all old-age and disabled pensioners - and this would also concern widow's pensions - would have a minimum pension of less than 15,000 net and only from this amount of credit. Of course, under the terms of the years worked and, in the case of disabled persons, also for those who have not been shown to be able to work. We in the SPD make it clear that no one who has worked for mandatory years should live below the poverty line. That's our moral obligation to our seniors. In no way does our proposal concern so-called. Inadaptable because there's a condition of years worked. But the trivial thing is that Prime Minister Babiš also applied for the legalization of a minimum dignified pension at pre-election events with retirement organizations. But the deed has escaped. Not only did he fail to fulfil his election vows, but he even votes against it, because the government of the ANO and the ČSSD took a negative position on the SPD bill, where we want to enact this minimum dignified pension. I really don't know what's wrong with a decent minimum pension. It is the European standard of several European countries, in many Western countries. In principle, it is not necessary to raise high pensions so quickly, but it is necessary to increase the low pensions in the first place. On the other hand, the state will save what it gives to the poorest pensioners for social assistance and also save the associated bureaucracy. The SPD movement is convinced that people who have worked or are disabled all their lives should not disgracefully beg for social benefits, but should have a basic dignified pension. However, as I have already said, the government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement persistently rejects the SPD proposal and even voted against it in the government, so it comes here with a negative opinion and wants to give poor pensioners only one dose. By rejecting the SPD proposal, the government confirms that it does not really want to increase low pensions. It prefers to keep pensioners in poverty so that they can enjoy a one-off contribution just before the elections, but it does not address the principle of poverty of pensioners at all. There's one other thing that's remarkable. The SPD's movement has long advocated the valorisation of pensions for all the same amount, not the same percentage as the government does. Because, as the government does, scissors open between poorer and richer pensioners, the cost increases equally to everyone. But the government is refusing to valorize everyone with the same amount. And now we see it's possible. But the government only wants to do it one time, so the poorer pensioners are beating the government again. The government writes in the explanatory memorandum on the proposal for a one-off contribution that this will immediately improve the income situation of pensioners. To that end, I repeat that we, of course, welcome any increase in the SPD, and, as I said, the SPD will, of course, support this one-off contribution, but again I stress that this one-off contribution will not pull the thorns out of their heels and rid them of poverty. It is simply necessary to adopt the SPD system law on minimum dignified retirement. It is enough for our proposal, which is already here in the House, to raise the government coalition of the ANO and ČSSD movement with the support of the KSČM hand. The government doesn't want to. In fact, he does not want to rid the disabled, elderly, and widowed pensioners of poverty. And that needs to be said out loud. So let's say why the other parties here in the House, including the government coalition of the ANO movement, the ČSSD and the KSČM, do not want pensioners to have a truly dignified income. There's a remarkable match from both left and right. There are regional elections ahead and after them there are parliamentary elections. Each government is trying to flatter the elderly before the election, but oddly enough, some minimal dignified limit to the basic dimensions is being rejected by all government parties. The reason is clear. Retirement workers are then dependent on valorisations and are then grateful for each addition, and yet many do not realize that this is just a blackmail and corruption instrument, because seniors should have pensions at a decent and minimal level automatically. And that's what the government should ensure, or at least adopt the law from the SPD pen. But then politicians wouldn't be proud to have added a pension before the elections if all pensioners had an automatically dignified pension. And where do you get it from in the Treasury? First of all, the state should ask for compensation for all the thieves who robbed this country. There is now a trial under way with ČSSD and ODS policies, which threaten up to 16 years in prison for stealing billions of crowns in the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region. And, for example, Mr Bakala, with the help of the Czechoslovak Sobotka and others, lost tens of billions of the republic. For example, I'm talking about privatization of OKD. We have more money in Germany for a war reparation. The postwar debt at today's value with 5% interest is up to CZK 15,000 billion. Not just every retired person, but every citizen in Germany has a million and a half crowns. Both these and previous governments persistently refuse to enforce debt, yet the Němec never questioned their debt. And it doesn't apply only because no one in the Czech Republic wants them to, or the government doesn't want them to. Poland, Greece, and even Namibia want to claim reparations and African Namibia has already received a specific offer from Germany. On the other hand, the Czech government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement is so large that it will give Germany fifteen thousand billion crowns. And, of course, the government should also invest in projects or companies that will generate profits that would help to fund pensions. Likewise, Western European states holding shares in profitable private firms do so. It is clear that decent pensions cannot be financed by primitive increases in taxes and levies. We're already at the limit here. Rather beyond the limit, so the state must be able to find other sources of finance for the state, such as the German or French governments, which have shares, for example, in car factories. Finally, I will repeat once again that the SPD Members will vote in favour of this Act on an extraordinary one-off contribution, but we publicly protest that this government, like the previous ones, makes pensioners dependent on government favour. If you want to help low-income retirees, and I say this to the government, then pass the SPD Act on minimum dignified income while at the same time valorizing for fixed amounts, not percentages. Pensioners are not beggars, but the people who built this state and made money for this state for decades, so we must treat them. The money for a decent living is owed to them by the state. And again, I wanted to conclude by repeating the incredible thing that Miroslav Kalousek of the TOP 09 said here before me, when he basically throws pitchforks into the plan for pensioners to receive CZK 5,000 by the end of the year, because, after Mr Miroslav Kalousek said on behalf of the ODS and TOP 09 MPs, because there are two MPs needed here, so the ODS agreed with the TOP 09, so they said that they were vetoing this proposal under Section 90, so basically we can't discuss it in an accelerated procedure, and therefore there is a risk that people, pensioners, will not be able to discuss it in such a way that they would receive the 5,000 by the end of the year. And I think it is necessary to repeat this in conclusion again so that all citizens know and hear what the ODS and TOP 09 policy is. It is an antisocial policy, and it is a completely unacceptable proposal for the SPD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u9	Thank you to Chairman Tomio Okamur. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now appear, Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, as a Member, to comment on this proposal for a contribution to the elderly, and not as many of you call it. For the first time in a long time, the consumer basket index is higher than the household consumption index. The government compensated a number of groups, not pensioners. For the first time in a few years, the price level of the consumer basket of pensioners increased by 3.9 percent in excess of the consumer basket of the rest of the population. Pensioners have more health care costs, medicines, supplements, dentists, glasses and many other things. These costs are essential for them to be able to live in a dignified way and not to live in old age. We can see - and I think a lot of you have now come up with energy supplements - that even because of the coronavirus and the crisis, food and energy prices have increased. Moreover, pensioners are usually unable to find a way to make extra money; That's something you need to think about, too. The opposition blames the government for wanting to corrupt voters, but when we increased the parental contribution, they canceled the property acquisition tax or, if we want to cancel the gross wage, no one would call it corruption or label it. There's also an idea that only pensioners with low pensions should be added, those with higher ones don't need it according to some of you. But such a move would probably be unconstitutional. It is not possible to add only to people with low pensions. The contribution we are promoting is a weak third of the thirteenth pension that exists in many European countries quite commonly. He's got it, for example. Poland, Hungary or Slovakia. We don't push for anything like that. We only want to one-time help to the elderly in these tense times. The negotiated amount of CZK 5,000 is a coalition compromise. And here, although I respect the secretary very much and respectfully, it seemed to me today at her performance, as if I remembered the story of Zlatovláska and the evil king, who was always saying only me, me, me. I think the Treasury Secretary never said that I, I, the Treasury Secretary, but we as the government. Not you. You may have suggested, but the government agreed, and we Members had to raise their hand for your proposals. Well, it's just to the edge. Opponent colleagues should try to make the elderly feel guilty. We don't eat the future, we don't bribe voters. Because it was the ODS and the TOP 09 in the days of Nečasův' government that clearly showed their relationship with the elderly. Do you know what it is? 2009 is eloquent, it was pure zero. Debt to GDP decreased from 41 per cent to 30 per cent between 2014 and 2019. We now have the capacity to support the economy, employees, entrepreneurs, and take care of our seniors and disabled pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u11	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. My colleague, Bauer, will wait a little longer, but there is a factual remark from the Member -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u12	I am so sorry, Mr President, I am so sorry. I would still like to take the liberty under Paragraph 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u13	Yes, thank you. Since you have priority rights as rapporteur, of course I am happy to oblige you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, my colleague Bauer is ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to comment on the frequent argument about price growth. When we quote directly from the Pension Insurance Act, it says that the calculation of price increases is made from the original basis aggregate indices of consumer prices /life costs/ for households in total and from the original basis indices of consumer prices /life costs/ for households of pensioners identified by the Czech Statistical Office, using the higher price increases. - I have no objection to the fact that prices are rising even in pensions, of course, but it is a bit unfortunate if the government argues that the prices for pensioners are rising faster than for the rest of the economy. That's true, but that's already included in the current valuation scheme. So please, let's use factual arguments and not drag things that aren't really true. We, of course, as pirát, support this valorisation scheme, which agrees with the growth of pensions, with the average pension it is a little over CZK 10,000 per year, but we point out that the increase in prices in the pension consumer basket is taken into account in the current valuation scheme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u15	Thank you for keeping time. I will ask my colleague Bauer to wait, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová has signed up with priority rights. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u16	Thank you. I would respond very briefly to Mr Ferjenčík. You're right to some extent, but it has to be said that the valorisation of normal, standard, always takes place from 1 January. And if we have, for example, here. from February, from March at the latest, extraordinary inflation, so it will be reflected in the valorisation again from 1 January. That means there's a time distortion. And we want to compensate the last few months just for all the pensioners. That's what's important to say. There's always time distortion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u17	Thank you. Now, Mr Jan Bauer and Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u18	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, we often discuss very complex and professional issues here in plenary, and in the light of these issues, in my opinion, today's debate is actually childishly simple. It is about whether the government has or does not have just from the plesier and in order to win the election to hand out one-off financial assistance to the selected group of companies. And childishly simple is the government's argument in the explanatory note, if you've all read it well. The government is said to have to help pensioners because their cost of living is rising sharply and the government needs time to evaluate the effects of the COVID pandemic. Well, let me make a few comments on that, although some of the arguments have already been made here. First of all, the government should clearly name these costs that it argues. Not because, as an opposition, we would like to mitigate the difficult situation of our seniors, certainly in no way, but to make it clear whether it is an increased cost exclusively for the elderly or also for other groups of residents. Doesn't the cost of living grow to the singles? Doesn't the cost of living increase for families with one or more children? Doesn't the cost of living increase for young people after school? Don't they grow to entrepreneurs whose years of built-up trade are failing right now? All of them, too, have increased their cost of living. By not even trying to argue, the government merely admits the true nature of this electoral bribe. [[16.40 hours]] Two. After all, pensions increase from year to year. And this increase is automatically based on the valuation formula that increases the cost of living. The pattern... And here I am just saying, on the initiative of the Czech Social Democratic Party even in 2017, if I am correct, it was changed, even proposed by a fellow Member here, Mr Sklenák. Again, pensions increase by half, instead of an earlier third of the growth in real wages, and the rise in the prices of goods purchased by the seniors. I looked it up, Prime Minister Sobotka commented on it at the time: There will be no scissors spread between average wage and average pension. Economists were quite correct at the time, because it was obvious that state finances did not have to bear the annual increase in pensions at a new pace. The valorization formula exists here, and it's really available. And I am very pleased that my colleague Ferjenčík has already talked about this. I beg you, any one of you who understands it a little or wants to care, it would be good for you to actually read the valorisation formula. And those cost of living are now included in the new households of elderly people. So it was said here. That's what's been said right here. It's a fact that the government of Andrej Babiš is silently passing. And in the past, she was bluffing that she was handing out her own decisions to the elderly. Here I just want to make a margo of what we heard here last year and this year - please, every government, whether central, right-wing, left-wing, or whatever else, must increase pensions in the Czech Republic by a legal valuation formula. This year it was approximately CZK 750. And here we were discussing whether we could even the increase to the 900, which was 150 CZK this year. I just point out that both for the legal increase, which is not voted on, and for the 150 CZK increase, the Civil Democratic Party voted. If the government really wants to make it better for the elderly, in my opinion, let it come up with a proposal to modify this valorisation formula. Sounds like a fair option to me. And let's have some business and more years ahead. We may not agree with you as opposed, but it will be a fair and factual debate. However, it must be clear to all that without greater reform of the pension system, without reforms that support, for example, the birth rate, they will bring more money into the system, nothing like this will be possible. And that brings me to my third point. The government has famously created a retirement commission. After all, she was talking about the pension committee here, Minister Jana Maláčová. Pension reform is a megapriority to all the priorities of the programming declaration, because pension reform is on the first side of this government's programming declaration. The result of her work is, in my opinion, a net zero, and by the end of the term of office, there is no significant change in the pension system. If I listened carefully to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, there is supposed to be some paragrafo version of the pension reform or a proposal, and it was said that we would present it. I wonder if we equal social democracy, that's a big difference. Because when I saw the face of the secretary of finance when you talked about it, I don't know if she was excited about it, but she was shaking her head a little bit. And if we... [[I'm wearing a mask, you couldn't have seen that.]] But that is how I have seen the expression of your eyes, Madam Secretary, through Mr President. So, according to the expression of your eyes, Minister of Finance, I saw that it would probably be us social democracies and that it would not be us, that the Czech Government would present this reform, because I am very curious to see how you are going to deal with it. And there's one more thing that puzzles me. None of the ad hoc increases in pensions with which the government had come have been put on the committee for discussion, not once did she ask the experts sitting in it. This was, at the same time, a non-conceptionary step which significantly affects the outlined pension payment mechanism. The pension commission had been seriously debating the pension system in the Czech Republic for about two years, while the government made a mimosad decision about how much more it would ever and who it would pay in pensions. I'm really sorry here. I have really talked about this many times at the pension board, that I am struck by the fact that we are there to invent systems to reform it, and, among other things, you are making a baby decision on the government, and you are deforming this system significantly. It's a desperate example of how little this government cares about what's left of it, and that it's stolen by people who are about to retire, which is the current generation of 30s and 40s. So maybe today's debate is childishly simple. But the government, in its approach, is setting us up with a very serious problem for the future. The proposal we have on the table is not an expression of intergenerational solidarity. It's the next step towards intergenerational solidarity. We are in a situation where pensions will not increase according to legal and debatable conditions, but according to the current needs of the ruling political parties. This may be at the expense of building motorways, investing in health care and education, or investing in salaries in social services. And it is in social services that, by the way, very serious problems are already emerging. The government promised a new law that would ensure their financing, especially stable funding, and at the same time gave room for further development, because older and needed clients would certainly increase due to demographic developments. However, no such law has provided, let alone set up stable funding for this system. In doing so, go and ask the families who care for their grandparents, what they have to do to find suitable services for their parents or a place in overcrowded elderly homes. Ask the headmasters of the homes what the floors of the employees are and why they don't flatten their facilities. Only because we have an influx of labor from abroad. That's not even a 500-pound desperation in the care of seniors that can fix, in my opinion, Christmas presents. A complete conclusion. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is simply pretending to lead us all to heaven. But this is the way down the stairs, where at the end, in my opinion, we will again have a logical impact on the wall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u19	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. My colleague Hana Aulická will wait. He came forward with a factual remark from Roman Sklenák. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I wrote in response to a repeated remark that special retirement inflation is therefore already included in the current valuation mechanism. Yes, it is true that it was on my proposal in the last parliamentary term. Before that, social democracy once again changed the valorisation mechanism after the ODS had changed it so that, in fact, really old-age pensions began to fall very quickly. And that's why we need to look not only at the valorisation mechanism, but I think we need to look at the purchasing power of pensions. And while the incomes of economically active people have been growing steadily since November 1989, old-age pensions are now about 101 percent of what purchasing power old-age pensioners had in 1989. That means, in the last 30 years, it hasn't actually moved at all. And when we look at the income of pensioners and their life in terms of material deprivation, they're even worse off. So here's what I think is exactly why it makes sense to give this allowance to single-time pensioners, because they actually have a lot of them, especially those single-living seniors, have a problem with one-time spending. They don't have almost any reserves. And if we were talking that there really was a time when we all had these extraordinary expenses and those seniors had them, they often didn't have any reserves for these expenses. So please, let's not just stick to the valorisation mechanism all the time and see if their inflation is included or not, but let's look at the overall situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u21	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. [[- Thank you.]] Now, then, Mrs Hana Aulická. Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak for the KSČM club for this one-time contribution. I think we all see that this is very much presented in the media, very much discussed and, of course, in the Chamber of Deputies, no one expects that this will not be a proper discussion and that this will not be discussed from all sides. We, as KSČM, were not afraid to say that we are taking this as a real populist step and maybe a political struggle before elections to regional councils, because we will not increase the valorisation coefficient by a one-off contribution. And that's the problem that we as a KSČM really see. On the other hand, the main argument why we, as a KSČM, support this proposal is a big slump between the average wage and the average pension. We are really getting into so much trouble where all our spending and all our costs are constantly increasing. And I'm not talking about gloating, because, of course, our seniors are also looking for drapes, buying, of course, others, but the biggest impacts are on them for housing, food and, of course, medicine. And that's just the problem where we see that even the 5,000 crowns, even though for us there is really not going to be an increase in the valorisation coefficient, they at that time, or now they can help to at least have some income than the increase in the valorisation. I would also like to say that we have convinced ourselves or, as I say, that here within the right-wing opposition it is called a bribe and so on. But I'm convinced, as I've been talking to our seniors lately, that it won't change their perspective on the side they're promoting and who they want to vote for. The one-off contribution of CZK 5,000 does not mean that they will vote for Mr Babiš or ČSSD. They just keep it, and of course everyone wants the 5,000 crowns. And it doesn't matter what average they have. I think we can really agree on that. And I can't even imagine when I was discussing the amendment from the KDU-ČSL workshop that we would really target only the lowest pensions. Of course, they deserve it the most, but the inevitability in society, or the overall number of seniors, would be so great that I think our politicians might not have put it behind the frame. I say for myself and for KSČM that we will not support this amendment precisely for this reason, because even though we receive an average of CZK 15,000 pension, we can probably tell ourselves what percentage this average or perhaps even higher amount has and how many seniors have between 10 and 13 thousand. It's a lot bigger than the ones with the average or above average these days. And if they stay alone, I don't want to say "social," but when they take care of them, we have a lot of experience that it's the family that still sins that the senior gives them at least what he has left. For us, we really think that support is important, and we really want to help our seniors. And as I'm saying, the main argument is the amount where we really can't get to some optimal amount, and the scissors are opening up right between the average wage and the average pension. So, of course, we'd like to see a faster valorisation of the very lowest pensions. Of course, we repeatedly offer this as one of the options. So far, we've been on our own. And we really can't keep up with the large number of the smallest pensions so that we can catch up with the average wage. And we really still have those big scissors spread out here, and we really don't want that as a KSČM. So, on the other hand, we are going to try to do something with the other proposals that we are going to make, and we are going to try to discuss them, and we are finally going to have a legislative start to create something that would help those pensioners with the flat lowest pension. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u23	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. My colleague Tomáš Martínek will also wait because Mr Pavel Bělobrádek has made a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I was in Sobotkův's government, and we actually changed the calculation precisely because we thought that pensioners deserved a pension of at least 40 percent of the average wage. That's why it changed. I don't remember it maybe at tenths, but we got somewhere 38.5 percent of the average pension relative to the average salary, so it had its ratio. Because if we kept going down, it would really mean absolute relative pensioner poverty. As for what my colleague said in front of me, we have voters who turn to us and who, for example, have a pension higher and say they don't need it, they don't want it. They'll deal with it by sending it to charity. Because if someone has a pension above average, then why should they receive as much as the one who basically needs it. Plus, there are other groups here that don't think about it, not just seniors who deserve it. That's why our proposal. I guess it depends on who you're talking to. But those who have a below-average pension will, of course, appreciate it far more than those who say that it is, of course, at the expense of their grandsons. This means that we have to realize that there are groups of people who have pensions above 15, 20,000, and it is a question of whether it is really fair and also reasonable for everyone to receive this contribution, even those who have no problem coming out of the pension. Of course, there is also a need to think about women who have an average of CZK 2,000 less pension than men do. And this is due, among other things, to a large extent, to the fact that women cared for children, they had a child. Thus, they had lower incomes, and then they could not carry out such financially valued work. And that's why we're proposing the $500 for every kid that mommy had. And it's a pension, which means only one who's worked out, one who's retired, one who should get a foster child.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u25	Thank you for almost keeping time. One more de facto comment from my colleague, Sklenák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u26	I dare to respond to my previous speaker. As for the second issue, a certain amount for a raised child, I think that it is slowly beginning to be, or maybe there is a consensus in this House and that it will be part of the proposals that will come out soon. However, as for the first part, which not only sounds from the mouth of Pavel Bělobrádek, I can't imagine how it could be done legislatively. After all, the pension system is based on some principles, principles of merit and principles of solidarity. Among other things, the Constitutional Court has already dealt with this, not once. And I can't imagine we'd agree here that we have the will to add less to those who have low pensions to those who have high school, and to those who have high school, to add nothing. So if we wrote something like that in the law and approved it, I'm convinced that it just can't go through the Constitutional Court. It's not possible to proceed like this. Of course, people with lower incomes are devoted to the state through social aid. Anyone who's in bad shape is entitled to benefits. But if we are talking about the pension system, and at the moment we are discussing measures under the pension system, I am afraid that, as Pavel Bělobrádek suggested, it is not possible to proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I will ask my colleague Martínek to wait, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová has signed up with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would also also respond to Mr Bělobrádek. Indeed, aside from the unconstitutional nature of your proposal, I don't think it's a good way to say that the person who has a higher pension than the average, and who has, for example, a crown more, doesn't deserve the $5,000. I think it's questionable, even if it's ten crowns, one hundred, two hundred. We can't stage like this. I think the way we have chosen is really very fair to everyone. And I understand that there are people who have very high pensions, they're financially secured, and they say they don't need it, the $5,000 a month - so good. But the vast majority of seniors and seniors, and hopefully we agree that pensions are not high in our country, I can read you the actual numbers, how it is layered, best describes the information that a million elderly or retired women have a pension of under 14,000. And that's not just an old-age pension, that's where widow's pensions or widow's pensions are counted. This means, indeed, this is the best, least administratively demanding and most just way to help those who have very low pensions despite working their entire lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u29	Thank you, Minister. I will assure my colleague Martínek that he will be waiting because there are three factual points. The first is from President Stanjura, then Patrik Nacher, then colleague Bělobrádek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of view. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u30	I would like to ask my fellow Social Democrats to use fair arguments. Saying from the speaker's desk that something's unconstitutional doesn't cost you anything, but it doesn't matter. I see no reason, I really do not know any reason why, for example, the proposal that Pavel Bělobrádek spoke of would be unconstitutional. We've got discounts on the baby, haven't we? Those who have children take them away. And I think that's okay, and it's undoubtedly constitutionally comfortable. And all of a sudden, you're saying that the same people, if they were to be rewarded for having children, even in the retirement system, are unconstitutional. When we agreed to raise pensions here by the age of 85, no one said it was unconstitutional. So please don't play with it and don't use it as arguments. You don't know. It would have to be attacked by someone at the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court would have to decide. We haven't adopted the law yet, but you already know it's unconstitutional. I know it doesn't cost you to come here, make a figure of speech, but you're devaluation the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u31	Thank you. Mr Nacher's point of fact. Then Mr Bělobrádek and Mr Sklenák. Real notes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u32	Good afternoon. I didn't originally want to talk to this point, but I have to respond to my colleague, Bělobrádek. We've been debating the merits and solidarity ratio for years. And it has been said here several times that the system is set up with us, that it is more solidarity than in other countries, and merit is more denied. That means this proposal would deepen even more. Personally, I'm not very excited about the various area measures, but I also said on TV that in this case I would rather add more to seniors who have lower pensions than those who have higher ones. And right after that, I got a crazy amount of e-mails from the seniors who had higher pensions, with the clear argument that they made more money all their lives, put more money into the system, in the ratio they have a lower pension, the merit is very significant in our country, and now they would still be punished. Madam Secretary talked about it. We're always visualizing someone's pension of 20 grand, someone's 12, but whoever's on that line would be plus or minus ten crowns, and they'd already have a plus or minus five thousand. As far as this constitutional complaint or constitutional comfort is concerned, whether it is comfortable or not, I will, of course, not argue here, however true it is that, from time to time, even opposition Members here at the Margo have said that they are constitutionally uncomfortable. So I think it's fair that sometimes even a coalition MP uses this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u33	Thank you. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, Mr Roman Sklenák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u34	Thank you for the floor. I agree with that. And if we want to keep that there's proportionality, we can never add the same to everyone. That means, that's how it's supposed to translate into a normal calculation, but that makes it more likely that those who have done more in the past get more. And that way women will be punished again, for example, because they were at home with the children, and they will get even less than they would get. So we're getting into some kind of circle. I'm sure everything you can do when you want to be treated. And what the Secretary of State said, I can respond to that remark. I hope she mistook it, but she said $5,000 a month. And I'm still thinking that this proposal is a one-off five thousand dollar amount. But I can assure you, I've heard seniors who are looking forward to receiving an extra $5,000 a month. So let me get this straight, because I think even in the tape screen, it's going to say that you said $5,000 a month. So it is necessary to explain to the seniors that they are not planned to receive an extra CZK 5,000 each month, but that they should receive it one time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u35	Thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u36	Yes, thank you. I just want to ask my colleague Stanjura very briefly not to put something in our mouths that we didn't say. Another thing is, if I were to step out here and say, I'm saying that this proposal would be unconstitutional. And the second thing is to say here that I am aware that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly dealt with a question and that I am concerned that such a proposal could be declared unconstitutional. In the latter case, I think it's perfectly correct, and I can express my opinion and some concern here without being attacked by anyone like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u37	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u38	Let's go to Roman Sklenák's honored colleague first. I didn't attack you, colleague. If that's the way you see it, I'm sorry. I didn't really mean that it was a personal attack. However, out of many of those who support this proposal, quite strong words fall to the address of those who do not support it. It seems pointless to me, because I think we can maintain our own opinion and have a fair debate without blaming ourselves for who likes seniors and who doesn't like them and so on. I don't know anyone who doesn't like a group of seniors, so it's completely unnecessary. And in the debate, for example, there was a debate about the ratio of average income to average wage. Although the Social Democrats are praising how well they raise it against governments when the ODS ruled, the average is dropping. I'm not happy about this. So always say the whole thing, not just the absolute number, but the relative one. I'm gonna try to explain again why we vetoed the bill. I would like to say to the rapporteur that we will support the reduction of the deadline to 30 days she has read in her speech. Madam rapporteur - I would like to say that we will support the proposal for a reduction. The problem with the '90s is you can't make an amendment. We do that sometimes, the '90s, so I'm just saying, in this case, we believe that we have at least two instruments that are better than those mentioned in this bill that would help seniors better and help them in a system and long-term manner. I think it's legitimate, we're gonna make the proposals, of course, in the '90s. That is why we want to use the time between first and second reading to introduce them, you know many of them, and to try to get majority support for this in the Chamber of Deputies. We already have majority support in the Senate. What's unfair about the solution? Don't get mad at me, Madam Secretary - the one-time thing. The rapporteur was comparing here, saying: When you raised your parents - when we raised our parents, and we voted for it many times, you didn't mind. When we canceled the tax, you didn't mind. If we're gonna cancel, you don't mind. [[Nesroz.]] These are all systemic long-term measures that will not be applied one-time. That's the difference. If you come up with a proposal that would change the law on valorization, we can have a debate on the parameter, but it's fair if you somehow valorize pensions beyond legal valorization, it's a long-term solution. With each other's valorization, what those seniors got is what counts. You've avoided that. I haven't forgotten the debate about how much it's supposed to be. The rapporteur said: the amount is the result of a coalition compromise. We never knew how you got to him. I respect that you made a deal. But no argument, why not six, as Vice Prime Minister Hamáček wanted, but why five or four, which was what the Minister of Finance wanted. Six and four is ten over two - compromise five. Maybe. But you haven't given any other reason, and it's a shame. Maybe you can convince us that that's the right amount. The fact that this is a one-time thing is wrong in our opinion. [[17.10 hours]] I've done my job, and as part of the preparation for this point, I've looked into the screen records, and that's a really bad thing. On 22 August 2018, we discussed the back of the Senate, where the upper chamber repeated the amendment of my fellow Member, Mr Bauer, who failed in the House, which simply said: Let's raise a thousand crowns a month to all those who have been receiving a pension for 25 years. Madam Secretary was against it. From a comical point of view today, we don't have 1.9 billion. How the world has changed over the past two years. Changed. I'm just saying. The Minister opposed and said, don't worry, it needs to be dealt with systemically and since the start of the old-age pensions. I also believe that this measure should be part of the pension reform. August 22, 2018. Look, we're 25 months ahead, and the Minister could repeat that sentence exactly the same way, because nothing has changed. It could be part of the pension reform. Only two years and one month have gone by, and those ladies could have had 21,000 more in that time if we'd approved it. The Minister blamed the proposal for technical imperfections, and she was right about that. That's just gonna happen. You don't have staffs of lawyers like the Ministry. However, the Senate was also working on this in cooperation with the MPSV. The year met with the year and 11 September 2019, which is a year and four days ago, we discussed the same proposal in terms of content but technically correct. There were no more technical flaws. The Minister opposed, once again, the argument that this concerns only six years. Of course, this year it would be seven, eight, nine next year. All right. What did the secretary come up with in the next 13 months? Nothing. Nothing! Full mouth of just pensions, full mouth about how difficult these women have and lower pensions - a specific proposal? Zero. Nothing at all! This is, of course, a much better and system solution that we will present before the second reading, and I believe you will think about it, that you will not throw it away just because you didn't invent it. System solution - a thousand crowns a month. This will help in 2021, 2022 and all subsequent years. Is this a better solution than a one-time contribution? It is! What are the costs? 1.9 billion. in 2018. I don't know how much it would be this year or next year. Ridiculous against today's state of public finances, yet it did not happen from the parties of the government majority or the government coalition at all. Last September 11th, the material was defended by an honored colleague, Senator Miloš Vystrčil. He won't come back as the Senate chief to defend the law. He discussed all the Minister's reservations in detail, refuted all her arguments, and the result was once again one big zero. We have the Commission for Fair Pensions. How long, Madam Secretary? We've had three years in a row. Three years. How many bills have we seen? Nothing! How likely is it that it will come in time for such a serious matter to be discussed and found a political consensus? Lousy, probably. We have 494 points for the meeting, but you just can't find retirement reform there. So this is one proposal that we would like to propose and debate. The second, which would increase intergenerational solidarity, the Minister says that this is a tax or social signage. I don't really see it that way, I say it the way it is. One percent of the gross wage could be sent directly to those who pay social security - they could voluntarily - to their parents or grandparents who are retired. It is once again the bonification of families, it is once again the promotion of intergenerational solidarity. During the course of time, the Minister actually said that there were different possibilities of acknowledgment and that they were discussed in the committee, etc. But the Social Democracy Commission - because that's exactly how it is, it's the Social Democracy Commission, the Prime Minister has made his own committee. She didn't do anything, but do you remember, Madam Secretary, how he announced his team and his commission? Nothing! So we have two committees. For those who were not here in the last parliamentary term, sometime in 2015, the Prime Minister, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, spoke in March and says: I have it! Within three months, I'm going to submit a full draft pension reform, and that's going to be a bomb! The most dedicated member of the ANO movement Martin Komárek says: I have not seen it yet, but I agree. This will be the best pension reform ever seen in the Czech Republic. Not even Martin Komárek has been here for about three years, and still the great pension reform that Andrej Babiš was supposed to submit by June 2015 or 2014, I don't know exactly, he's not here anymore. And if anyone dares to question whether the bill is the right thing to do to help our seniors in the long run, they are labeled, ridiculed and referred to as someone who doesn't like seniors. It's just not fair. He might have a different opinion. Let's see how you deal with our arguments. But what about next year? Next year, won't our seniors have increased cost of living? They won't have them in January? As the Prime Minister says in his rudeness, we are the first in Europe - so we are the first or the second in inflation! After all, this is a big problem for the cost of living of all, and especially of the elderly. What is the government doing to make inflation lower? Nothing. And that's how it is all the time. So we call for a normal factual expert debate and say that a system solution is better than a one-time solution. Yes, disposable is popular. I understand that. It's hard to face. I understand those who want the money. Who wouldn't understand? But we are not here to choose the most popular solution, but to choose a solution that will be long-term and sustainable. And this just isn't. And in January? And in February? And in March? What about those with lower pensions? Madam Secretary is right to say that we have a million pensioners who have a pension of less than 14,000. What will change if we approve this bill? Nothing! What are you going to do with the average wage ratio and average pension ratio next year? This is where you laughed about how it was in right-wing governments, but it was higher. Six years was economic growth, and you didn't stop it. So the scissors kept opening. Not for our governments, for your governments, scissors opened between average wage and average retirement! My honored colleague Roman Sklenák says that's not true. So let's ask the Minister to bring us the numbers of the ratio in 2009, 2010, 2011 until 2020. That's a serious debate. We will have numbers and we can tell ourselves what circumstances contributed to this, whether or not the particular government had a choice or not. And those numbers aren't gonna end well for you. I'm bohužel so. Then come with us to find a system solution, not a one-time solution. And if you get a one-time job, at least don't give us a damn!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u39	Thank you. And I'm just going to ask the Minister whether he wants to respond with a factual remark or with priority rights. [[With priority rights.]] In that case, with a factual remark, Mr Roman Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u40	I wouldn't even be applying anymore, but when the previous speaker commented on my nonverbal speech, let me explain. Of course, he's right, and he was right about the fact that under our governments, the ratio of average income to average wage decreased. But why is that, and why was the affair better for your governments? Because it is the wages that are growing very quickly in our governments, and because average pensions are, of course, delayed, because half the growth in real wages is projected backwards, so the percentage is decreasing. While under your governments, when income went down economically active, the ratio looked better. So I was just shaking my head because I think we can really play with those numbers, we can all present something different. That's why I mentioned the purchasing power in one of my previous performances, because I consider it perhaps the most important for the pensioners, simply what they can afford for the pension. That's the key. Whether it has an affair to something higher or lower, they're not that interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u41	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u42	Mr. Mr. Sklenák is right. I'm not fighting him. I'm just saying, when you hit your boobs like that, talk about all the parameters. Yes, the delay is actually a year and a half when we say that, okay? I think we understand. But in his speech, my colleague, Mr Bauer, says that much better than what you have put forward, for example, is a debate on how to speed it up, how to change the valorisation sample. I think we can agree on that. We feel the problem that is sometimes in favour of the elderly when the economy is in stagnation or recession, and sometimes it is wrong to have the economy in growth. So let's have a serious debate about how we can change that. Let's look for ways to react faster. And then at the debate... I believe that unintentionally, there is one thing that bothers me. As if the only source of income, or the only one to take care of our seniors, is the state. I don't think that's true. Family is the key. Mr Sklenák correctly said that income grew faster economically active. I believe that the vast majority of those whose economic income grew faster than the elderly contributed, logically, to their seniors, as those seniors contributed to their children when they were economically active, and to their parents when they were economically active. So I'd just like us not to create the impression that the only person to take care of and who cares about our seniors is the state. No way. He has to care. I agree. We've never been able to explain what an ongoing system means. Very often you meet the argument, the senior says: I spent my whole life paying my pension insurance and now I have a low pension. You won't be able to explain how the ongoing system actually works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u43	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded to President Stanjura. Mr President, you know, when the coronation came, that we were sitting there honestly with the entire ODS leadership, and we had the first round of discussion on our draft pension reform. And I have to admit, the discussion was really factual and honest. And we also agreed to continue it. We also had those wheels at other MPs' clubs, and we didn't continue because the coronation crisis came. Now we've come to this, and that, let's say, the systemic step that our government owes, and I'm right about that. Our government owes pension reform. It's a total priority. And I, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because this is the priority of our government's programming statement, will present such a pension reform, as has been submitted by the pension committee for a year and a half or by the Commission for Fair Pensions for a year and a half as discussed by the Commission for Fair Pensions. And let's discuss it honestly. Look, I agree that we need a system solution. However, I disagree with President Stanjura, who says it is three years after the election, pension reform is not complete. I am the Minister of Labour twenty-five months - twenty-five months, and in January we presented the intention. And in the Commission on Fair Pensions - and you know that there are half of the representatives of the professional public and the other half are representatives of the parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary parties. None of these people said it was the wrong direction. We're at this point, and it's also complicated the coronation crisis, waiting for the analysis, the independent analysis of the OECD. It should arrive in October, which means in a few weeks. I certainly hope it doesn't go all the way again, because we're not in this body to set it up. It's an international organization that responds to the whole shift that caused the coronation. And then we want to introduce the system solution. That means it's really our government's priority, we're going to introduce it, and I'm going to do my best. And not only because it's my job, but also because I'm the year it's going to be about, the big blackout in decades. So for this reason, among other things, it's on my mind. And I think it's really fair and important to have that honest, factual debate about how to have fair pensions now, for current retirees, but also for future ones, in the course of the next few decades. I said a few weeks ago that the whole discussion where we're gonna take it is stupid and shallow. Of course, I said it differently than it was interpreted in the media. But really for me, if we're not having a discussion about where to get the money for people who worked their whole lives honestly and did it without anyone saying we couldn't afford it, then the discussion is useless. We simply have a duty to provide the basic functions of the state to people who pay a large part of their entire lives, so we have a duty to provide them with fair pensions. I won't say any more. I think that the debate that awaits us in the next few days and weeks, but I think this bill is about how to balance inflation for the last few months. You're right, we need a system solution. Come work with us on this. We are honest about the debate with all the parliamentary parties. And I think it is one of the biggest challenges for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u45	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. First, Mr Ferjenčík, then President Stanjura, Mr Bauer, Mrs Hyťhová. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really couldn't do this anymore. I have to respond to the secretary. I'd like to ask you what it looks like when something isn't a total priority. Because obviously when it's a total priority, you leave it on ice for three years so it doesn't get discussed. And so I'm really wondering how this government prioritizes. Because if this is a total priority, you approach it by promising a proposal that you will then put forward as a social democracy without a government consensus as a pre-election proposal that will not be able to discuss, I really do not think that this is an approach to achieving a total priority to become a reality. It's completely ridiculous, Madam Secretary! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u47	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura - factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u48	I'm more of a rhetorical kind of guy. Madam Secretary, who invented the OECD solution? Each pension system is different and non-transferable. We could still ask the UN, or I don't know who they're sending us, and we'll be waiting. I heard we'll get information from the OECD in the spring, June. But the secretary uses the word fairly, and it sounds very good. But the key to agreeing, at least fairly, is what Mr Nacher was talking about. [[Nesroz.]] Value of merit and solidarity. After all, this is a key indicator of whether most retirees or most retirees who have paid in the interim system will regard it as fair or not. And that's not what we're discussing. The rest is a lower order. I don't want to underestimate it. But about the parameters of how much merit and how much solidarity is supposed to be, that's whether our public accepts it - not that we tell it here in the House, that it's a fair system, whether those who retire after the 35 years they've been paying for the interim system will feel that the state has measured them fairly or will feel that they haven't. And that's a complicated debate, there's no easy solution. I'm afraid we won't find him until the election, we have 12 months. Because it's not a trivial thing. I don't want to say who's to blame. We're just not gonna make it. And Mr. Ferjenčík is right. That's the priority. And we have 494 points, and priority is not among them. The fact that we've got 500 points is crazy. But we don't have the highest priority. So if I put 150 opposition items in there, how many government things are left? 350 things that are more important than pension reform when it is a priority. And that's just not how the debate works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u49	Thank you. Mr Jan Bauer - factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u50	Allow me only for those of you who are not members of the pension committee to refer to what has been said here. I think that the main reason that nothing has yet fallen out of the pension committee, as I said in my speech, practically zero, is certainly not the fault of members or a major majority of members of the pension committee. And you know, Madam Secretary through Mr President, if you were on that last pension committee - but I understand that you simply cannot be everywhere, because that is the normal purpose of every minister - the OECD framework position there was presented through President Nerudová. [[17.30 hours]] And if you're just waiting for saving advice, once from the World Bank, once from the OECD, or also the United States or other powers could give us advice, just don't expect anything, just write it down. I'll tell you what the OECD says. 96 percent of Czech pensions are paid through the Czech state, the population is getting old, we have a small share of private money throughout the system. That's how it was presented at the last pension committee. So don't wait two months or three months, where the main problem - and listen to those members of the pension committee - is the unpredictability of your behavior, because the commission has become a committee of the Czech Social Democratic Party recently, you can't agree on practically nothing on the government. It has already been said here that Prime Minister Babiš has set up his own commission alongside the ANO movement and the Communist Party, that he will invite the OECD to do so, and listen to the real voices of those serious experts in the pension committee, who are just disgusted, not enjoying it and feel that their work is completely useless. They're hard to find motivation to even go there because it's not going anywhere. So please don't wait for the OECD, they won't bring us any salvation. I've seen the arguments before. We've known this place for 30 years. We've known everything that goes down for 30 years. And please, really come up with something. And I'm afraid that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u51	Time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry. Thank you. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, after her, with a factual remark from the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u52	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to comment on what has already been said here. Under Tricolore, we do not agree with the way pensions are dealt with. We are proposing a conceptual solution, and I am very sorry that only 10 votes have not passed today, in short, only 10 votes have been supported by our proposal, where we would like, in fact, to be able to give 1% of the taxes that we pay to our grandparents, parents, simply to participate in making our pensioners, our citizens better. I think this is kind of a pre-election gag before the regional elections to please our seniors and our citizens. We will, of course, support this. We will support the pensioners to receive CZK 5,000, but I must repeat that this is a real mockery, because here we are constantly listening from the Minister, from the entire government, that there will be a pension reform. I've been here for three years, I've listened to it so many times over the past three years, there hasn't been any pension reform, and I don't know if it's ever gonna happen before the end of the term. You have been with the government, Madam Secretary, for seven years now, and to this day you have not submitted any pension reform. I hope that our citizens and our pensioners are listening carefully to this debate and they will perceive that this really is not a step forward, because giving 5,000 crowns a contribution I think it really will not pull the thorn out of our pensioners and will not improve their situation. So we will support trikolóra, but we consider it absolutely unconceptionable, and I believe that in the future the Chamber of Deputies will support our proposal, as I mentioned here, with the one percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u53	Thank you. Madam Secretary Maláčová, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u54	Thank you. I was on that last committee, that's what I need to say, but that's not important, and there was only an OECD framework position, and it said, I remembered other things, that our pension system is over-funded from social security, almost two thirds, whereas the average of advanced countries is half. Furthermore, the OECD also says that we have too many years worked as a retirement requirement, 35 years, and they propose to us this age, or to reduce that number of years worked. But all of this will be discussed in the coming months. I would like one more reaction to President Stanjura. I think that pension reform is not only about the ratio of justice and merit, but it is also about the clarity of the pension system, about financial sustainability, but also about what merit is. And I don't think merit is just the amount of funds made. And we're back on the subject of why women have almost 3,000 on average a lower pension when they actually raised what our pension system is on, and that's the continuity, the family, the creation of future generations, when most of the burden is on them with the future of our country. This means, it is also about whether merit is only financial, or merit is also in the sense of care provided, which should then be financially valued in old age. Which is why we also support the 500 for a raised child, which is why we think that the minimum pension should be well set up, that we should not just talk about average income, etc., etc. But the debate will be waiting for us in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ferjenčík will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just have one more factual response to the Minister. You're saying that according to the OECD, the main problem with our pension funding is that we're paying the whole thing from social security. And then your government will submit a proposal that increases the dependence of the state's social security budget, which reduces taxes in proportion to the richest. And instead of reducing the social security, you're lowering the personal income tax rate, which they're going to lose the poorest at the same time, and you're telling us that it's going to be dealt with here in a few months. And over the next few months, there won't be any money in that state budget to make this pension reform out of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u57	Thank you. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u58	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I think it was said here that all pensioners should be added the same way. And there was also something about the Constitutional Court, if I'm not mistaken. So the Constitutional Court has already stated that such an approach, which means valorizing pensions to all the same amount, would be unconstitutional. I think it's either judicate, or it's the Constitutional Court's position. That's the thing that's been going on for a long time. It is because people who have taken more away should have higher pensions. The reduction limit is already very high here, it's very solidarity. The second thing that concerns what the secretary said. So, of course, merit should not only be what these people have taken into the system, but also how many other payers they have raised into the system, and this is also the proposed pension reform, from which a substantial part has also managed to reach the conclusions of the so-called Potůčkův Commission, which existed under Sobotkův's government. Unfortunately, the new government, where there are also Social Democrats, has actually pushed the result of the work somewhere, and it is not really inspired at all. And we, who, as KDU-ČSL, presented our pension reform as a complex material many years ago, expected that they should also have the option of giving children 3% of their social security to their parents, in order to show that whoever then goes to work and pays health and social insurance, so he could basically contribute to his parents, that is, the more you have working parents, the more then he can address himself to you. We had to update it, and it is not quite that simple, and I think that, in principle, the merit that is just based on the fact that you are also sacrificing time and bringing other payers to the national economy and nation and other people who go to work should be taken into account in pension reform. And I agree that we have heard here how many times since Mr. Babiš, that he will introduce pension reform, and he hasn't introduced anything at all, so far it's just money pouring in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u59	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek will now speak in the debate, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, after a heated debate here, I'd like to bring back a few facts, I've finally come to terms. There's been an increase in inflation. Well, I'd explain it a little bit for the unbiased. In June, inflation, respectively, increased consumer baskets of all households, 3.3 percent and elderly households were 3.8 percent year on year. So the difference is half a percentage point, which is equivalent to the average income that comes out of some 170-185 thousand a year, roughly less than a thousand grand a year, which would mean that if the seniors receive CZK 5,000 to match the rising inflation and the rest of the needed ones - single mothers and so on - they should get another CZK 4,000. The proposal is also discriminatory. He only gives money on government debt to persons receiving a pension, including those in early retirement, while he gives nothing to seniors who have voluntarily decided not to retire properly, even though they could. Because of this discrimination, some people over the age of 60 will receive nothing, or, on the contrary, they will be forced to retire properly, even if they have not yet planned to do so and wanted to work fully. On the contrary, the State should positively motivate those who choose to work voluntarily at retirement age and continue to pay social insurance for pensions to others. [[17.40 hours]] I want to ask how the government will ensure that we do not go the Greek way of overdebting a country that can also lead to a reduction in social policy spending, including pensions, in the near future. That's not what we pirát want. I want to help the elderly as well as anybody else who needs help. I have repeatedly voted in favour of increasing the valorisation mechanism to raise low pensions, and I fully agree with the valuation of pensions for next year by an average of more than CZK 10,000 a year. Finally, I would like to quote today's Facebook contribution to the absent member of the ANO Pavel Staněk movement, whom I appreciate: "I ran for the House with the motto of common sense and responsibility. The so-called mask doesn't match any of them. It resists common sense, does not constitute a responsible decision of the legislative body of the Czech Republic. I agree with the opposition, albeit in its case it is a systematic rejection of de facto each of the government's proposals. Roškovné is a clear buying of voters before regional and senate elections. The flat dose is not, in my opinion, an appropriate or reasonable measure." That's a quote from a member of the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u61	Thank you. Mr Válek, who is the last member of the debate so far, will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u62	Thank you, Mr President. So I'm not gonna lie, I'm gonna get off and I've been looking forward to it all along, I've been waiting patiently. Yes, so opposition MPs, and not just them, some claim that this is a bribe or a drape. Well, I'm not the youngest anymore, so I remember the definition of a bribe from Dikobraz. Always the jokes about the envelope and the bill in it, that's when it was the Hradcans. So I would be convinced that this is a really sophisticated sum based on some complex mathematical models, as the Minister here has justified, and then justified it on the basis of the complex calculations that I do not fully understand, I will admit to this through the President, the rapporteur, if someone could explain to me how the 5,000 came up, which happens to be the highest valid banknote, and how the expert discussion of the two teams, the social democracy, calculated 6,000, and the ANO team, which calculated 5,000, at least that was in the media, and how the debate concluded that the team of experts ANO has a more precise calculation and calculation that the 5,000 is the correct amount that is somehow going on, or, if it was so, that the five thousand went into the envelope, as the former Member of Rath, was chosen. That's how it feels. If it's a really sophisticated, sophisticated, calculated amount that comes from some models, then I hope it'll come out in second and third reading. I like to be convinced that this is what it means, because, of course, pensions are not high in our country, everyone is afraid of retirement, few people want to volunteer to go to it, try to make money in some way all the time, many retired people have to work. It has been said here, and I very much appreciate the words of the honourable Member, how many pensioners contribute to their children, rather than the children contribute to them, how many relatives you have on your pensioners. My sister works at a retirement home, and some stories are really very sad. Of course, I have to explain to my mother why I don't want to vote for her 5,000 crowns. She gets it because she doesn't want a bribe either, she wants my grandsons to get better in the future. So if it's a sophisticated amount that comes out of some calculation, through Mr Roman the President, I invite him to visit, he knows Mommy very much, and he's very happy to explain how he's come along, and I'm sure his visit will make Mommy happy, because she likes him, we're both from Líšně. So if the amount is really based on some logic, some kind of system, it's not a random number pulled out of a hat that happens to be like the highest bill, then it's definitely not a bribe. If that number is pulled out of a hat, well, it just makes you feel good. Of course, I don't think the government wants to bribe anyone, that anyone wants to bribe anyone, I basically believe in the honesty of all people and I'm repeatedly disappointed, but that doesn't matter, but it just makes you feel that way. Then I have a second question. We're still talking about $5,000 here, but I'm wondering how much the total sum is, if it's really a few - fifteen, twelve, I don't know how much it's supposed to be final - billions, how much it's going to cost, and if the total sum is going to be taken somewhere, or maybe next year it's going to be missing, I don't know, in health care payments, because the increase in state insurance payments isn't going to cover the cost of what's related to cod. That's very obvious today. These two things I will want to discuss in the next reading and the answers will definitely come to that. I really don't mean it aggressively, I don't mean it bad. I will certainly try to be positive, I will certainly try to support all reasonable amendments. After all, I'm already a pensioner, so I can selfishly think of myself in the future. I also want to have the highest pension, and I want the elderly to be able to live a decent quality life, as they are used to in some countries west of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u63	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík joined the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finally getting to the floor in a proper debate. First of all, I would like to address the question of why our pensions are low. Low pensions are mainly due to the fact that we are, above all, relatively poor countries compared to our neighbours in the West. We are essentially Germany's economic colony, but we have one-third wages. That's the basic problem we have to fight. And we have about 15 years to make up for Austria and at least a little bit of Germany, because then the state budget and this whole country gets that huge boulder of people who are going to retire - and they're obviously not responsible - people who were born in the '70s. They'll retire and the state won't have the workers to feed them. This shows a very good prediction of the National Budget Board, which points out that we have had the last 15 years to prepare for this population wave and really ensure some transformation of our economy so that we are ready to finance pensions for today's 50s and youngers. All the proposals that at this time reduce the Czech Republic's chances of modernising the Republic, investing in development, in newer technologies, making us richer than we are today in 20 years, will lead to today's 50s losing perspective of having a reasonable pension so that they can have a pension at least as much as they are today. I'll try to answer my colleague Válek how the 5,000 came into existence. In my opinion, the $5,000 was created by the government's chasing ahead of who's gonna add more. Mr. Babiš promised - it won't be 850, it'll be a thousand. Then Mr. Hamáček stepped in and said - we want an extra 400 crowns. And then they found out that if they beat each other like that, there are two drawbacks that just the extra 150 crowns that are added one-timely in proper valorization, that they probably won't make an eye like that for voters, because that's only 150 crowns, but at the same time the increase will then stretch through to all the years to come. So if they hand out $5 billion for regular valorization this year, it's going to be $50 billion for the next ten years, and while they do it one time, they can not only add a higher amount because they don't do it in the next few years, but they'll be able to do it again for the next few years. So while they add 400 this year, then they're running out of time to increase it every year, because people would just get it to their retirement. So they'd better add $5,000 now so they can add another $5,000 before the next election so they just have the resources to hand out the money they don't have. [[17.50 hours]] One of the reasons they don't have them is because Mr. Babiš is in politics. This is the development of subsidies that Agrofert has been receiving since Mr. Babiš was in politics. For every crown, for every crown he gives to the elderly, he gets two million from you, from the citizens, on subsidies. He'll give you one crown, and he'll take two million himself. And he thinks that it will be enough for him to be able to draw on the subsidies all the time so that he can go to the European Union summits and negotiate that, above all, his subsidies must never be reduced. And he's trying to buy you for that one crown so he can get his two million. And we think it's an outrage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u65	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík was the last member of the debate so far. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. We shall proceed with the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. I'll ask for the final word if there's any interest. [[This is Secretary Maláčová.]] Madam Secretary is interested. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u66	Thank you, Mr President. If I'm going to comment on this discussion, I have to say that I'm actually very sorry that we're constantly questioning extra money for seniors or all seniors. At the same time, when I replay the discussion in my head, I have to say that no one denied that pensions are low in our country, no one denied the fact that we need pension reform. I think the debate on pension reform is waiting for us. But at the same time, I have not noticed any concept other than the one prepared by the Commission for Fair Pensions, and I firmly hope that this discussion of the system solution awaits us all to work it out honestly, as we are here. Because, first, we all deserve it, and second, I think it's our duty. So once again, thank you for agreeing that pensions are low. I think that no one here has actually denied that the pensioners deserve the money, and I firmly hope that we will be able to approve this bill as quickly as possible in the coming weeks so that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can pay the 5,000 to those 3 million people in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u67	Mr. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura has applied with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u68	Madam Secretary, maybe we weren't listening, or you're not telling the truth here. You said you didn't want to raise low and lowest pensions. Because it is your government, the ANO and the ČSSD movement, that voted against the SPD bill, that is why it has a negative position, where we are the people with the lowest pension who wanted to impose the lowest minimum decent pension at the level of the poverty line, which is now about 12,000. We are also willing to discuss it to be at the minimum wage limit, which is 14,600. But most of all, you gave a negative opinion. So don't tell me nobody here says they're low pensions. The only people here who said they didn't want to raise the lowest pensions are the Yes and the ČSSD movement and your government, which gave us a negative opinion. I mean, it's black in white, it's also on the House's website. Then why did you vote against it? So please don't say, don't speak for the others, nobody, nobody. After all, you yourselves have shown in the vote... So not words, but actions. So I'm saying again, support the SPD Act on Minimum Dignity Retirement, I'm not gonna repeat myself, not words, but actions, and actually secure those people with the lowest pensions, those are the pensions up to CZK 15,000 so no pensioner has... There haven't been eight, nine, ten, thousand pensions left. Here's the only proposal that lies in the House that changes it and reduces the minimum dignified pension so that no one has less, so the SPD proposal. There's nothing on your part, and there's no pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-001-048.u69	Thank you. Now, then, we will deal with the commandments of the committee for discussion. We will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Would someone else please suggest a guarantee committee? No, we'll vote then. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 103 Members registered, for 95, against no one. I note that we have ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to the next committee? He's not suggesting. We still have one proposal to deal with. In the general debate, there was a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days, which Mrs Pastuchová has tabled. There's an application for check-out, I've checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. We therefore vote to shorten the deadline. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 96 Members registered, for 83, against no one. The deadline has been shortened. I conclude the first reading of this proposal. Thank you, Madam Secretary, rapporteur. Let's move on to the next point. It's about
