ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u1	Member's promise Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the 57th session of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to inform you that on 31 July of this year, the parliamentary mandate of Petr Vrán has expired. In this context, some constitutional steps must be taken. One of them is the promise of a new Member. I will ask you to remain calm and, at the same time, I will ask the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee of Mr Stanislav Grospič to inform us of the steps he has taken by this committee, and then he has read the Constitution of the prescribed promise that the Member will put in my hands. Prime Minister, you have the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to inform you that on 31 July 2020, Mr Petr Vrána delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies a statement written on the same day in the form of a notarial record giving up the mandate of a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. On that day, Mr Petr Vrána's parliamentary mandate was extinguished and the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Irena Blažková, who, according to the minutes of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies held on 20 and 21 October 2017, is the first alternate member of the ANO 2011 movement for the election region 12 - Olomoucký. Mrs Irena Blažková, on 11 August of this year, received from the President of the Chamber of Deputies a certificate on the establishment of a mandate and a mandate and an immune committee at its 32nd meeting today adopted Resolution 141 stating that: I. on 31 July 2020 the mandate of Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Ing expired. Petr Vrán born on 4 January 1975 in a manner according to the provisions of Sections 3 and 6 of the Art. (c) Law No 90/95 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended; II. on 31 July 2020 the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mrs Irena Blažková, born 6 May 1969, arose; III. has authorised the Chair of the Committee to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I will ask the House for more peace. After all, we're about to have a festive moment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u4	I now ask Mrs Irena Blažková to come before the Chamber of Deputies and to the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies to take the prescribed oath. At the same time, I ask the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies to take the oath of the Member. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The present rise.]] "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." [[Mrs Irena Blažková, by hand to Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, makes a promise to Filip and "I promise." Let's hear it.]] Madam, I congratulate you and wish you every success in your work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u5	Well, once again, I welcome Mrs Irena Blažková. I still wish her a great deal of success in her parliamentary work. We will now proceed to the designation of two verifiers for this meeting. I propose that the verifiers of the 57th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies elect Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Jiří Valenta. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide in voting number one, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of identifying these two verifiers. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 1 of the present 130 for 128, against no one. I note that we have appointed Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Jiří Valenta as verifiers of the 57th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that until the opening of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to apologize for their non-Participation the following Members asked: President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček without giving reason, Ivan Adamec for family Jan, Brzobohatá Babišová for work reasons, Ivan Bartoš for family Kobza, Kolovratník Baxa within 11 hours for health reasons, Jiří Běhounek for Jakub Michálek, Josef Bělica also for family Mikuláš, like Kováčik Bělobrádek, without reason of Marek Benda, for work reasons of work of Stanislav Blaha, for work Vojtěch of Jiří Bláha, for personal reasons of Tomáš Martínek, for health reasons of work of Lenka Dražilová, for Janulík of Jana Levová of Marian Jurečka, for personal reasons of Miroslav Kalousek, for family Lipavský of Přemysl Munzar of Mr. They also apologize for personal reasons František Navrkal, for family reasons Ladislav Okleštěk, for health reasons Petr Pávek, for no reason Daniel Pawlas, for personal reasons Markéta Pekarová Adamová, for health reasons Marie Pěnčíková, for work reasons Jan Pošvář, Karel Rais, for health reasons Miloslava Rutová, for personal reasons Karel Schwarzenberg, for health reasons Roman Sklenák, for family reasons Pavel Staněk, for reasons of foreign travel Karel Tureček, for family reasons Vlastimil Válek, for health reasons Helena Válková, until 11.30 for work reasons Lubomír Volný, for working reasons Ivo Vondrák, Tomáš Vymazal, for family reasons Rostislav Vyzula and Radek Zlesák. From 11 o'clock the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for the whole day for family reasons Klára Dostálová, for work reasons Jana Maláčová, Tomáš Petříček, Alena Schillerová and Miroslav Toman. Those are all the reasons we have here. Madam Members, on Monday 17 August, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, by his decision number 64 on the basis of a proposal from the Government, declared a state of legislative emergency. President of the Chamber of Deputies referred to in Article 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure Act decided to discuss: the Government's draft law on special voting methods in elections to regional councils and the Senate in 2020, the House's press 971, and the Government's bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, House press 972. [[Education law]] In a short hearing, the House press ordered 971 to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee, the House press 972 to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. It has set the Committees an unstoppable deadline to submit a resolution by 19 August, i.e. to this day by nine o'clock. [[10.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies we have in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of the legislative emergency lasts. I am opening the debate and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, is the first to report to the debate. He will be prepared as the second Vice-President of Vojtěch Pikal. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Calm down, please. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, has the floor. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u6	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you about Belarus. I have noted the activities of Members and received a letter from the Senate President Mr Vystrčil, which we will discuss here with Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček, who will give - or maybe already - an order from the Intelligence Officer to inform the President of the Senate of the situation. The situation is of course dynamic and I think that the Czech Republic, the Czech Government and I personally are actively involved in this matter. Poland took over the main role in our region. Poland had asked Charles Michel to convene an extraordinary Council of the European Council on Belarus some time ago. Then Charles Michel didn't accept it, he referred to September. I got involved last week, supported Prime Minister Morawiecký. Then I will apologize from the House, because at 11 o'clock we have a video conference of Prime Minister V4 and at 11.30 will join Prime Minister Pobaltí. And at 12 o'clock today, there will be a video conference of the European Council, which means all the premieres and presidents of the European Union. We were very active in this. I was communicating with Chancellor Merkelová, who called me on Sunday. I've spoken to Prime Minister Morawiecký repeatedly, Orbán, Macron. And finally, the V4 convinced Charles Michel to just run the video conferencing tonight. And it's a good thing we've been active in this, it's our business. Historically, I think we have relationships there - I personally know these people - so it's important that we're involved. I have a speech tonight at the European Council declaring that Belarusian citizens need our support, that the European Union must show that it is an action - and we are finally action - that it is not expected until the end of September. The main point is that Belarusian citizens have a chance to express themselves in free elections and say what they want for their country. We should not allow something similar to the rigged elections, the sharp fight against freedom of speech, the blocking of the Internet in our close neighbourhood on the Schengen border. I've spoken to our ambassador repeatedly. The Internet, torture, beatings, intimidation of peaceful protesters and citizens are still being shut down. And we see a great risk to our region and the values on which it stands, and we fear that the situation will deteriorate. What is most important from my point of view is that we are clearly saying that the Bělorus are supposed to decide for themselves where they want to be and where they want to go. And that's what we insist on. That means no one's supposed to impose on them where they belong, what they should be doing. This is really just about making free and democratic elections and actually making decisions. The situation in Ukraine should certainly not be repeated. So it's important here that Europe sends the signal. Of course, we support targeted sanctions, they are correct. It was decided at the level of foreign ministers, the European Council no longer confirms this. So targeted sanctions, condemnation of violence, that's all right, of course. And we'll see, of course, how this situation plays out. So the leaders are gonna talk about it tonight. Once again, the Czech Republic has actually been very active on this matter and it can be said that, together with Prime Minister Morawiecký, we have argued that the videoconferencing is not postponed, but that the European Council is an action, the European Union is an action. We're not in the habit, but this time we've done it, we've had a lot of conversations. Chancellor Merkelová - Germany has the Presidency - she also spoke to President Putin. And President Macron, and so on. So in this respect, I think, as I understood within our political spectrum, we have the same view. So we will certainly be happy if, even if there is a situation - I must say goodbye then - and there will be some resolution that the House will support us, our active steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now I ask - because that application by Vice-President Pikal is with priority right before the start of the debate - if he wants to take advantage of it, because otherwise the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura further claims with priority rights. Does he want to use it? [[Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I expected that at this point we should be talking about the need for legislative emergency, which I think is a consensus, but we have moved somewhere else, so I would like to speak with something that I wanted to speak to on the agenda. I don't know if it's gonna be that acceptable. I'll do it again later. I have already applied last week to propose on this occasion a new item on the agenda of this meeting, which has already been planned several weeks in advance, namely the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the situation in Belarus following the presidential elections. The aim of this item is to find some joint resolution by the House, which we can join with other countries such as Lithuania or the United Kingdom and others who have expressed their views on the results of the elections or have not taken them into account. In the same way, the European Union's foreign ministers have already agreed that there is a need to negotiate sanctions. To discuss this point, we have the promised support from STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, YES, ODS and ČSSD. So I believe we can discuss this. I don't want to read the resolution here at the moment. This should be the subject of that point, and if there is such broad support for it, I don't think we have to waste time at this point. I think it would be ideal to include this point as the third point of today's meeting, and when we discuss points 1 and 2 and interrupt them between second and third reading, that is the moment when we discuss this position and then move on to the block of vote. That's my proposal for this situation. I thank the Prime Minister for coming forward and saying so somehow. However, I think we would then discuss this in detail at that point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u9	I thank Vice-President Pikal. If I have no application for a state of legislative emergency, I can therefore vote whether the Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency. We'll decide that in vote number two. I'm still gonna go on. I cannot accept President Benešík's factual remark. Thank you. We will decide on the duration of the legislative emergency in the vote number 2 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 2 of 138 present for 127, against 3, the proposal was adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that, following the approval of this proposal, we will discuss the two prints in a state of legislative emergency. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 57th meeting, as shown on the invitation. Mr. ODS Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura is the first to report. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the situation in Belarus. Firstly, I want to appreciate the Prime Minister's position. The whole time he has acted and criticized the situation in Belarus, he has the support of civil democrats. I think it's supposed to sound. Very often I criticize the Prime Minister. In this case, I think it is progressing correctly and correctly expressing the mood of the majority of the Czech public. Of course, I support this, and I'm not gonna overreact about who's gonna propose that point first or second, so it's like a third point. I think it would be enough for the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a similar or identical resolution, as it did for our upper chamber. If we are watching images from Belarus, whether on television or on the Internet, this reminds us of the year 1989, and at this point it is decided whether Belarus will go through the scenario of Czechoslovakia from 1968 and will be used either by military or police force to disperse and dampen the liberal views of the citizens of Belarus, or rather that there will be something that took place in Czechoslovakia in 1989, when the Czech public has quite clearly spoken out against the Communist regime, and thanks to this we are sitting together in the democratic parliament almost 31 years since this period. I'm sure that's a good thing. I think that this proposal will receive support, and for us, I recommend that we adopt, as far as possible, the same resolution with the upper chamber. We don't have to beat ourselves up and precise ourselves and look for other words. I think there is a great political consensus here, both from the government, the Prime Minister, the Upper Chamber, and it would be good for the lower chamber to join, or the Prime Minister to interpret at the European Council meeting or with his fellow Prime Ministers from the V4 that it really, his opinion, has great support for almost the entire political spectrum. Then allow me to propose the inclusion of two more points. Since we've met, I think it's a good idea for us to discuss them. One's more formal. I would like to ask you to include a third reading of the Budgetary Rules Act. It is a House press of 567, I think that now fellow Members from the Ústí Region could be interested. The sale of the city hospital to the Ústí Region is prepared, however, one or two paragraphs of the Budgetary Rules Act need to be adapted to enable the process to be completed successfully. I think if we go back to second reading today, we'll buy time. Then, on the first day of September, a second reading of the law could take place and a third reading could take place in the second week of the Chamber of Deputies. I feel that in Ústí it is not the subject of a political struggle, and even in terms of time, so that the law is adopted in time, so I just suggest that we place this point. At the same time, I propose that we place it firmly at 12.30, that is the time allocated for third reading, and our proposal, if you approve, will be simple, we will propose to the Chamber of Deputies to return this press to second reading, so that the amendment that will enable the city hospital to complete the transfer to the county should be carried out properly, quickly and not be threatened by time. I suppose it could take five minutes tops, and I think that all colleagues from the Ústí Region, and not just from the Ústí Region, could support this and contribute to an accelerated discussion. And the third point, of course, is political subtext. On August 8th, two years have passed since our proposal for an amendment to the Income Tax Act, which abolishes the super gross wage and in which we propose to have 15% income tax. It's been more than two years. In the last few days and weeks, it's broken, I'd say, a bag of government officials saying how they want to cancel it, too. The Prime Minister said the best would be 15 percent. Prime Minister, we agree. Since we are in the second decade of August, the law is due on 1 January, so we propose that the first reading take place today, so that the legislative process and deadlines begin. I think that any amendments can then be applied at second reading or at least in the Committee on Budgets to discuss this draft law. Let me add a few more words to the proposal to remind you. The supergross wage has already been abolished by law once and should have been abolished by 1 January 2015. Before that, however, the government of the then government coalition, it was Prime Minister Sobotka's government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, canceled this proposal, so it's rather smiling when government officials say today: it's pasquil, it's terrible. But they, by their own votes, extended this law by at least six years. It's the sixth tax period when super gross wages shouldn't have been. The political dispute we are having is not about it, because I think citizens don't care if it's gross or super gross wages. The important thing is how much they have on the payroll. That's a key figure. Everything else is technology, calculation, etc. Once again, in public space, I think it was Minister Schillerová's position that 15% of the gross wage tax meant a 90-bn blackout. in the state budget. Everyone's been saying that ever since. We all take it as a fact, but I haven't found a methodology for that estimate anywhere. The tax is about to be reduced by 25 percent. Of the 20.1 if we take the gross wage to 15, 5.1 percentage points. If you look at the total national revenue from this tax in 2017, 2018, 2019, I really don't like the figures. I interviewed the Minister in writing about two weeks ago - I think it will be available at the next meeting so that we can all think about the material, but this may already be in the process of this bill - I asked her to bring us closer to the methodology of this calculation, because the figures just don't fit at first sight. And now I'm not talking about any effects on how much money is going to go back to the economy in terms of VAT, etc. What is particularly smiling is the efforts of colleagues in social democracy, as they say: we are budgetaryly responsible. Well, it's just, my dear colleagues from social democracy, you've approved a state budget deficit of 500 billion this year. Crowns. So I think from your mouth the words on budgetary responsibility are really smiling. I've noticed some semi-official proposals for three rates is fine, so I feel like some of the members of the government coalition are saying we're going to cut taxes, and they're not saying out loud, but so that no one can recognize it, and maybe we can increase someone's tax burden. We have prepared for this opening word only three numbers, respectively. only three examples. If we marry a taxpayer who applies a discount on two children, I would say such a standard example in Czech society. If someone really has a lower average income of approximately CZK 18,000 per month gross, then our proposal brings him CZK 11,000 extra net annually. If we take the average wage, we rounded it up, which means 34,000, it brings nearly 21,000 extra crowns to the taxpayer and family. And if we take a slightly higher above-average wage, but slightly, and that's 41,000 gross, then in the case of 15% gross wage tax when applying a discount on two children, the family would get CZK 25,000 per year. [[10.30 hours]] I think that many of us realize that it is necessary for people to invest in the coming difficult weeks and months and not to be afraid to spend. We believe that a much better way than the government's complex subsidy programs is to leave money to taxpayers. This simple proposal of ours brings it up, and believe it, although some do not believe it clearly, they still think that the government is wiser than the citizens, believe that taxpayers invest the money and apply it much better than any government. Any government, I would like to stress that. Not this particular government. So our proposal is to discuss, at first reading today, the House Press 254, a Member of the Income Tax Act amendment. I propose that this be paragraph 5, point 4 was the third reading of the House's press, 567, the Budgetary Rules Act, and item 3 should be the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the situation in Belarus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u11	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Before we continue with Mr Ondřej Benešík's speech, I apologise to Mr Antonín Staněk from today's meeting throughout the day, further apologize for the Chamber of Deputies for the family reasons of Lukáš Kolářík, who also apologizes. Now, then, Mr Ondřej Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u12	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, the KDU-ČSL announced this morning at a press conference that we would like to add a point to the situation in Belarus - I am glad what was said here from the mouth of my previous speakers from other clubs and, of course, also from the Prime Minister's mouth. We want to support this point, we will talk about how technically, procedurally, at which point this point will be included at today's meeting. However, KDU-ČSL has prepared a motion for a resolution on this subject to support the Government of the Czech Republic in its efforts to democratise Belarus. The resolution, the motion for a resolution, reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to stand clearly on the side of justice, democracy and human rights in Belarus and, in particular, to: I. called on the Belarusian Government to immediately release all detainees, to investigate police violence and the fates of dozens missing, as well as to negotiate the legitimate demands of protesters; II. actively acting in coordination with other countries, in particular the Baltic States and Poland, in the European Union for decisive action against Belarus, including the introduction of targeted sanctions against persons responsible for for forging elections, electoral violence and violations of human and civil rights; III. preparing addressed sanctions on visas and property against persons responsible for electoral manipulation and violations of human and civil rights in order to apply them bilaterally if the Belarusian regime does not respond to previous calls; IV. investigate the origin of flash grenades of Czech provenience, so-called intervention bombs, which according to reliable information are used by Belarusian intervention units and which caused numerous injuries; . set up a friendly policy towards those fleeing Belarus from political repression, and finally VI. continued to discuss further possible steps with Czech NGOs active in Belarus and representatives of the Belarusian democratic opposition. We will, of course, present this motion for a resolution and also present it in a detailed debate on this point, which we are prepared - and we will be very happy to support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u13	Thank you, my colleague Benešík. I would also like to say that Minister Zaorálek will vote with the replacement card number 22. There is also a registered colleague Pikal. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. So, for the record, I would like to apply to my earlier motion to put a new item on the agenda, namely the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the situation in Belarus after the presidential elections, and I propose that we place it firmly as the third point in today's negotiations, assuming that points 1 and 2 will actually be interrupted after the second reading, and then we will decide on those points when we will interrupt them. I suppose the right moment will be after point 3. So when the resolution was delivered, I will also read our motion for a resolution. Our motion for a resolution is for the Chamber of Deputies to take a stand, so the proposal would be: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. condemns the disproportionate police violence and brutality applied against Belarusian citizens in recent days; II. Notes that it does not recognise the official results of elections published by the State Election Commission and considers the most appropriate solution to repeat the presidential elections with democratic course and with the participation of international observers; III. declares that the Czech Republic lacks a legal standard that would allow the introduction of individual sanctions against those responsible for disproportionate violence; IV. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to actively enforce a similar sanction regime at European Union level; V. appeals to the Government of the Czech Republic to clarify the suspicion that there is an export and re-export of material from the Czech Republic, which is subject to a licensing procedure and is subject to an embargo of the European Union and which according to direct witnesses should have used the order forces of Belarus in the violent repression of demonstrations - these are the detonators mentioned here; VI. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take further necessary steps to promote dialogue in Belarus; VII. informed the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of the measures referred to above by 30 September 2020. I do not know if we will be reading this resolution in a detailed debate, on the contrary, I would have assumed that there would have been an ideal dialogue between clubs before, where there would be a consensus proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u15	I thank Vice-President Pikal. I have no further application for a debate on the agenda, and I can therefore end the debate if I do not see anyone else reporting. We will therefore vote on the whole agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. First, however, we must vote on individual proposals. The proposals that were identical, that is, the proposal to include another point on the situation in Belarus, if I simplify it, we would vote with one vote if the petitioners agreed. My colleague Benešík? A colleague of Pikal's? [[Nonverbal approval.]] Okay. And then President Stanjura's proposal on the other two points separately, because he has nothing to do with it. If anyone does not have a reservation, would we vote separately on these two steps - or, Mr President, do you want to vote on the third reading? So on its own, okay, so at first three separate proposals, then we would vote on the draft programme, according to the vote. First of all, in order to include a point on this agenda in a state of legislative emergency, which is not a law that the government is putting forward, so that we are aware of the legal status of this matter, and that is the situation in Belarus, in simple terms. [[with emphasis on:]] I've started voting number three, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 3, from 139 Members present for 98, against 18. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal to include the press 567, the third reading of the Budgetary Rules Act. We're going to decide the number 4 vote I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 4, from 140 in favour of 119, against 1. The motion was accepted. [[10.40 hours]] And now we're going to vote on the inclusion of... [[Call off the microphone.]] Tight for 12.30 hours. I'm sorry, but we had to put it on the agenda first. We will vote on the inclusion of program 254 and then in a firm press classification of 567. Now about the inclusion of the first reading of the print 254. I've started voting number five, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 5 of the present 140 for 62, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We will now decide that printing 567 would be firmly placed at 12.30 hours. It's the number six vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 6 of the present 140 for 65, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore discuss the agenda on an ongoing basis according to the development of the meeting. Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u16	I don't fully understand the last vote that I respect the results. But we have a set of hours for third reading. This proposal is not in a legislative emergency. That means if we don't make it to 2:00, we've put him in the wrong place. Because I've announced it's five minutes. If it is political agreement to return it to second reading, then by voting, we risk not actually discussing it today, and thus we will not have time to complete the necessary amendment at second reading. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-001-999.u17	That's right, Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, we can still vote in the course of the meeting to set aside other hours for the third reading than 9:00 to 14:00 on Wednesday. So that's what's still ahead of us. So now I'm saying that another apology has come up. From ten o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Radek Koten apologizes for personal reasons. We will now vote on the agenda of the meeting, as it was approved with the two added points, in the vote number 7 that I launched, and I ask who is in favour of the agenda of the meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 7 of the 141 Members present for 125, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and we will therefore follow this agenda. According to the approved agenda, we will now discuss item number one of our agenda. It's about
