ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u1	4. Government proposal for a law on certain adjustments to social security contributions and contributions to state employment policy and pension insurance in connection with emergency measures for the epidemic in 2020 /German press 787/ - shortened negotiations We will therefore act in a short session, and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová will state this point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly. This proposal is intended to facilitate tradesmen, self-employed persons, who, for the most part, lost their jobs or contracts day-to-day. This proposal, i.e. the remission of advances on pension insurance and the contribution to active employment policy for six months starting in March, means that, even now, if the proposal is approved, it is intended to help them overcome the critical period. For many businessmen, there has been a decline in sales, and we want to, once again, stress this, to forgive the minimum advances on pension insurance and the contribution to employment policy. It's not about moving away, it's about forgiveness. Those who have already paid for the month of March will be credited or charged to the good of the month of September, unless this measure is extended as appropriate. As far as pension rights are concerned, the six-month forgiveness will act as a so-called excluded period, which the tradesmen know very well about the time of the disease, and it will not have a negative impact on the amount of their pension. However, I stress that these are minimum contributions, which are paid by one million tradesmen 60 percent of them, and this concerns both the person on the main business and the other. The total costs, according to our estimate, are 2.5 billion per month, which means up to CZK 15 billion over the six months. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 787/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jan Bauer, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u4	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, everything relevant has already been said, so let me introduce you to the resolution of the Social Policy Committee which we adopted at this morning's meeting. Social Policy Committee The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill; 2. Asks the Chamber of Deputies to hold a detailed debate on all parts of the bill; 3. Asks the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on this bill by 19 no later than today; 4. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree to this Government Bill; 5. Instructs me, the Committee's rapporteur, to get to know the House and, in cooperation with all those concerned, to ensure that this goes well. He has made appropriate legislative technical adaptations, etc.' Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u5	I thank the rapporteur and we will now decide whether we will have a general debate, as proposed. Initiating vote (number 20). Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 78 logged in, sorry 80 Members. I am correcting: 98 Members registered, for 80, against no one. We've approved the motion. I am opening a general debate and, if there is no objection, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, I propose, pursuant to Paragraph 99, par. 7 to limit speaking time to five minutes, for both debates. There is no objection to such a procedure, so I am opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 98 Members registered, for 77, against no one. The motion was accepted. In the general debate, the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura, is with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD considers the government's proposal to forgive the payment of pension insurance advances to be insufficient, since it is basically only a delay in payment for many affected people. So a government proposal in the finals doesn't really help people. Of course, we also agree with the government's proposal, because everyone, albeit a little help to people, is welcome in the current state. At the same time, however, we propose an extension, which is to forgive insurance premiums for the entire amount of six months to all those who cannot carry out business as a result of emergency measures. I would like to call on the government to prepare such a proposal. In the future, however, we are not only concerned with the abolition of six advances, but with the overall reduction of the contributions. Then there will always be a question where to take on all the necessary expenses. I mean, where to get and not steal? The first one's not to steal. The other is taking where the money is and not taking it out of the pockets of people who are gonna miss it. In recent years, the state has had hundreds of billions of crowns stolen and hundreds of billions stolen by citizens and companies thanks to inexhaustible justice within our responsible judicial and execution mafia. If we count the damage from the coronavirus to at least tens of billions, then Germany owes us CZK 15,000 billion for the damage from the 80-year war. But the government still refuses to enforce the reparation, although the Němec themselves never questioned the debt, my friends, really never. Nor did the Czech Government question it, but it argues that it does not want to interfere with good relations with Germany. So he's not going to ask for a reparation. That is the answer to my interpelations, which I submitted to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Secretary of State Petříček on this matter. And the only people questioning debt are Sunshine politicians Demoblok and journalists. The same is true of thieves and impostors who, in large hand, robbed or cheated the state with government-party policies. I mean privatization or fraud when drawing subsidies. A shining example is Mr Zdeněk Bakala, who owns the magazine Respekt, Hospodářské noviny, Aktuálně.cz and pays for DVTV. In cooperation with ČSSD privatized OKD, pulled out billions of them and then left the OKD tuned to pospas. Since there was no compliance with the OKD contract, the first thing that attacks a normal person is to file a motion to cancel the contract and claim the property back plus compensation for loss of damage. Who thinks that some Czech government has ever thought of this, or even to do so, is a sad mistake. And why am I talking about this in relation to the pandemia of coronavirus? Because the money is offered here, where to get it into the state budget. But the problem is, for some reason, the government isn't doing it, which in the case of reparations, for example. The Polish and Greek governments have already published that they want to discuss reparations. But the Czech Government does not want to interfere with relations with Germany. And now we need money for our citizens. So I think there's a clear mosaic, and all we need to do is fill in the stones so that it scrambles for the Czech citizens. But unfortunately, the government does not want to intervene in this regard. So, to load a businessman or an ordinary citizen with a draconian tax penalty or insurance policy, the government can, but to enforce billionaires back stolen or otherwise abused, executed or privatized by the acquired property. What kind of government is this? But I'll still be a little optimistic about it. I believe that the current emergency will force our ruling politicians to begin to consider whether the damage should be paid again by innocent citizens, or we will take money from those who stole it from the state and us all. There was a time of need when we should want our money back with interest. And that's after the němec, who spent 80 years building Germany with our money from the Nazi-raped property, or people who buy journalists, lavish mansions, yachts and factories with their money from privatized trenches. It is a tragedy and incompetence of many Czech politicians and economists that they are unable to break out of the vicious circle, where they are still looking for money where it turns out that they are simply not, i.e. in the small payers of insurance, and they do not take it where they are. The state must be able to search and create its own resources. Communists did it, Karel IV did it, German governments do it now, even China. Only in the Czech Republic didn't anyone in the ruling elite ever realize that. I would just like to point out here that the Western countries, as well as the German Länder, have even shares in profitable private firms to collect. Moreover, the State has the possibility to use the so-called "classical investment" in addition to classical investment. natural monopolies such as energy, natural raw materials or telecommunications. The aggregate net profit increased by 9.46 billion year on year to banks and savings banks in the Czech Republic last year. CZK 90.9 billion. Crowns. And let me remind you that it's essentially profit from despair, because it's accounting money that banks haven't been able to make or tax optimize. And I'm coming to a conclusion. Banks made billions of crowns from Czech savers in record and risk-free terms, and their money was deposited in the Czech National Bank for a reprisal. Foreign banks have often also saved resources from their foreign mothers. Translated into Czech, a large part of their profits were paid by the Czech National Bank, i.e. we ordinary citizens who were shaved twice by banks. It is time to consider e.g. the creation of the Czech State Bank, which will manage citizens' money at minimum cost, and the profit will go back to the state for the benefit of citizens. Not only will the state be able to invest citizens' money without borrowing it from commercial entities. In short, it is good, on the one hand, that the government today and the opposition proposals will forgive a little of the people affected by the emergency situation around the corona, but what is important is that it does not end by the fact that the little that the government has graciously left in the people's pocket today will then take away and with proper interest. Entrepreneurs and citizens do not need loans, they need direct assistance. This is a long-term reduction in their payments to the State or, where appropriate, energy monopolies. In short, the government should have the courage to directly forgive as many people as possible specific payments. And he doesn't have that courage or taste even in this emergency condition, and that's wrong. So I hope that the government will step up in this and we will really help as many working and decent people in the Czech Republic as possible who are now in financial and social distress. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u7	Thank you. Just to be clear, because some of you were looking at me. Yes, even in this case, I have released a five-minute limit, but in the case of priority-right speakers, it is only indicative. Please, Mr Munzar is next. Mr. Kaňkovský will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we have studied this press in detail and, in my best opinion, it is about the remission of mandatory advances, not just the displacement, so maybe it is a good thing that it should be said here. I would like to appreciate for the ODS the proposal to forgive the compulsory advances on pension insurance premiums and the contribution to state employment policy at least up to minimum advances, although, of course, you can discuss with me whether this amount is sufficient. For self-employed people, for these people, for businessmen, it is a very difficult time. They have to have closed establishments, they have no or only low sales, yet they have to meet their obligations, they have to pay rents, they have to pay energy. If they employ someone, they have to pay wages for it, they have to pay off loans and at the same time they have to look after themselves and their families. Here it was said several times that whoever quickly gives twice gives. But sometimes it's more important not to take money from people and leave it in their wallets. For businessmen, it will be a great relief so that they do not have to make certain payments. I'm sure it's better than the trade being interrupted and registered at the employment offices. I am glad, Madam Secretary, that the government is aware of this, but it may not fully appreciate that it will take some time for the self-employed to recover financially, so it will also take some time for their customers to recover financially. It will also affect their business after the emergency. Many will build their business from the start and the deadline until August for the remission of social security in the amount of minimum advances, as the government puts forward, is a very short time for this. Today we do not know how long these measures will last, and I believe and we all believe that this will be as short a period as possible. But after the emergency, it is necessary to have a long enough period so that the economy, people, tradesmen can breathe in so that they can recover so that they can stabilize their business and activities. The restart will not be day by day, and we need businessmen to help start private consumption so that they start shopping for themselves to start investing again in the development of economic activities. This is what our economy will need, and we need to give them sufficient time. Therefore, I propose to extend for ODS the term of proposed social security waiver for the Ministry from March until December of this year, including, instead of six months, as the government proposes, ten months. We understand that this will lead to a state budget outage, but the money will return to the state budget the faster the economy stabilizes. And it is the CFI that is one of the backbones of the economy that we have to help and we have to keep it. Therefore, I would like to support this proposal, which I will apply to in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u9	Thank you. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský is next. Mr Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u10	Good afternoon. Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Press Club 787. KDU-ČSL will support this government proposal, which we have already announced at the press conference in the morning and at the Committee on Social Policy. We very intensively and sensitively perceive the current tense situation of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and note the concerns of self-employed people towards future weeks and months. And we also feel that the role of the CFI is essential for our country in a number of respects. And it is not only an economic aspect, but it is also that without the activity of self-employed workers we cannot imagine many things. It is not only some services, but it is also the production of some products that we are otherwise unable to provide. And if some small and medium-sized entrepreneurs collapse, of course, this will have a considerable impact on the social side too, that is, it will manifest itself negatively in the area of employment with all the impacts that it may have. That is why we see help from this group of people as important as help from employers and larger companies. Help from the state needs to go hand in hand. I believe that we need to offer assistance to all the groups mentioned at this point, step by step, and that the assistance from the state should be comprehensive. I want to call on the government in this regard, and that may not have been here today, but I think it has a very close connection with this, that what we can do at the moment, what the government can do at the moment, is support for Czech companies. We deal here every day in hospitals and other health establishments, but also in other critical infrastructure segments with a lack of protective equipment. And I would like to call on the government, first of all, to address the Czech companies that offer themselves and offer themselves to be able to produce disinfectants, that they are able to produce drapes, that they are able to produce protective suits and some of them are so much needed respirators, which make them the most hungry. And the impact will be twofold. Firstly, we can be self-sufficient in this regard - and it should be said that the pandemic will not end in two or three weeks. We do not know how the situation will develop in an acute phase, but we also do not know how the epidemiological situation will develop in the coming months. Therefore, relying only on imports I see as a mistake at the moment. That is why I want to call on the government once again to do this: address Czech companies, you have the option, and even the companies offer themselves. And really, the effect is going to be double. We will have more protective equipment and we will support Czech companies directly, we will support employment and we will give these companies at least a hallmark of stability at this very uncertain time. So once again, I'm going to sum up for the KDU-ČSL club. We will support this amendment, but at the same time there is an appeal to the government to reflect on other social impacts not only on the OSVČ group, but also on other subjects and on other groups of residents. It's very important. The government needs to encourage families to support small and medium-sized companies, to support both employees and large employers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u11	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that I am glad that the government is fulfilling what we as pirát have asked for last week, i.e. the remission of social and health insurance to those affected by the current crisis. Other citizens, such as those who lost their jobs during the probationary period, worked on DPP, DPČ and so on, must be supported. Another thing that can support the self-employed person is, for example, deferment of instalments. I am glad that the members of the Czech Banking Association have listened to my request to introduce the possibility of deferment of mortgages and other loans. As far as I know, individual banks are slowly introducing this possibility. At the same time, however, I would like to ask the banks to provide real assistance to their clients, i.e. without additional sanctions or fees. I also sent the Minister of Finance a proposal that should help to obtain acute financial assistance to civil servants and other people in need, while at the same time being fair to all citizens of the Czech Republic, and let us increase the tax discount on the taxpayer, allowing it to be paid early as an emergency aid to the state due to the Coronavirus. At present, many citizens of the Czech Republic will face existential problems due to the Coronavirus. The state should provide funds simply and quickly to all citizens who will need help in the coming months. At this point, therefore, I propose that the Ministry of Finance consider the possibility of increasing the tax discount on the taxpayer and the possibility of early payment from April 2020. This would be a temporary equivalent of basic income. [[16.20 hours]] The current tax discount on the taxpayer for 2020 amounts to CZK 24,840 per year, and despite inflation growth over the last ten years, it has not increased since 2008. At this point, I therefore propose to increase the tax discount on the taxpayer in line with Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's proposal to CZK 33,000 a year. At the same time, for persons from 18 years of age who do not receive a pension or any other form of government pension, a form of discount would change to bonus for the 2020 crisis year. This would ensure that even people without income receive the funds. The State should then allow early payment of the tax bonus in the next month of a maximum of CZK 33,000 in several monthly payments, where the maximum monthly payment would be CZK 11,000 and the last payment would be sent by the State at the latest in December of this year. Similarly, additional tax bonuses such as child tax bonuses could be paid. All citizens of the Czech Republic could submit an application for early payment to their financial office electronically, setting up a data box free of charge at every Czech Point. Electronic submissions would help reduce the concentration of people in financial offices. Employees who have signed a declaration of income tax on dependants and have already applied part of the discount would have reduced the maximum paid part by the discounts already applied. Billing of tax discounts, bonuses, will take place by default by submitting a tax return for 2020, where possible payment of tax will take place. In addition, the current amendment to MY taxes is an attractive use of electronic communication with the public administration. Newly created data boxes will not be required to use mandatory data boxes and next year, on the basis of my proposal, the deadline for submitting an electronic tax return will be extended by one month. The advantage of this solution is fair access to all citizens, in which funds reach the necessary almost immediately, the low administrative intensity and the assumption that those who do not really need funds will not be asked because they will receive the funds at the latest when submitting a tax return makes this option easy to implement. I estimate the cost of increasing tax discounts and extending the range of beneficiaries to around CZK 50 to 60 billion, with up to 35 billion likely to return to the budget through tax payments, compulsory insurance and other charges. The actual cost for the state budget of the measure may be around CZK 29 billion. I believe that the proposal is feasible, advantageous for citizens and the state and is effective in the current situation. I am pleased that many entrepreneurs and research institutions show their flexibility in adapting to new requirements in the manufacture of protective equipment and medical devices. The technical university in Liberec is top in the field of nanovláken and now invites other Czech producers to the maximum possible production of nanovláken with their help. For example, the company Safety Nano Protect in Česká Kamenice now manufactures drapes made from nanotubes. TU also wants to produce nanofiber filters that could be used in homemade cotton masks in pockets, as stated on the rouge.org . As well as academics from the Czech Technical University in Prague begin production of respirators with the highest level of protection, tested the pulmonary fan, similarly a team of volunteers Covid19 with the help of Prusa Research began production of protective shields for health professionals and others. Let's support these businessmen. Let us buy Czech and European products and let the state support them, for example. pre-order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u13	Thank you. And now it is Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová's turn, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. We, of course, give a favourable opinion on this government proposal for the KSČM parliamentary club. We consider it actually the second part of the relief for self-employed people. And I'm also glad that you're here to mention, as well as other colleagues, the support for other employers, I'm glad that the government itself has approached the Antivirus program. I think that the five parts that the Minister mentioned not only at yesterday's press conference, but also today are important, and I would like to see it spread, because as we discussed it, it really covers the current needs of those employers, i.e. In order to keep their employees and at the same time to meet the conditions that are in the program, and especially to keep companies employing us going, even though they are starting to have significant problems at this time, and as we have talked to some, they are really expecting two or three months and they would already have an existential problem. So for us, for the self-employed, we are happy that the government is taking this measure, and we take it again as one of the first measures, probably following the development of the situation next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u15	Thank you. President Pekarová Adamová in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u16	Thank you. I would also like to express my opinion to TOP 09 and really, very briefly, to appreciate this proposal, which we support, as well as to support a number of those proposals presented by fellow Members from other Members' clubs. We proposed to take this step as a basic package about 14 days ago, but the package that we presented to the government also has other points relating to the CFI, and we would like the government to take into account at least some of them. One of the essential ones for those who are really completely subdued in their activities today, because they have to, because it's from the government's regulation, so it seems reasonable to extend the aid even in the form of one-off financial assistance. It is meant to be really only those who are affected by this current situation so that they had to shut down their operations completely. So it will definitely involve services such as hairdressing salons, such as catering services, such as a number of cultural, artistic professions, which are also often people who work on so-called. I'm a tradesman. So we think that aid of at least 45 thousand crowns should be granted to these people one-time, i.e. quietly spread over three months after three instalments, but in order to allow them to compensate for their situation at all, because even if we support this proposal, it is certainly good, so alone it would not be enough and for a large part of them the problem will not only be in these days, but also in future weeks it will grow and it will be worse and worse. So that's another incentive for us to deal with in the next few days or weeks. And as I said before, we sent these suggestions to the government, to individual ministers. Minister Havlíček, who was the only minister who responded to them, did not specifically comment on this, but I would consider it a good thing that the government should consider it, and I would be very grateful and thank you for that in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u17	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. Interest in the final words after the general debate? Neither the Secretary nor the rapporteur. So I'm initiating a detailed debate. Mr Vojtěch Munzar is the first to sign up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u18	Thank you. As I have announced, I am signing up for the amendment that is being conducted in our system under number 4644. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-004-004.u19	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am ending the debate in detail. There's no interest in final words. So I'm ending the second reading of this proposal, and I'm interrupting this point until all the second reading of today's agenda is discussed. Before discussing the Government's draft law on special rules for admission to and termination of certain types of education in the 2019/2020 school year, the House's press 786, according to Section 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening up to this debate. No one is to be heard, the debate is closed, and we will proceed to the vote. We are therefore voting to discuss this bill in a short hearing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 99 Members registered, for 80, against 1. The motion was accepted. [[16.30 hours]] Opening point number
