ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 /German press 789/ - shortened negotiations According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 5 We should assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. I'm opening the debate. Does anyone report for a debate on this subject? I assume that no one is, because you are reporting on the board until the debate to that point, so if no one is reporting for the debate, I am ending the debate, we will proceed to the vote. I'll go on in advance. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, House printing 789, in a short hearing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26. Registered 100 Members, for 85, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. So we will now proceed to discuss the Government's bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, House printing 789, shortened negotiations. The proposal submitted will be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, who is ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the amendment to the State Budget Act. I guess I don't have to explain to any of you that the situation we're in right now is completely unprecedented. This applies to both the domestic and the world economy. Tough measures taken around the world have one single common objective, thereby ensuring the health of the population. But this brings high social and economic costs. We have recently taken a number of emergency measures to alleviate them. In addition to ensuring the health and safety of each of us, we cannot forget also the maintenance of high employment, cash in the economy and, of course, the reduction of the negative social effects of the ongoing pandemic. The advantage of the Czech Republic is that our economy, its public budgets, but also monetary policy is in a condition that will make this situation stand. Very few economies in the world have such favourable conditions to handle all of this. The World Trade Forum even called the macroeconomic condition of the Czech Republic the best in the world. A mix of very low unemployment rates, low government debt and its surplus management, its own monetary policy and an extremely healthy banking sector fill us with legitimate optimism that we will successfully overcome the current situation. I therefore approach you with the proposal for an amendment to the State Budget Act for 2020, which was approved by the Government yesterday, and I ask for its approval. This year, the amendment envisages a total revenue of 1,488.3 billion. CZK 1 688.3 billion and expenses. I propose CZK 200 billion and state budget deficit. Kč. The amendment responds to the expected decline in tax revenues in particular and on the expenditure side creates room for higher spending to ensure the health of the population, support of companies, businessmen, employees, in short, our entire economy. Of course, we can now start discussing the instruments we are doing this, but there can hardly be any controversy as to whether or not we have to do this. However, let me assure you that the government is proceeding fully in line with the latest OECD recommendations when choosing stabilisation measures to support the economy, and we will continue to do so. [[17.30 hours]] And now closer to the amendment. The main change on the expenditure side of the state budget is the increase in the government's budgetary reserve by 59.3 billion. Kč. This appropriation will be used operationally to prevent the spread and resolution of the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic. Given that the current situation and the removal of its consequences will be of a longer-term nature, it is not possible at this point to say with some certainty how much financial resources will be required by the rescue and security system component of the state or by what additional requirements will arise for the state's expenditure caused by the current situation. The method of providing the necessary resources from the government's budgetary reserve through the discussion and decision of the government ensures the necessary flexibility and consistency in strategic management. The amendment then strengthens the budget of sickness insurance benefits by 10 billion, while the pension expenditure budget remains at the current level. The total balance of the MPSV chapter is improved by 15 billion in total. As a result of the higher borrowing needs of the state, it is 5 billion. increase the expenditure of the chapter State debt. Under the necessary austerity measures, expenditure is reduced by 2,9 billion. the Ministry of Defence budget, where some purchases of military equipment will be postponed, which are not absolutely essential given the current situation for the country's defence. 1.5 billion. costs related to fare discounts are reduced, which will naturally not be used due to limited travel and can therefore be used for a different purpose. On the revenue side of the state budget there is a reduction in tax revenue in total of 55,7 billion. CZK, which is due to the expected decline in economic activity not only in the Czech Republic, but also in our important business partners as well as in the measures contained in the Ministry of Finance's liberalisation package. In view of the planned waiver of advances on pension insurance and state employment policy for the CFI and the expected decline in wage and salary growth in the economy, the amendment to the state budget provides for lower social security premiums by 25 billion. Kč. Since, in the context of the current situation, the planned implementation of the frequency auction for mobile mobile networks cannot be expected within the expected time frame, the planned budget revenues are reduced by 7 billion. About 1.5 billion. income will be reduced due to the loss of part of the dividends of Prague Airport, a.s. Other transfers are given by budgetary technical operations such as: the use of the Chapter of the Operation of State Financial Assets for the Financing of Pensions. Dear colleagues, it is now a good time to use the fiscal space that we have created in the last year by budgetary responsibility. The Czech economy is strong, the state of our public finances is good. The banking sector is extremely healthy, government budgets have unprecedented reserves and health insurance companies are also doing great. We have a pillow that will make the domestic economy feel better. Thanks to this pillow, we will be in international competition among bonita creditors who will not lose control of the sustainability of their public finances and thus find themselves in a debt trap. The state debt in 2019 was 1 640 billion. Crowns. Its increase was planned for a deficit of 40 billion. CZK 1 680 billion. Kč. In view of the change in the deficit, there will also be an overall increase in debt by 200 billion. CZK 1 840 billion. CZK, this is from last year's 29.1 percent of GDP to 33.2 percent of GDP. In terms of international comparison, the Czech Republic will still remain among the most fiscally disciplined EU economies, even without taking into account the likely deterioration in reference states. In addition to sound public finances, the Czech Republic also has a very favourable risk structure of state debt, for example because we have issued historically large volumes of bonds with a long maturity of around ten years over the past two years. Moreover, the reduction in absolute and relative state debt in the last six years will result in over 200 billion repayment of old debts this year. CZK, which is at least since 2010. Last year, these instalments amounted to 290 billion. CZK, in 2018 more than 300 billion. CZK 100 billion. more than this year. Thanks to this, the government has much more room for financing the crisis deficit this year. For the purposes of the state budget, the Ministry of Finance also updated the macroeconomic outlook. Assuming the pandemic is managed during the second quarter, the Czech economy should report a quarter-on-quarter decline in the first and especially in the second quarter of 2020. In the second half of 2020, economic activity should begin to revive. However, at least the third quarter will still be dampened by developments in the most affected European economies - Italy, Spain. In these, the financial problems of households and businesses are likely to emerge. According to the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic forecast, the economy should thus fall by 5.1 % in 2020 with a year-on-year decline in employment of 1.2% and an increase in unemployment from 2 percent in 2019 to 3.3%. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and please help the Czech Republic to pass the biggest test our countries face in their modern history by approving this necessary amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u3	The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 789/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, let me introduce you to the motion for a resolution of the budget committee of the 37th meeting of 24 March 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, House printing 789, for discussion in a state of legislative emergency. "After the opening words of the Minister of Finance, the report and after the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the draft law, with the view that only representatives of individual members of the Czech Republic may speak in it with their opinion; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies terminate its negotiations no later than 24.00 on 24 March 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that, with a government bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, House Press 789, agreed without comments; V. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to establish a rapid programme for direct financial support for self-employed workers; VI. This is a provision relating to the Ministry of Finance vis-à-vis the Budget Committee - asking the Minister of Finance to inform the Budget Committee twice a month of the decisions of the Government and the Finance Minister concerning the drawing up of the Government's budgetary reserve; VII. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'; Such a motion for a resolution by the Committee on Budgets and the Chamber of Deputies will have to decide by voting on I, where there is a proposal for a general debate in which only representatives of individual Members' clubs can speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u5	Thank you. And we will now decide whether to hold a general debate. So I'm gonna go on. Sorry. With priority rights? You don't have to give priority rights. I haven't opened the debate yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u6	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose an alternative to this resolution so that more Members can speak, not just one. This means, let us put this as a counter-proposal that would be voted first, and if our counter-proposal fails, we will vote the resolution as proposed by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u7	First, we will vote on whether we will even have a general debate. I'll call you to a vote. [[Gong.]] We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. There's an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. Log in again with your voting cards. There's plenty of us here, so I'm taking the vote. Who is in favour of having a general debate as such? Who's against it? In voting order number 27, 72 Members registered, for 50, against none. The motion was accepted. I am now opening up a general debate. We have two suggestions right now. One proposal was that, under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, this was in line with the resolution, or we would vote against the proposal. We will vote on the counter-proposal that one representative will not perform for each club, but an unlimited number of representatives. Am I getting this right? [[Yes.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 28, 79 Members signed in, for 10, against 49. The motion was denied. And now, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, if there is no objection, I propose, in accordance with Article 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, that the Council of Ministers should be able to take a decision on the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure. 7 to limit speaking time to five minutes, for both debates. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 29, 81 Members registered, for 79, against none. The motion was accepted. We are in a general debate and now I have factual points - Mr Výborný, Mr Munzar, but I think that is a mistake. So now in the general debate, I have two priority rights here, and then I got a report from Mr Skopeček, but you don't apply with priority rights, so normally in order. Am I getting this right? And it's not even electronically logged in. So first with priority rights Vice-President of the House and Chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, second with priority rights President of the SPD member Radim Fiala. You are designated for the club with priority rights, so then Mr. Mr. Skopeček. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Madam and Gentlemen, I will be brief. I understand that if the state budget deficit changes from 40 billion. to 200, that's a big change, that's basically a blank check for the government, especially when the government's budget reserve is added to the amount that the Vice-President of the Government and the Finance Minister here will suggest. So it is up to us whether we are able to issue such a blank check and whether we all feel the same way about the situation. Probably not. But on the other hand, we realize that we are in a state of legislative emergency and that the situation can be even more dramatic, especially if we look around us, whether it's more remote places like Italy, or close places like Germany, or the peaceful tranquility of Great Britain, and a change of 180 percent from day to day. I am convinced that we will have to look at the law at least once more, although the change is likely to be adopted, because when I look at the changes that are in individual chapters of the state budget, in individual departments, it seems to me to be very unbalanced. And I don't have to talk about my favorite topic I've been leading in this House since June of last year, whether with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs around IT contracts, which even after eight months, journalists noticed and started writing about them in February, when I presented it here almost a year ago. I also commented more than three quarters of a year ago on the possible purchase of some military technology, which seemed more than non-standard to me, while only 2,9 billion are currently taken from the Ministry of Defence. and we're leaving contracts that testify to the style and arming of an army that would help abroad rather than in the domestic environment, and I don't know if we should leave the original focus of the Ministry of Defence investment purchases in the state it is, or whether we should change it. Now I'm not saying it's supposed to go down from 75 billion. 25 billion. and save money on purchases, I'm just saying, if all the investments that go there are the most necessary for the role of the Army of the Czech Republic, which we can demand from it in emergency or crisis management. All of this, in my opinion, is for consideration. Likewise, the question of the state's own material reserves is, of course, to consider. And I talked about it at least since September last year, when the state budget was being prepared, that some things in the health sector should work differently in the state's material reserves than it turned out this February. It is clear that new threats or hybrid threats, as they are called, can, of course, cause crises in the world quite unprecedented and unsolved so far. [[17.50 hours]] I am convinced, and precisely because I am comparing the situation with the surrounding states, whether with Austria, Germany, France or Spain and Great Britain, that we can, in a way, issue the Bianko cheque to the government, but on condition that it is regularly, I think, in the budget committee resolution it is, to address the situation and use of the funds that will be entrusted to the government. I say this because I can have specific individual reservations, but on the other hand, we want the government to resolve matters quickly, responsibly and for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. On the one hand, we cannot distribute and, on the other hand, completely cut the revenue of the state budget, here in some of the previous proposals, at least four texts, some colleagues and colleagues demonstrated very strongly. I believe that the responsible approach of the Chamber of Deputies to the state budget, its control, is appropriate and that we should discuss this proposal in an emergency and approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u9	I will now request a speech with the priority right of the President of the SPD Membership Radim Fiala and will prepare Mr Jan Skopeček with the priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few words on the state budget. It is clear and logical that, in the situation in which we are in, the state budget must admit changes, i.e. changes that mean an increase in deficit, i.e. deepening the debt of the Czech Republic. But let me take a short look at the past. For several years, we have pointed out here that we are mismanagement of the funds available to the State and available at the time of economic growth. We have long been alerting tens of billions that they have dug up, for example. solar barons that receive from Brussels and who knows where serving political non-profit organizations come from, billions that absorb inclusion, still swelling government or an unfair social system supporting the parasitism of inadaptable citizens. We are still criticizing the completely flawed concept of an army that requires expensive purchases of technology for foreign intervention. The commitments given by this government to the European Union's climate idiotism are absolutely insane in the future. I have to mention these things because we need to be instructed out of this crisis. In my opinion, nothing will be as it was and we must rethink the strategy of the Czech Republic, both political and economic. This strategy must include the restoration of the capacities of our state that are necessary for crisis management. This is the capacity of safety, health, food and energy. If we do not continue to have serious discussions on this subject with specific outputs, it will be a crime on the future of our state. I believe that we will talk about these fundamental topics as a key lesson in the current situation, including a rethink of the future of the Czech Republic in relation to the current form of European integration, as the European Union has completely discredited itself in this form. We said we'd be constructive. So we will also constructively proceed to the draft of the Ministry of Finance for the adjustment of the budget. We know that the government must have scope to address the crisis, so we will help to create the scope for managing the crisis, including its economic effects, by supporting this adjustment. I just want to say, Madam Secretary, that it is necessary to continue working on the concept of economic development in the Czech Republic. I'm sure it won't be easy, but I personally feel like the operation with the drapes and other things is too busy with the government, and the government cares about what's going on today and tomorrow, instead of caring about what's going to happen in six months. And I very much wish, Madam Secretary, that you would not stand here in September and raise the deficit again by another billion. So good luck to all of us. Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u11	So now with priority rights on behalf of Mr Jan Skopeček, Member of the ODS Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u12	Thank you very much. Allow me, too, to make a few comments on the budget for the ODS. I thank the Minister, on the one hand, that she fulfilled the call of the Committee on Budgets, which asked her to come up with an amendment to the State Budget Act at her previous meeting. I think the amendment is necessary. In fact, the first two months of cash flow have shown that the budget is not going well and that even without coronavirus, the amendment would be needed. I'm not going to argue with the Minister and argue about income, she assumes a 5% decline in the economy, which I think is an optimistic number, but I don't think it makes sense to argue about it, it will depend on the extent to which the crisis will be long and how restrictive measures will last. I'm sorry, I can't breathe. [[Minister - a comment from the rapporteur's desk.]] No, no, no, it's okay, we can do this. As far as the spending side of the budget is concerned, I have two reservations. One reservation is that, in our opinion, the budget lacks direct assistance from the CFI. However, my colleague, President Stanjura, has proposed a resolution which the Committee on Budgets supported with all its votes and where we ask the Minister to come up with a programme which would mean direct support for self-employed persons. My second reservation on the expenditure side is that there are no savings on the expenditure side, respectively. the savings proposed by the Minister are very low, amounting to CZK 4.4 billion, dominantly in the defense department. We think that the Minister of Finance, the responsible Minister of Finance, would, at a time when he faced such a difficult situation, such a crisis, beside logically higher spending and, in addition to the logically anticipated reduction in income, come up with savings at some relevant level. We are talking about savings of CZK 4.4 billion when the government proposes to increase the state budget by CZK 70 billion to CZK 1.7 trillion. So compare the figures - CZK 70 billion extra, CZK 1.7 trillion total expenditure after the amendment, savings of CZK 4.4 billion. In this sense, in the context of a detailed debate, I will read the resolution, where we will invite the government as the Chamber of Deputies to prepare another amendment to the Act at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which would mean a 5 per cent savings on the expenditure side, except for the chapter of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the ministries that fight the most with the Corona crisis. I understand that we can't avoid a higher debt, I don't think there's a dispute about that. However, when I hear these eulogies, it doesn't matter how much we get in debt today, that we have the fiscal space and that we have one of the lowest debt, I warn against it. The debt must be reasonable to help the economy, but not to owe the future to several generations. As far as the budget is concerned, he responds, of course, to the measures the government has taken. If I were to evaluate this systemically, I would also be missing an increase in expenditure and a fiscal impulse in the form of tax cuts. That the Minister often reiterates that public finances are in perfect shape, so I think she revealed herself by calling on a quick amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank, which should buy new government bonds yesterday in the Events. This has always been the case with countries that were no longer able to finance debt from private sources. I don't think public finances are healthy, and this is proof of it. So that's our club's position. I will appeal very much for the accompanying resolution to be adopted, which calls on the Chamber of Deputies, respectively. Government to save. And if it's accepted, we're willing to talk about budget support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u13	So now Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will appear on behalf of the Pirates Club and prepare for the TOP 09 President Miroslav Kalousek. Ambassador, you have five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss whether the estimate is realistic. This is extremely difficult to judge at the moment, because we still don't know how long the crisis will take. Someone can miraculously find a cure, or the weather can improve, and the virus won't survive, or, on the contrary, the situation will last with us for a very long time, which at this point is very difficult to predict. For this reason, the essential parameters for me are the ones that allow this proposal for the government. The proposal substantially strengthens the government's budgetary reserve, a chapter that can serve as a source for the rapid measures to help the economy, businesses and businessmen and others, and further strengthens the possibilities of state guarantees for EGAP in order to guarantee loans. I'm sure that's wise. I am putting forward one amendment, a proposal that seeks to draw the attention of the government to an area I think it forgets a little bit, and these are the most threatened groups, the groups that are most at risk from this crisis. Who do I mean? First, businessmen and entrepreneurs, especially small ones, who either had to quit their business as a result of the collapse of demand or as a result of government regulations and actually do not have income now, whether they are small businessmen in the field of tourism or, for example, restaurant operators. In particular, those who do not have employees are not receiving any compensation at the moment, except that we will forgive them for the payment of social and health insurance. So this is one big group. But other groups - people on the job agreement or on the work agreement, people in executions, people who got fired during the probationary period - typically because of the crisis was the easiest to get rid of employees who are still in the probationary period. A big topic very soon can be the question of foreign workers hired through agencies who are now being given mass statements, and will need to finance their return to their homeland, or some basic provision of accommodation and food. There are a number of groups, and we have not yet heard of government measures aimed at any targeted aid to these groups. For this reason, I propose that we strengthen the budgetary reserve by an additional 25 billion in order to ensure the basic needs of these people. So to strengthen the functioning of small businessmen and the most endangered groups of people who were poor before this crisis, and now threatens to fall completely to the bottom, and it will be extremely expensive to bring them back to normal functioning. Here I think we need to focus attention, strengthen the finances, because, as a result, we will save money in the long run. And it needs to be done as quickly as possible, because in two or three months, a number of small companies will no longer exist. Thanks for the support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u15	I will now request the speech of Mr Miroslav Kalousek as a representative of the TOP 09 and subsequently prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová for STAN. Yes, yes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. So please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u16	I'm sorry. Thank you for the floor. Just a few notes. First on income - they are estimated very optimistic in my opinion. But I don't want to argue about it, because I understand that the prognosis is not more likely. I'm asking if the Ministry of Finance has any strategy in place in the event that the revenue drop would be even deeper than the draft amendment suggests. I don't want an answer now, but I'm asking you to think, because the risk is great. [[The speaker breathes very hard and loud.]] The second point concerns the saving of existing expenditure, which is in the approved draft budget. I'll confess... I'm sorry, I'm so sick of breathing through that drape. I confess that I am very disappointed that I assumed at least some elementary effort to save operating expenditure in individual chapters. I assumed at least an immediate stop-stop-state would be announced to recruit civil servants. I just assumed something. I find it very unfair that while businessmen wonder if they will survive, companies find themselves in a very critical situation, the state authorities are absolutely happy. They are not affected by any crisis, there are no savings. And I think it's just very wrong that it's unfair. The third point concerns the priorities according to which the government approached both support and somewhere saving. The only real savings, and I consider it a very poor savings, is savings at the Ministry of Defence, almost CZK 3 billion, 2.9 billion. So we can state as a demonstration of very bad priorities that the government is willing to save twice as much on defense of the state as it is willing to save on fare discounts that it does not want to cancel. Sorry, that's a sick priority! The last point concerns relatively great disappointment that there is not a single crown in the budget for direct compensation to those tradesmen whom we have banned from producing day-to-day. Everyone has a problem with sales these days. But there is quite a large proportion of entrepreneurs and businessmen the state has said to: "You must not start tomorrow! We just forbid you! At the same time, there is not one crown in that budget that we would compensate for our own ban. Compared to how generous the support for cursarbeit to large companies is, it also seems very unfair to me. I don't criticize support for big companies. I criticise that the tradesmen are under this support by several orders, and it also seems unfair to me. If I sum it up, I'm gonna overdo it a little bit, but I'm sorry, I can justify it, so the three fundamental priorities of the amendment to the State Budget Act are the support of big companies and their employees - which is okay, secondly, the completion of the liquidation of businessmen - which is not okay, and thirdly, the challenge of our commitments in the North Atlantic Alliance - which is also not okay. I therefore amend two amendments. One suggests that the Ministry of Defence's expenses remain to the original amount and savings are only realised in those tax discounts, which means that we would cut not by 1.5 billion, but by 4.4 billion. I have already announced the second amendment to the amendment to the Health Insurance Act, when we should cover the fallout of about 10 billion, which will be from the remission of sickness insurance, from the government's budget reserve. So please support these two amendments. And I will join them in a detailed debate. Thank you. And if you'll excuse my overbreath.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u17	Mrs Věra Kovářová will now appear, because, in agreement with the KSČM, President Filip has actually exhausted the quota of one per page, so it is all agreed with Mr Dolejš. And then Mr Jan Bartošek will be prepared. Please, your five minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this proposal for the Mayors and Independents Club. Let me also go back in time to December last year, when we approved the state budget for 2020. That's when we approved, virtually. The coalition approved a deficit of 40 billion. Crowns. We have criticised this deficit significantly. We have talked about the fact that such a deficit is not possible at a time of economic growth and that it is necessary to save for worse times. We always got the answer that it wasn't necessary, that everything was OK and that we had nothing to worry about. Three months have passed, and the worse times seem to have come. It turns out that even a miniature creature such as coronavirus can devastate the economy in a few days. We have a deficit of 200 billion on the table today, so that the government can respond quickly to this serious situation and take measures to mitigate these consequences of the coronation. Mayors and independents will give the government a chance. We will give her a chance to implement these measures and try to avoid a sharp decline in GDP and, of course, a significant increase in unemployment. However, what we must criticise is the lack of measures for self-employed workers, for whom income has fallen from one day to the next. That is why I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets has unanimously approved the resolution on the creation of a pillow precisely in these cases. The government is increasing the government's budget reserve in a significant way, and that is why I am also glad that the Committee on Budgets has agreed that the Ministry of Finance, and the Minister has gladly agreed to this - is that correct? - has agreed that the Committee on Budgets will receive information once every 14 days on how the Government will deal with this reserve. We are giving the government a chance to take measures to mitigate the effects of this crisis and hope that it will take advantage of this chance. Of course, as an opposition, we will see how it will help the self-employed, how it will finally pump money for investment in the economy, and also how it will look for savings in chapters of individual ministries. Here, allow me to take a turn. I would intercede for it not to be in the Ministry of Defence, because otherwise we would not have stuck with Mrs Černochová, through Mr President. In conclusion, let me mention one crucial thing. We are in an extremely difficult time and such a time calls for unexpected actions from the opposition, and I must therefore say that the Mayors and independents will support a deficit of 200 billion. With this, we give the government a chance, and we ask the government not to waste it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u19	I will now ask for Mr Jan Bartošek's speech. And Mr Jan Skopeček has already spoken, you have just signed up electronically. So far, the final application to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I understand the speed at which the government is presenting an adjustment to the state budget given the situation we are in. All I ask myself is whether it will be necessary to meet again in the future and revise this state budget, whether the current calculations we have or the proposal we have are sufficient. This is the thought that I have, whether it was necessary to allow a month to pass to assess the situation well, and then to evaluate what awaits us. But I respect the need to act quickly, and for the KDU-ČSL club I can say that we will go across the road to this proposal, because in order for the government to act, it needs to have a budget from which it can meet certain requirements. It is important for the people's population that parental support, support for families are essential, because it is important that domestic consumption is maintained. People today are worried about whether they will finance the family's running, whether they will be able to pay off the mortgages and other liabilities they have, and for that reason we see it as important that we go across the street either in the form of infirmary, cursarbeit, so that people don't lose their jobs, etc. That is what I think are good steps, and we need to keep the economy running, because it turns out that cross-checking, cross-checking just doesn't lead to prosperity, and we need to support people and businesses. I would also like the government to address the issue of support for companies that have acted responsibly towards their employees and to respond to the spread of coronavirus earlier, with the decision to leave people at home to prevent this disease spreading. I hope the government will work on some kind of compensation for these companies as well. What I would appreciate for myself is if the government put forward a legislative plan, because many of the plans that we are currently dealing with in the context of the crisis will have an impact on the state budget. We could have responded to a number of laws more or less overnight because they were not introduced into the system until last night, and believe that it is very difficult to respond to this in sufficient quality in such a short time. This means that I would appreciate for myself that the government would put forward a plan for what laws it would change and what impact it would have on the state budget, and we could have prepared for that well. And I wanted to read in a detailed debate the motion for a resolution on the government's familiarisation of the Chamber of Deputies with how it will deal with the government's budgetary reserve, but given that a similar solution is already coming up with the Committee on Budgets, I will ultimately not read this resolution and I will add to the fact that the Committee on Budgets will monitor how it manages this budget reserve. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I think it would be very good if the government entered into negotiations with the Czech Banking Association. When there was a time and it was going well, banks were making money. And that's nothing to do with anything. When things are going well, it's good that they're doing well economically. But it would be good for this crisis that we have ahead of us and which I believe we will pass through successfully, so that banks bear their share of responsibility, so that they can be helpful to people who are concerned with deferring mortgage payments, reducing mortgage payments, interest rates, and everything else. Because - I know that these are separate free entities, but if what is happening in our society is happening, we must stick together and each of us must, in our own way, contribute in our work to getting out of this crisis, so I believe that banks should be the first place to go across the street and offer helpful solutions, because what is absolutely essential for the economy not to stop, so that families do not fear how they will work, what they will pay their livelihoods from, and also to believe in the future that they are turning around and are willing to spend, because without domestic consumption, the economy will simply not work for us. I firmly believe that we will go back to the budget in the future within a separate item of the House of Deputies' meeting, so that the government will present at least three scenarios, as they see that the economy will go to present us with an optimistic, realistic and bad scenario, so that we have an idea of how the state's management will end this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u21	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus has yet to report. Although it was the agreement of the MPs that only each representative would perform for the club. You don't have an MP club, but I'm gonna be democratic, I'm gonna be all alone, so I'm gonna give you, like, what's-his-name. So you'll be given an independent space today. Please, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u22	You are a model of democracy, Mr Okamura, thank you. I'll only speak briefly. As I have announced, we will support the government's proposal, that is clear, just as we will support everyone. On the other hand, I would really like to appeal to the fact that there is not the slightest cuts in the current expenditure that we will not have. I don't want to have to do this here as we've been at war, even 77 votes to keep the loss budget from being in a time of well-being, as we could really use, but really, here's how it's going to be, no one knows, but it needs to start cutting. What good is inclusion now? What are the European directives for? If we follow European guidelines, we're all dead now. So just start acting completely rational and start cutting off all the necessary things, because this crisis is definitely going to be bigger than some two percent, three percent of what's pulling the data out of the hat. So I guess that's what I'd do. And we're really thinking about these people. Those seniors, state employees, and people on welfare get the money. But now there are a lot of people who won't have money at the beginning of April. The kid was a waiter, he was fired ten days ago. When I was head of school, a third of the employees -- and they were college students -- went to ask if the ninth day was gonna be a payday. So I guess a third of people live from paycheck to paycheck. So, really, to focus on those little self-employed people, but especially -- and that was what I suggested at the beginning of today's meeting -- to start cutting off all the absolutely unnecessary things, to focus on what the state is holding, what tends to grow, not to make it exciting. Because the state can't feed these people, it has to feed itself, it has to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u23	So I am now ending the general debate. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur is interested in final words. mít're zájem, Madam Secretary. And, rapporteur, are you interested, too? You don't. So let's give the secretary some room. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová has the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's just a few notes I've made... I'm not even gonna call anyone. I am at this moment - just to see the philosophy with which I came to this novel. And I think that in modern history, for the second time, there is actually a proposal for an amendment to the State Budget Act. I didn't want to go down the road, or I didn't want our government to speak for the government to go down the road at the moment. That's why we only did it - you marked it as a correction compared to the deficit. Okay, I agree. But comparing the planned deficit and some hypothetical savings would really help no one at the moment. It was necessary to act quickly and forcefully. Find a match. In addition, remember that I have made 10% operating savings in budget 2020. We've been reducing officials. And at this point, touch-- who to touch? Defense? Army? Traffic. So I'm talking about traffic. Those chapters that have that kind of expenses these days. Or maybe the Labor Office, MPSV? These authorities, which today are extremely overloaded. Customs, which falls under me, which serves at the border and under Section 22 of the Police Act actually falls under the command of those 400 customs officers, etc. I can name another one, I'm sure I forgot about someone. So this wasn't on the agenda at the moment. And of course it sounds here, you say here: will that be enough for you? Do you know how much it's gonna be? I don't know. Even our macroeconomic prediction, and I said it in my introductory words, is based on the fact that in the second half of the decade the measures - at the latest in the second half of the year - will end, the economy will start to revive, and it will not be from zero to a hundred. It just won't be. We know it will be one step at a time. And that's what it's built on. And at this point, I think it's the only and quick way to get money to people and companies. It's just... Rather than cutting off and restricting the other operations that we're about to... or tie up. What am I gonna do to help myself? What can I do to help myself? I'm going to get three four billion at the moment when we need tens, tens of billions for people, maybe even hundreds, for people who are now in an impossible situation. That means this was a philosophy. We can afford it. We're in great shape. You can question it here, Mr. MP Skopečka. As you wish. This has also been said by the World Trade Forum - the best of our positions. And that's what we're building on. And that's why we're just going to go into this debt because the people of our country need it right now. We need it for medical supplies. The government's budget reserve, which is about 5 billion, is now spent on medical supplies. It's okay. For purchases on drapes, protective clothing, etc. Now I've been signing for Secretary Adam Vojtěch here more money from the government's budget reserve. So we need, and I'm sure it's still going to be - the Home Secretary estimates about 7 billion. that we will still invest simply in these protective equipment, and we need it. Nobody thought there'd be so much consumption, it's just... Can we - and who will blame it on? If... we were to have in state material reserves, who was counting on that amount to be needed? Or they were supposed to have hospitals in their supplies, etc. It just doesn't make sense, no blame. We have to secure it. It's for the people of our country. And we're just gonna make sure of it. So these are all things... MPSV. We have some rough estimates, which is why I've already put 10 billion in the hospital section so that the Minister doesn't have to go to the government with every amount and ask for the government's budget reserves, but of course the other items on the cursarbeit are only in some rough estimates. Now, of course, the biggest unknown that we have now, and that of course had an impact on the macroeconomic prediction, which is why we actually prepared it at the end of this... or we're counting on this situation to last until the end of this semester - the biggest unknown is time. We don't know how long it's gonna take. We're slightly optimistic - and I'm not a doctor or an epidemiologist, so I'm definitely not going to put myself on this thin ice, but we're slightly optimistic about the development that we're just still in control of. They're still tracking our sanitation stations. We're just testing more and more. The numbers, I looked at them here this morning, the Prime Minister had them here. So we're slightly optimistic about this, but of course we have to give an opinion to epidemiologists, experts. They'll tell us when we can start releasing these measures. And that, of course, is a connected vessel with the economy, which we would like to see gradually coming, but we are not able to say that term now. So time is a big unknown. And the second big unknown is, of course, the situation in the surrounding countries, because the economy is global and a whole range of our factories, different companies, etc., I will not name them, is dependent on deliveries within Europe, so it is also... Look at the situation in Italy. Look at the situation in Spain. These are countries that, of course, will solve huge economic problems. So at this point, I didn't see it as reasonable to cut and cut budgets and limit operations and tie up expenses. Maybe it'll happen. I'm not saying I didn't. Maybe I'll be here this summer with a new draft amendment to the State Budget Act, and that's where we'd have to talk about it. But at this point, we needed to be quick, operational, and raise money for people, for companies, for medical supplies. And that's what we're doing, please. Even at the cost of maybe making mistakes. That's just part of it. But who has ever been in such a situation? We just do what we can and what we think is best at the moment. There's been a lot of S.E.B.S. going on around here. We're begging you... again with regard to that time. I quickly suggested a liberating package to act on the shifts of all taxes, remission of sanctions, if people didn't make it, that was the first thing. Then yesterday we discussed the big economic package, where we focus mainly on maintaining employment, it is a cursarbeit from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The government approved the Employment Program yesterday. Of course, we will still discuss the conditions, but the Minister still has to present a detailed methodology, which is already such technical things. We have approved deferment of social payments, health payments for self-employed persons. That's just what I think was the fastest thing we could do. I signed a flat-rate decision this morning to waive all advances to natural legal persons as of 15. 6. and further extension of the waiver of all sanctions under the provisions which give me the tax rules and which, as far as I know, have been last activated for flooding, because this is really only being used exceptionally. [[18.30 hours]] So we did all this very quickly. Of course, the delay of the EET will be voted on today by this Chamber of Deputies. That was the fastest decision we had to make to react to the situation immediately, because of course, we have employees here, but we have a self-defense. Furthermore, all the instruments that are here continue to work. This means that the MPSV has a job in its strategy, it can interrupt business, apply to the employment office. It can also benefit from social support, but we de facto will continue to discuss further aid. Bert, we have now resolved what we considered to be very important, very fundamental at the moment. Yesterday we discussed the Minister of Agriculture's material in support of self-sufficiency in food policy, so that we could simply try to be self-sufficient and support agriculture, etc., even though we have not yet discussed any amounts. So it's materials from different... The Minister of Industry and Trade created the COVID programme. When he saw a huge interest, we reduced the amount from 20,000, that the maturity had been postponed since 20,000. He's probably already there today's application, as I recall, he said for about 20 billion. Those are all the things we're quick to deal with. Tomorrow I have to sign a request to the European Commission to allow us to free imports of medical material for the public sector from customs and VAT. We've basically plugged in all the tools that at the moment... And we're moving on. We continue to debate, and of course we will talk about it, everything in the context of the Minister of Health's measures, in the context of how the pandemic is developing and how the economy can be slowly opened up, even if experts actually have to say so. So at this point, I'm explaining why I haven't accepted any cuts - because I don't see this as effective at the moment except for the couple you quoted here. I mean, please don't take this the wrong way, but maybe I'm being written by citizens to see if constitutional officials cut their salaries. Just so you can see that, basically, when you're shooting at officials who I don't think are slacking off, we have a regime now that half of them have home offices, half of the Ministry of Finance is working, or maybe the ratio is smaller to take over and not fall to us, because we also have to prepare a whole series of these laws, and we can't stop the normal legislative process. I'm gonna have to start preparing the budget 2021, even though it's built on so many unknowns now that it's not gonna be easy. I would just like to say what my thoughts were when I drafted this amendment. I stand by it, and at the moment, I consider it the best. Of course, I welcome you, and I told you, she's not here anymore, Mrs Kovářová, and she's on the budget committee. I am also glad for the support from the mayors, and I said that I would also be very happy that if you are mayors or you are in charge of ammunition, then if there are regional, regional employment programmes, business support programmes that we should pull together. Of course, the government must be the main hegemon, but even the ammunition should be involved, because I think it's very important. Mr. Bartošek's comment. Of course we deal with banks and the Czech Banking Association. I was with them... It's just that I need him to have 24 hours that day. I had a video conference with them last week, where I was... [[The reaction from the diaper.]] What did I say wrong? So I can work 24 hours. I'm sorry, you're right. I was wrong. I'm just a person. So I had a video conference with them. We promised each other by the end of the week, but it will happen by the end of this week, because there are many other things we are dealing with. And I have this idea -- but I don't go to the media with it, if there's nothing agreed -- I have this idea that maybe banks should come up with some kind of bank package. With some sort of comprehensive support package. In fact, they assured me themselves, they were the bosses of all our biggest banks, they assured me that they weren't interested in paying off mortgages or paying off loans in some way. On the contrary, they want to take care of their clients. But I think it would calm the citizens of the businessman if they gave a clear signal. And that's where I want to use, not to say influence, that's not the right word, but some appeal to act. We're working on it. We're working on multiple fronts. Of course, my colleague Havlíček also, he's doing more of those things, or now we're dealing with it together, guarantees. The government has given us a task to process and complete. It's a whole package of measures, and we're moving on from the most important ones we've considered at the moment, to the others. The Czech National Bank, as Mr Skopeček said, I would like to clarify it again on the microphone. It's not on today's agenda, but I have to comment. Basically, the governor, we made a phone call yesterday, asked me to pull out of the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act - or we agreed, whether I speak accurately, it wasn't one thing to do with another, but we agreed on a partnership agreement. Let me get out of the novel, which is here before the second reading, part of the clause. Notaben, the novel has been here for five years. She didn't have time to discuss last term. It's before the second reading now. And there is this anti-crisis measure that is now before the second reading. And this is not about the Czech National Bank buying state debt. She can't, let's face it. He can't. She can buy it from the banks. And we want under this provision that - she can buy coupons with a maturity of up to one year today and we want her to have the opportunity to buy medium-term bonds, long-term bonds, because of course she will thus revive the financial market so that she can buy it not only from banks but also from others. We're expanding the portfolio. From insurance companies, and it is a system, it is an anti-crisis measure that the European Central Bank and a number of central banks are doing. What's wrong with that? It is about to work at a time when there is a crisis. And when we wrote the bill, the novel, and she's, I'm saying, she's been here five years, it's already been put there, so the clause was preparing for the crisis. But no one knew the crisis would come from day to day. No one was counting on it. That is why we want to involve all the tools that will help us overcome this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u25	I also thank you for this final word. I will remind you that we are in a legislative emergency and we have reduced the good debate. Good evening, everyone. We will continue with a detailed debate, which I hereby initiate. Five Members are registered. First Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Třešňák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I have already announced in the general debate, I am reporting to the House document under number 4635, a measure that allows the government to spend up to 25 billion. CZK to support the most vulnerable groups, especially small businessmen, people who work on various short-term conditions of the DPP type, DPČ, persons without taxable income, allows it to finance return policy for foreign workers, and for example the question of people in executions or people who are particularly at risk of execution. So I filed this motion and applied to it. And I'll take one last sentence. I'm still missing 2,000 billion of lithium in my budget for our people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u27	Thank you. I will ask Mr Třešňák next, Mr Munzar will be prepared in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u28	In the evening, Mr President, fellow Members, let me also make a proposal for an accompanying resolution on this press, which I will briefly justify here. Yesterday, the government announced changes to Pendlers, and although it is certainly a step in the right direction from the point of view of eliminating health risks, the impact on the lives of the poorest two regions is much more drastic. All the more so that spa is an integral part of the Czech Republic's economy, and especially in some regions it is perhaps the only source of income for the whole family, unless one of them is, for example, the aforementioned pendler. And so it is not only an area of economy, or health care, but it is actually a cultural heritage in a certain way. But the current measures can be completely liquidating for the entire sector. The question is whether to use the capacity of Czech spa precisely for the fight with coronavirus. In the following days it may be necessary to have sufficient bed capacity for hospitals and, thanks to the fact that spa companies are also able to operate under the health care system, they actually have their own health staff, their capacity could be used for subsequent care, and thus actually relieve other health care facilities, which will now be filled with patients with coronavirus. At the end of this crisis, for example, health insurance companies and their insurance plans can increase the possibility of drawing a cross bath for Czech patients or creating a fund for spa stays for all those who were in the first line during this epidemic and put their health and lives on the line - firefighters, paramedics, police officers, soldiers and others. They should all be able to relax from the stress they are experiencing. Such a measure will also have positive consequences for maintaining the quality of Czech spa, which is at risk of complete liquidation, allowing it to bridge the crisis period of the next few months or years, when there will be a significant failure in the attendance of the Czech spa. The resolution itself therefore reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to 1. Considering the use of the capacity of spa companies in the Czech Republic as beds of follow-up care to lighten the capacity of other health establishments; 2. prepare a fund from which it will be possible to pay for spa care for IZS components, health professionals and members of the security forces, and prepare appropriate regeneration programmes in this context." Thank you. I shall pass the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u29	Thank you. And now I beg Mr Munzar, who is also signed up in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I want to address one part of the draft state budget in a detailed debate, and this is Chapter 374, which is the Administration of State Material Reserves. When I began to read the reasoning, which is very brief, I rejoiced that the government was retreating from selling these strategic reserves. However, if you read the whole thing, the government is proposing a reduction in the planned revenue from the sale of goods by 0.6 billion. CZK, however, the other text, which actually says that sales will be the income of special non-budgetary accounts of the Administration of State Material Reserves, gives me the impression that the government did not abandon this idea, only changed the labels in the state budget. I would like to be here, and I have a resolution prepared for this, to call on the government to follow really very closely the movement of prices in the market with metals, because it is showing, and it is logical in the current global crisis, that industrial production and metal prices are dampening rapidly, rapidly falling. According to the development of the London Stock Exchange, when I show you this way, aluminum very rapidly down, copper very rapidly down in recent weeks and zinc also very rapidly down. [[shows graphs]] Therefore, I would like to call on the Government, and I will read to you this resolution, which actually says everything about it, that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to assess the current market situation, the current price of these commodities in comparison with the price of their purchase and, in the event of loss, not to carry out these sales before selling metals from the Strategic Stocks Administration. - It's very logical. I think there is no time to waste, and if the Czech State should sell its reserves with some loss, a significant loss compared to the time it bought these metals, it would not be a reasonable decision. So I'm going to ask you, Madam Secretary, to consider this very carefully, any sale of these metals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u31	Thank you and now in a detailed debate by Mr Kalousek, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u32	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Let me make my views known in a detailed debate to the two amendments that I announced in the general debate, concerning the chapter of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence and has the number 4630, and then the amendment with the number 4640 concerning the general treasury administration and the relationship between the general budget reserve and transfers to the public budgets of the central level, let us understand the payments for state policy holders. Let me respond briefly on this occasion to the Minister's speech when I had to smile sadly. She said I didn't want to cut now, but maybe in June I'll come and cut. Then it'll be too late. We all know that. If we really wanted to save money, it would make sense now. If we start talking about savings in June, there'll be a lot less time by the end of the year. That is simply an excuse which is perhaps not a dignified Chamber of Deputies. And then I wanted to respond to Mr Ferjenčík, who rightly pointed out that we should already have 2 trillion of lithium for our people today, as promised by Prime Minister Babiš, so I would like to remember to mention the 200 billion a year that the traditional parties were robbing and which the Prime Minister Babiš had already promised to save for our people in 2013. That's six years, six times two hundred is 1.2. If we add lithium to this, we should have here 3.2 trillion crowns, which President Babiš promised for Czech people, and they believed him. So, given what has been promised and how the government has actually behaved in the budget and in economic policy, it is quite very sad that now all the expenditures that are caused by the Chinese virus must be borrowed from all of them. All of them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u33	Thank you, and it is now the last time entered in the detailed debate that Mr Skopeček is. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u34	Thank you very much. As I have announced, I will draw up a motion for an accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Government to prepare and present to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to the Act on the State Budget for 2020 including savings of current expenditure of at least 5% compared to the originally approved budget for 2020, excluding chapters of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Interior of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic." I think it is necessary that, at a time when the economy is really waiting and it needs a fiscal impulse, which will mean the debt of the Czech Republic, we should also look for savings. Unfortunately, we don't have pillows that the secretary keeps talking about. Maybe she can specify what it is. One pillow, for example called. money on the privatisation account after the transformation of the National Property Fund, we dissolved in this year's budget for current spending, so there were definitely billions to help us today. Unfortunately, thanks to the irresponsible management of this government in recent years, we have no cushions or reserves, and so we should at least symbolically at 5% - I at first considered 10 percent, but I think the government is unable to save at least 5%. We wouldn't have to call on the Czech National Bank to buy government bonds after that, because we're in such a bad situation that the market probably won't make it. This is the business card of this government's sound public finances. Let's at least do something about it in this partial way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u35	Thank you, and I have yet to hear from Mr Jurečka in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u36	Thank you. Mr President, good evening. So I would like to conclude about that day, as part of the second reading, with a draft accompanying resolution on this draft amendment to the State Budget Act. It leads me to think that it would be a good idea for a government on behalf of economic ministers - because I do not know how it is now, but during the previous government there was a meeting of economic ministers that regularly met, but I think it would be good for this format, which would be extended to include the Bureau of the Budget Committee and the Economic Committee, to discuss and discuss further steps that the government will plan in the coming weeks for stabilisation and then to revive the Czech economy, to preserve jobs, to support the private sector, to tradesmen, etc. [[18.50 hours]] Therefore, I would like to propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the economic ministers of the Government to hold a joint meeting with the Presidents of the Budget and Economic Committee on further steps to support the domestic economy. I think it would be a good idea for a platform to be created here and for representatives of all the Houses of the Parties who are represented in these committees to have access to having a debate and also to give concrete incentives to the government to take some steps that they, for example, have discussed at the level of their experts, and in this way to seek maximum synergies so that we can prove the good ideas that can come out of this to be applied in practice. Thank you for any support for this resolution. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u37	Thank you. This was the last application for a detailed debate, so if no one is reporting from the point of view, I will conclude the detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. In that case, I am also ending the second reading of this proposal and, in line with my previous practice, I propose that no one opposes that we interrupt this point before the third reading. At the same time, there is an agreement between the House's leadership that we would now interrupt the meeting for 30 minutes so that the MPs could address the proposed amendments and then we could proceed to the third reading. So if no one's against it... Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u38	KSČM MP's club, please, to the club's premises right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u39	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u40	Club YES please to President Vondráček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u41	Okay, so the 30-minute break is pretty sure. In that case, we'll meet... Please, Mr. Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u42	The CSSD Club, too, please go to the club space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u43	Thank you. So I'll meet you at 7:25. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-006-006.u44	Dear colleagues, it is 19.25, so the time has passed, which I have announced for club meetings, so if no one objects, we will continue the negotiations. And now we're getting to the third reading block, so to speak. First of all, there's a point number.
