ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2000 Sb., on supported sources of energy, as amended / House print 966/ - second reading Thank you that Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček is at the newsstand. Mr Petr Dolínek, who is the rapporteur for this press, is also a Member. And to the Vice-President of the Government under the authority of the Government, who will make this proposal, I will ask for the floor to state this press at second reading. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal has been tabled without amendment for a number of weeks now, Mr President, for the second reading of the medialised law. Two amendments by Mr Lipavský did not find support for the Economic Committee. The law is proposed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and following the discussion of the principles of the law, broad support on the standing committee for the construction of new nuclear resources, where I would like to stress this, my member of all political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies. Let me point out one more important thing, such that, in view of a political debate that is understandable around this law, I would like to point out that this law does not address security issues. It only deals with the economic and financial provision of new nuclear resources of the Czech Republic, which means it does not concern any procurement documents or anything related to it. And all I'm saying is that it's not just a new block in Dukovany. So the reason for submitting the law is to resolve the market failure in the case of the construction of new nuclear resources, which the European Commission also identified, with the draft law clearly introducing an institute of the treaty, and that is probably the most important, about the purchase of electricity, so-called. an off-site contract between the State and an eligible investor. In view of the upcoming tender for a new source in Dukovany and the current notification negotiations with the European Commission regarding the compatibility of aid with the internal market rules of the European Union, the draft law is therefore more general in some aspects, leaving flexibility for future contractual arrangements between the State and a legitimate investor. The mechanism for determining the purchase price is based on the principle of the Energy Act, i.e. economically justified costs and reasonable profit, similar to those of supported renewable sources, and also includes control of overcompensation. The model of financing of the measures for the transition to low-carbon energy is based on the model of financing aid under the Renewable Sources Act, or through the regulated component of electricity price and possibly the state budget. However, we are assuming - and I am stressing this again - that, in the context of the rise in the price of power electricity, there is a greater likelihood that the financing of the buy-out contract will not have negative or significant effects on consumers or the budget. If it were the other way around, the effects would be under discernment, not to mention that it wouldn't be until 2036 and beyond. The petitioner is aware that public support will be paid on the basis of the law in the year 2036 and beyond if it is completed by then. And the timetable we're keeping at the moment gives permission to do so. Therefore, the preparation of certain implementing regulations, including the proportion of possible burden on consumers, the state budget, etc., is at risk for a later period. On the basis of the Government's resolution to finance the source, Section 4 was also incorporated in the draft law, financing the construction of low-carbon electricity production, by providing a return financial assistance, I note the returnable - under the Budgetary Rules Act, i.e. with direct State support, logically with only one objective, and this is to reduce the cost of production of electricity prices, logically also for end-customers' prices, whether they are a consumer as a family or a state. The state's integration is fully in line with international recommendations for the development of nuclear resources, among others. and OECD. It is a key law for the preparation of a new resource in Dukovany and, in view of this project, it is of the utmost importance that the law be passed in Parliament and, if possible, by the end of this year, as agreed on by the Permanent Committee on the Core, so that the process can continue without delay. So far we have followed all the parameters of the timetable, we have managed to prepare both the financial model and the investment model and the supply model this year. We promised to sign contracts between the state and ČEZ, it happened. We promised to initiate the notification procedure, it started. The last step we have is this year in the goals we had. [[10.10 hours]] So I would like to point out that I very much appreciate the support and urge you to comply with the agreement with your representatives of all the parliamentary parties, who were at the meeting of the Standing Committee 27. 5. I believe that this House will have priority in discussing the bill, and this will be discussed further by the end of the year. Thank you so much for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. Another apology has arrived. Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 10 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. I have a point here from Mr President: the rapporteur, then President Rakušan with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. So I will allow myself to speak briefly only as rapporteur. This standard was passed to the Chamber of Deputies on 11 August this year, with the organizational committee thus recommending on 3 September an economic committee as a committee of guarantee. The first reading of this commandment of the committee took place on 30 September at the 58th meeting. The guarantee committee dealt with this bill twice, set a timetable for the first time on 8 October, adopted a resolution for the second time on 20 October, where I will quote it, perhaps the most important resolution: I. the Economic Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press 966, as the Deputy Prime Minister mentioned. I will, if necessary, comment on the next one in the discussion or in the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. With priority rights, Mr. President Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, colleagues, I don't understand the rush at all. If we're talking about some kind of notification here, we're not gonna be able to make it. We are talking about strategic issues for the Czech Republic not for one term, not for the end of this government, but for years and decades in advance. And how do we approve? Fifty percent in the middle of a covid crisis at an emergency meeting. I'm really asking why we're doing this. The fact that this is a strategic matter for the Czech Republic is something that we all agree on here in this hall. The fact that the economic committee, the economic aspects of the matter, has been dealt with in detail is okay. The Economic Committee has dealt with this repeatedly, Members have had the opportunity to comment on the matter, there has been a broad debate. The Minister said a moment ago: this law does not deal with any security. Well, isn't that the mistake? Isn't that what we're supposed to be dealing with here? Because it's not just an economically strategic issue. This is a matter of high strategic even in the security policy of the Czech Republic. And if we ignore this aspect when we discuss it, if we forget it, we make a fundamental mistake. I do not know if the Minister knows this, but the point relating to this law is already included in the Security Committee after the work of my colleague Žáček. We have that point in the program. The Security Committee shall have the full right, after the decision of the majority of its members, to address this point. We've made such a good decision. Even if you think the law doesn't contain security aspects, we're simply of a different opinion. And now you will deny us the right to have the Security Committee dealt with this subject? How do you explain this to the citizens of the Czech Republic? Will you tell them the security aspect is to be ignored? You're forgetting what our secret services in the Czech Republic are pointing out, it's just unimportant, we need to have it approved quickly on Friday morning at 10 o'clock for an emergency meeting. I just refuse to do this. This cannot be how we treat a strategic matter that can affect future generations in the Czech Republic and our energy dependence on someone and on something. Therefore, Mr President, allow me to make a procedural proposal at this point. The procedural proposal will sound simple, I propose that the matter be adjourned until the matter is discussed in the Security Committee. [[The chairman is gonging.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I've called colleagues from the lobby. The proposal is procedural and it is voteable. I've just checked you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. And for those who are coming into the hall, a procedural proposal has been made here to interrupt this point, and therefore this meeting to be held in the Security Committee. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Colleagues still coming from the lobby... We will be voting on a procedural proposal to interrupt this item until this press is discussed in the Security Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 3 we are currently registered 80, for 33, against 8. This proposal has not been adopted. With a factual remark, Mr Dolínek. [[Questions from the O.R.]] We are in a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. I actually volunteered, as rapporteur, to speed things up. I would like to draw attention to several aspects. Perhaps I should have said it more widely in the opening words of the rapporteur. An extraordinary meeting was convened at the request of not the government but the Members. That's the first important aspect. I should have pointed it out, I'm sorry. Secondly, I forgot to mention that the Chamber of Deputies decided to shorten the second reading to 30 days, which means that the thirty days had passed. And the third thing I would like to point out Rakušan that the Chamber of Deputies voted on the commandment of the committee and the Security Committee failed. The committee has been held several times in the last 30 days. I respect that the law will be discussed. I just wanted to say, technically, what happened here. I should have said it in the opening report. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Vice-President Filip, then President Bartošek, then Vice-President Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. I think that, of course, most of the laws have an impact on the citizens of the Czech Republic, they have an impact on the functioning of the state administration, they have an impact on our relations within the European Union and they have an impact on security. Of course, if it weren't for the negotiation of whether the core of the energy mix was the carbon-free source that the government of the Czech Republic, France, Sweden and other states, Finland were trying to do, it would obviously be more difficult, but if we want to get to it, negotiations with the European Commission were essential, and that is why the deadlines were getting shorter. I do not see any reason why we should not continue to deal with this, because it is necessary for the government of the Czech Republic to have cards on the table when dealing with the European Commission. And as far as security is concerned, of course, we're here arguing on the coal commission, on the negotiations of those dealing with energy, on when coal will end, on how it will be replaced and whether we will replace it with a core or gas. I think that if we were to replace the decline in coal with gas, we would be a much more dependent and dangerous state than if we built a nuclear source, because, don't be mad at me, Europe is energy-efficient. Norway and supplies aren't enough for that. And the gas and oil reserves are either in Central Asia, the Russian Federation, or the Arab world. And that we would be in such friendly relations with these regions, I would seriously doubt that. So we need a source where the technology, which will certainly be at least European, is not global, because there aren't many nuclear technology manufacturers left in the world. [[10.20 hours]] Nearly two years ago, we held the first energy conference - big - where all six major suppliers were. And everyone said thank you. Whether they were French-Japanese companies, whether they were representatives of the American-Canadian Westinghouse, whether they were Chinese companies, whether they were Russian companies, they all thanked us for giving them a level playing field. Yesterday we voted on the tax package. And you really think that if we take someone out of the tender, that we can achieve something, that we can afford it? As if you want to limit the competition, tell the citizens of the Czech Republic that you will buy overpriced technology. I'm sure everyone will love us for it. And I don't want to allow us to be energy dependent on Russian or Arab gas. I'm telling you straight. And if the tender, as it is written, and I'm glad that we were at that conference with the government, at that video conference, we were discussing the question of what the consortium could be like. I think negotiations with South Korean suppliers have been very successful. As was the offer of other companies, whether it be French Areva or German Siemens. All these companies are going to the consortium with others. I'm not the one who prefers Dukovany. This is currently more about Dukovany. But for the Czech Republic, security is the best in terms of energy security, nuclear security, but even political, i.e. the international political security of Temelín, because there are deliveries from both the Russian Federation and the United States of America. And I know Temelín intimately, I live 20 kilometers away. And I remember very well as a young starting politician when I went there in the '90s, back in Federation times. And it is one of the most modern power plants where the agreement between suppliers from the Russian Federation and the United States of America has shown how viable this project is. There are only two such viable projects - Sizewell in Great Britain and Temelín. And we want to rule that out? For example, working with Rosatoma - I don't know which of the suppliers from Western Europe or from the United States and Canada? I don't want to rule it out because it's just a van that provides us with the cheapest, state-of-the-art and safest power plant. And I'm not gonna stand in front of people in České Budějovice and say, yes, I made a 100 per cent or 200 per cent more expensive by my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. There are two factual points - Mr Lipavský, then Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that it is absolutely outrageous how this House gambles with the security of the Czech Republic. What the Minister said here was that the law doesn't solve security, that's the problem. The problem is that the Security Committee didn't deal with it. And the problem is that the government has not crediblely submitted to Parliament - and now I am talking about both the House and the Senate - proof that it is addressing the geopolitical aspect. I will comment on all the things that Vice-President Filip called myself in my speech, where I am duly applied for, but I had to say this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for keeping time with the reserve. Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a big mistake that we are in a hurry and we are not going to allow it, you have not allowed the Security Committee to discuss it. This is not a matter relating to this government, not even to the next government. This is a matter that has simply long-term implications for the Czech Republic. And that's how we should approach her. And listening to President Filip here, it's not like anyone wants nuclear power and someone thinks we don't need it. The ODS is clearly convinced that we need nuclear power. We're ready for completion. There's no doubt about it at all. The core must be part of the energy mix. That's just plain obvious. But we also know that such strategic infrastructure poses certain risks, risks to the security of the Czech Republic. And those risks need to be dealt with. And we believe that it is impossible to ignore the voices of the entire security community, the secret services, the various warnings that are here, that it just isn't right. And to achieve a good result for the Czech Republic and high-quality Czech energy in the future, it is simply necessary to eliminate those risks at the beginning - at the beginning, not at the end - and to exclude those companies that are from countries or linked to countries that clearly pose a security risk to the Czech Republic. And that's what the debate is about. And don't wait for the Security Committee to discuss it until all the arguments are heard, when the House is clearly discussing the risks that are here on the Security Committee, I really consider this to be a mistake and an inexcusable act in terms of the strategic and security interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. In fact, President Jurečka - he withdrew his comment and applied with priority rights. In that case, you're number four. A real point - Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I have to respond to the things that have been said here in order to see how things are laid down. [[He speaks strongly, angry.]] I'm a member of the government committee. I've been informed about some things, and some things haven't! Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I feel deceived, and I regret to say to you too! What's the biggest problem, colleagues? The fact that CEZ wants to build solely on the security exemption of the Public Procurement Act pursuant to Section 29a. To the safety exception! But he didn't meet the legal conditions. And you know it! You know, in order to comply with these safety conditions, this is where the material approved by the government - your government - has been processed by security interests. And these security interests were not reflected in the procurement documents! And that's the basis of the problem! [[The Minister responds from the rapporteur's desk.]] I'm sorry. Because it is not possible to talk about this law without security implications. This structure has an energy, economic and security dimension. [[The Minister is responding again.]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister, this cannot be separated. And you didn't keep this!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. That's all from factual remarks. And now President Bartošek will appear, Vice-President Luzar will prepare. Priority rights within the framework of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's okay to know that the completion of the core is part of the mix, so we're in line. And that the Czech Republic should be, in terms of energy, a country that exports rather than imports energy, we are also in agreement. However, it is not possible, I am convinced that economic interest should be superior to that of the security and sovereignty of the state. I believe that the law, as it is presented, does not provide sufficient security guarantees, puts the Czech Republic in a disadvantageous position. For this reason, I have decided to put forward an amendment which is in the system under 6868. I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. And the government has the opportunity to take this security plane into account in its decision-making process, and the Chamber of Deputies has the opportunity to accept this amendment. [[10.30 hours]] I am literally quoting: "The following paragraph 6 is added in Section 3: The Ministry will not submit a proposal to conclude a purchase agreement if the conclusion of a contract could endanger life or strategic interest according to the valid Security Strategy of the Czech Republic. Before the purchase agreement is concluded, the Ministry will request the opinion of all intelligence services of the Czech Republic, which will be submitted to the relevant committees of Parliament after the Government has discussed." The Czech Republic is bound by a valid security strategy that clearly defines the state's life and strategic interests. And it is this law that should accept this security strategy. A few more points on the law. Let us be honest, the content of the law does not correspond to the title and the announced purpose of the law. Instead of dealing with the real transition to low-carbon energy throughout the Czech Republic, it is devoted only to electricity, only from the core, really only from one of the new block currently under consideration, which is an entirely unacceptable and purposeful narrowing of the law. And I think the law might be called Lex Dukovany. Furthermore, what I see as a great weakness in this law is that this law does not address the conceptual development of nuclear energy, but is clearly designed to legalize the ex post decisions already taken by the government in the process of preparing the construction of one new block at the Dukovany nuclear power plant. The second equally important objective is to have approved legislation on the basis of which State aid could be defended in Brussels before the European Commission within the aforementioned one specific block, without any ambition to address conceptually not only other projects in the core, but overall the Czech Republic's transition to low-carbon energy. I think it is scandalous that such a short law on 13 paragraphs on 8 pages should address the complex issue of building projects worth hundreds of billions to trillions of crowns. I believe that this law is completely unusable for the development of any other project, rather than just a very specific part of the currently planned one project in Dukovany. I guess we don't have to talk about the fact that he should be dealing with a whole range of other things about low-carbon energy outside the nuclear sector. I understand that the government must take active action, but I refuse to let this government sell the security of the Czech Republic. Yesterday, we witnessed a decline in public finances worth 130 billion, or this morning over the morning. And now take it figuratively -- basically two years or three years of this fall would pay for that core. And I believe that the government, as it is irresponsible for public finances, cannot treat the security of the Czech Republic, this country. I firmly believe that the Government will support my amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. We will continue the debate. With Leo Luzar's priority right, Mr. Marian Jurečka will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, have any of you read the bill? I don't think anyone's read it here. There's a quote, yes, 19 pages, 13 paragraphs. But did anyone really read it? Or is it just a game? Sometimes I get the impression that if there's a law here that talks about building a high-speed railroad eastward, someone will immediately start off that it has to be implied that they won't be driving Russian trains after it, because it's a security risk. When the government comes and says: we want a wide-track railroad towards Poland so that we can do better business with Russia and import raw materials here, e.g. coal, so someone starts: the security of the Czech Republic is threatened, it has to be written in the section that it will be discussed by the Defence Committee and the security services will comment on this! But colleagues, colleagues, they say so. We've adopted a law here to verify foreign investment. It's even been a few days since we agreed to it. And the law is clear. There is a clear position and a clear role of the security services of the Czech Republic to verify whether the investor coming here is an investor who fulfils the high level of security and transparency in the investment. Am I wrong? What did you raise your hand for when we voted on this law? Let's think about what the basic problem is. There is a group of Members, Members, who, when they see China or Russia sign somewhere, automatically oppose it. Even if it's just a tourist flight to Moscow. But there isn't half a word in this law that we should favor China or Russia. Read the bill, co-workers, colleagues. I'm gonna do a little field trip, 'cause I can see we need it. The subject matter and purpose of the adaptation in Section 1, it is two points and sets out the rights and obligations associated with the Czech Republic's transition to low-carbon energy. We have the purpose of the law here, and if you read it, maybe we'll avoid these debates here. Firstly, it is in the interests of climate protection to contribute to the decarbonisation of electricity production, and secondly to ensure the energy security of the Czech Republic through the production of electricity in low-carbon production plants in the Czech Republic and to increase the share of electricity from low-carbon production plants in gross final consumption in the Czech Republic, while taking into account the interest of customers in minimizing the impact of measures on the prices of customers' energy in the Czech Republic. - Where do you find China and Russia? Where do you see that threat to security interests? Everyone here is proudly beating in their breasts that we support nuclear power. But in order to support nuclear energy, and now it doesn't matter who's gonna build it, it doesn't matter, so we need this law to start the notification, but most importantly, to build it out of something. Because this law is about the model, the financial model of further work with nuclear energy within its customers, within the framework of energy purchase, within the framework of energy sales and functioning in this free energy market. It's not about Russia, it's not about China. Its core point in Section 3 is called the Purchase Agreement. It clearly sets out how nuclear power production will be progressed at different stages. But once again, I'm stressing with price supervision and ways to get to that price and how to work towards customers. Not half a foot about Russia and China. Paragraph 4 refers to the financing of the construction of low-carbon production. There is a model of how it will be spent on this construction so that it doesn't cost citizens so much, but to be able to support this construction and finance it not at the expense of citizens. And here we are bound by European legislation. Can the state enter a private entity? And colleagues, colleagues, let's say who sold ČEZ shares, why ČEZ is not a fully state enterprise. If he was, he wouldn't be a problem. We do not have to ask Europe and we can decide as a state. But he's a private owner, more private owners. Who's to blame? Admit who's to blame! [[10.40 hours]] This is causing these problems, and now the state is looking for a model out of this problem, but so as not to be at the expense of citizens, because the construction is tens and hundreds of billions that will cost new sources of nuclear energy. And nobody said they didn't want nuclear power. Maybe I'd understand that from my fellow pirát. They automatically reject these matters because they don't like coal, the cores are afraid, so perhaps only the solar energy they support remains. But it is a European trend. Yes, it is a European trend. In Europe, the core is shutting down, coal power plants are shutting down. But we don't care here. We need the coal energy, we need the core energy. And if we're going to shut down the coal, we need more power from the core. And if we need more power from the core, we need to find a financing model. Say well, right hand: we who perform here will not approve of this law. And if we don't approve it, we have to say to the citizens from the other side: pull out your wallets, citizens, the core, because we want it and we have to have it, it will be more expensive and you will pay more. Let's say it out loud, because that's what the problem is. And it's not true that it only concerns new blocks or a new block. He generally speaks here according to the power source's performance, as it will be progressed. And it concerns all parameters of the next procedure - the purchase, distribution and operation of electricity. I'm not going into detail here. Therefore, let us be clear that this, this law, serves only as a pretext to some who do not like that nuclear energy in the Czech Republic and its development should accompany the transparent course of the competition, the competition for the best possible conditions and the best price while maintaining all the security standards of a state that, although I personally do not like it, is a member of NATO, a member of the EU and is obliged to comply with all the safety standards that are linked to this participation in these files. But you want something extra, as if you don't believe in the European Union, that it's able to check transparency, or you want to please someone, so that those who really fall out - are really able to implement this block, that core and build it in the world. Answer that. But again, the answer is not to this law. The law speaks of something else entirely. And I'm going back to the beginning. If the bill comes here that we're going to build a high-speed railroad eastward, I expect you to get off very quickly with the fact that you do, that you support high-speed railroads, but you insist that neither Russian nor Chinese companies are allowed to participate in this, so that Russian and Chinese citizens are not allowed to go there, so that we do not bring goods from Russia and China at all, because it threatens national security. I wonder how you're going to explain this to the citizens, if this proposal doesn't pass, the notification doesn't start, and that's what this is all about, so that the notifications are in the EU with this process, and we could proceed like this, that so much required construction of nuclear energy will either be postponed; at that point we'll have to extend the lifetime of approximately 2035, 2040 existing sources of electricity, that is, in quotes of dirty, or it will be considerably more expensive. But you answer that to your constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Jurečka and before him are two factual points - Petr Třešňák and Jan Lipavský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u22	Good morning. I hope that there is no need for the demagogy from the members of the KSČM. First of all, the pirát are definitely not afraid of the nucleus, and they're sure we don't need coal in the future. And when you said, Mr Luzar, through Mr President, that we have not read the law. I have four amendments in this bill, a colleague of Lipavský two. We really read the law in detail. And so I hope that even what you were talking about, that you will then support, because just one amendment, I will be talking about it in a moment in that proper application, and it just says that it doesn't frame the law on one particular project, but it makes it much more versatile. And the other one is setting the price ceiling for the project. So please do not claim, through Mr President, that we want a higher price for such a project. On the contrary, we defend ourselves against our voters that we wanted to put the price on the table. And then when you talked about foreign investment, it was also demagogy, because this is not a foreign investment. It's a Czech investment, only technology asks around abroad. But it will be paid by the Czech citizen in the finals, either through the tariff or through taxes. So the analogy with the railroad to the east is also completely odd. And if I were to follow up - I don't know if I can make it in that factual - on what Vice-President Filip said, with the Temelín pattern, I suspect he was still saying about Sizewell, where Eastern and Western technologies are combined, there's a lot more of those blocks, whether it's Lovisa, Boushehr and a lot more blocks in Ukraine. But it's not important that there's technology from China, Russia. The important thing is who is the general contractor and who collects a large proportion of the funds that are additionally public support. So I made it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, a colleague of Čižinský with a factual remark and signed with priority right by President Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. I'd like to remind the communists and their constituents that just as the proposal is designed, people are supposed to prepare their wallets because it's going to cost them a lot of money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and we can continue, with priority right will be given by President Marian Jurečka and in proper debate Petr Třešňák. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u26	Thank you. Mr President, Minister and two other ministers, members of the government, I have to speak to this law here for several reasons, because I think at first sight that law sounds very positive in its name. The exact name is the law on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of the law etc. When you read it, you say, it's great, the Czech Republic thinks about the future in many ways, wants to protect a lot more environment, wants to use emission-free renewable resources, or low-emission, and that means that there is simply something that a common citizen might also interpret by having some sensible support for companies, especially for households in the Czech Republic, so that they can do much more installation of solar photovoltaic systems on the roofs of family houses, build heat pumps etc. I must say that we, for KDU-ČSL, have long sought to ensure that the potential of about 1.8 million households in the Czech Republic, which have roofs of their family houses, is used to make use of that potential. Take, grossly calculate the average household in the Czech Republic will pay CZK 34,000 per year for electricity. If we gave these people a chance to have photovoltaics, solar systems, a combination of heat pumps, we would leave around CZK 64 billion in these taxpayers' wallets of the Czech Republic permanently, we would strengthen our self-sufficiency and our own security. I guess that's what you'd think when you read the title of the law. But if you keep going, you'll find that this is not the case when you read the first two paragraphs, because it's actually clearly said that it won't be for everyone, no way, but you'll read that it'll only be for those who have a source of electricity over 100 megawatts, it'll be a core, a link to the Nuclear Energy Act, it'll have to meet all license conditions, etc. [[10.50 hours]] So, yes, what was said here today, if it was called the Act on replacing the power generation capacity of the core in Dukovany, it would probably be a more accurate description. And we could add to that, and also a law that is highly likely to create commitments that will cost a taxpayer in the Czech Republic quite a lot of money, because in that law there is further talk that this mechanism and this principle will guarantee the investor to whom ČEZ will be in this case, that we set up a mechanism that fully covers the investment costs of building this resource, i.e. this nuclear power plant, only there is a nice formulation of "and a reasonable profit" there. How will the reasonable profit be determined? Who will decide what a reasonable profit is? Ministry of Industry and Trade, General Meeting of CEZ? It will certainly not be the Parliament of the Czech Republic. We are in a situation where we are giving a huge blank cheque here as legislators by this decision, if we support this, that, in principle, the huge financial transactions in the order of hundreds of billions of crowns with an impact on Czech households, the Czech taxpayer, will make worse decisions in relations between the Minister and the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the management of ČEZ, in which case the government may need to comment, it will want to consecrate it at the level of the government. There is nothing here about the need for the Ministry of Industry and Trade to discuss these parameters at least with the approval of the House Budget Committee. This means that elected representatives of the Czech Republic, Parliament, will have no control over how part of the cost and part of the reasonable profit will then be financed in the wording of the law. That's the first great danger I see here. The second thing that really bothers me is the inequality of what we're creating here. On the one hand, we say we want renewables here, we want low-emission resources, we want to be responsible for the environment here, and we will give this huge form of support and guarantees to one source. That means the state said it would borrow for ČEZ, which means we will issue bonds, we will burden even more government debt, yes, it will not count to balance, I understand that, but the state will borrow it. If anything happens, de facto, at the end of the day, the taxpayer will be responsible, who always has to pay for it somehow. There are no measures in the law that say how to assess the reasonable profit, what all goes into costs, and so the state says: and to that investor, we, in addition to providing him with money for the investment, will guarantee that the investment is fully returnable, with a reasonable profit. Well, friends, who wouldn't want this in the Czech Republic? Firms, citizens, households. Damn, that's not entirely fair. I understand that we will mostly consume the electricity, maybe it will still be exported in the future, see, but I wonder why this government is not willing to approach the households that have been mentioned by the same principle. Why is the same principle not mentioned in the draft POZE Act: yes, dear households, dear citizens of the Czech Republic, we so appreciate you that we are ready to give you a certain degree of adequate support for operating support for your future photovoltaic power plants on the roofs of family houses in the Czech Republic, which will help you to be more self-sufficient and save you long-term funding. It's a sensible state policy. This is how the state should behave, say: I do not want to have citizens here on social benefits, I am looking for a parameter of permanent long-term support, I will solve the problem of the environment, emissions, climate and at the same time I give you a tool to have more money to educate your children, to improve the economic situation of families. That gives me a lot of logic. In that case, I would like to put this whole construct into one law, the Act on Supported Energy Resources, which would give me logic, because we are creating lex Dukovany. So that's the second plane, where just those who could earn the most of the support, where there could be a large production capacity combined with batteries that could work even at the municipal level, the whole system could be very interesting and stable in the future, but that's just not what they're thinking. Then here I want to mention the third issue, which I think is very important, and that is the impact on the security policy of the Czech Republic within the geopolitical environment. I think that a reasonable state, a reasonable legislator, a sensible government should always do what it does to work with those that it can call its long-term and reliable allies and avoid the risks of working with those who might be the ones who threaten that state. In this respect, I like the long-term philosophy of Israel, a state that has learned and is doing it all the time in its modern history, that is, it says clearly what we can make ourselves, so we make ourselves what we have to buy, what we can't produce ourselves, so we buy from our allies, and we don't buy anything from our potential enemies. Because why would they support those who threaten them in the future with their money? That's the same story in this case. Why do we have to expose the risk to the Czech Republic in the future just by giving someone the terms of the tender? Why should different groups of influence, communists from Russia and China, have the procurement terms of the tender available, to consult the details of these matters? Why do we even admit that at the end of this story, some people here would like to have suppliers from Russia and China? Please, take a look at the last example. Russian supply of a nuclear power plant in Belarus, it's probably a story from two or three weeks ago, Russian Rosatoma, state firm, source 1200 MW - how did it turn out? President Lukašenko arrived there, they triggered it, and it didn't even run for 24 hours. Well, I don't know if I'd be naive enough to go buy a car that ran and worked on the first day and say, "That's great, that's the kind of supplier I want to have in that van. By the way, just for the record, the price of the van - 220 billion. I don't understand why the Czech government here is counting on it to build a plant here for some 186 billion in the next few years, now that they've delivered the power plant for 220 billion at the same capacity in Belarus. Are we still that naive? Somebody explain. We expect this to be built in the future, so there must be some inflation, an increase in the cost of work, etc. It is generally known that originally calculated prices based on stories from the world are eventually somewhere in two and a half- to three times. In fact, the way in which the price is constructed gradually and the guarantee for the debt, it is already talking about the roughly 230 billion crowns. So there are more things that aren't consistent, and they're not being sufficiently pointed out. I'm sorry the government doesn't take these things into account. Here I say clearly, if we manage to change the conditions of force in the House in a year and another government will be here in a year, I say KDU-ČSL, if this law doesn't work out now, we're going to vote the supplier out of Russia and China. I refuse to risk being an unreliable supplier here. I refuse to risk getting into the sphere of influence of various types of people from these states and from these Communist parties. I think the experience is here, and mistakes need not be repeated and learned from them. And I think it gives me much more logic when we say yes on the one hand, the nuclear capacity of Dukovany production needs to be replaced, we do not question that for KDU-ČSL, just say, let us do it transparently, safely and predictablely. And let us create mechanisms to ensure that the possible costs to the State and to the taxpayer are with minimal risks, so that they can be controlled by the House, by Parliament. And not that a blank check is made for a time - we don't even know what time - for the plant to operate, so no one can actually say responsibly what it will mean for the taxpayer. So let's take these things very seriously, very seriously. I am not opening up the fact that there is more or less a process of preliminary notification, since the consultation of the draft law and with the European Commission. And I really don't want the Czech Republic to go down the path of Serbia or Hungary and get so far below the sphere of influence of Russia or China. Please, that story from Belarus over the last few weeks is a big warning of where it can go. So let's make an investment like this, but let's make it transparent, efficient and reliable with our partners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr Petr Třešňák, who is enrolled in the debate, will now be prepared by Mr Jan Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u28	Once again, good morning, now in the proper debate. I will note how this law, with obvious shortcomings, is pushing here, and I will therefore try to be as brief and factual as possible, especially with my amendments, which I will then read in a detailed debate. Once again, I have to declare it here, and I have already said it here today that I am a supporter of the construction of a new nuclear source, because the Czech Republic has excellent know-how for this and it is one of the ways to decarbonization, which is one of the main points of the law. However, I must also respond and correct Minister Havlíček, who here claimed that there is a broad political consensus over the law, in fact, Mrs Langšádlová has already commented on this. Of course, all the political parties in the House are represented on the standing committee for the construction of new nuclear resources, yes, and there is agreement on the need for such a resource, but there is no broad agreement on the investor model, on the supply model, and on the way in which the public support is provided in relation to the bill. However, the law had many interesting moments when it rolled over in eKLEP, i.e. in the interreort, and there were more comments from individual ministries and his text was changed continuously. Such an interesting moment, which appeared there several times and disappeared again, was a flatbed for a breaker, which is oddly also in the last version, but from the point of view of consumers it should be fair to pay for actual consumption, not flatbed for a breaker. That is why we tabled Amendment 6881, which abolishes this obvious nonsense and sets it straight so that network tariffs are determined in a similar way to other sources, but above all, that the Energy Regulatory Authority should have jurisdiction over them. Another amendment, under number 6874, addresses precisely this ceiling on the implementation price, both in order to protect the state budget and consumers from the possible impact of the increase in that price within the framework of the construction, so that the implementation price, which will be reflected in the tariff, is roughly on the amount that is normally mentioned in the media. There is a calculation at the current exchange rate, I suspect from about 62 euros, in the crowns we have mentioned 1620 crowns per megawatt hour. Furthermore, the procedure under which the current draft law is not practically reviewed, virtually. it would have to be the day of the Civil Code. We therefore propose a change in Amendment 6875 so that contracts resulting from the law do not take place under judicial review on the basis of a problematic part of the Fifth Civil Procedure Code, but that the Energy Regulatory Authority should decide on this matter, whose decision will then be reviewed by administrative courts. And I am glad that the Minister mentioned here at the beginning that the law is not only about building the fifth block in Dukovany, but about investing in nuclear energy in general. Therefore, I hope that there will also be support for Amendment 6872, which repeals the lower power ceiling, respectively. that limit to 100 megawatts, and this law would then be applicable e.g. even for small modular reactors. And yet a little de facto in the end to Mr Jurečka. I don't want to be a devil's advocate about setting the price. I agree with everything you've said, for example. in this deterrent example, more from Hungary than from Belarus, Belarus is such a separate chapter outside the European Union. However, if I were to compare the investment of the Astravec nuclear power plant, it was carried out on a green meadow without the necessary infrastructure, so it is logical that the price had to increase there. In this I would be optimistic, I would believe that we are actually talking about 160 to 180 billion crowns. But it has to be said that in those overnight costs is not counted really even the price of money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr Třešňák Man. Mr Jan Čižinský will now prepare Helena Langšádlová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the law we are discussing at second reading opens the way to the largest contract in the history of the Czech Republic, whose value will be in the order of hundreds of billions of crowns. No one knows the exact amount, and no one is even trying to quantify it at this point. However, his discussion here in the House has so far accompanied quite quietly. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček said at first reading: let's discuss everything on the Economic Committee. But there was no big debate on this committee. Those who were supposed to come, they probably didn't come. It was more of a discussion about how to push this bill through the House as quickly as possible. It's clearly clear on the sound recordings. After the first reading, the guarantee committee received two amendments, both from my colleague Lipavský, both rejected by the committee. In recent days, we all receive many emails from citizens who express legitimate concerns about security risks and about the impact of the law on electricity prices for each customer. Yet, last night, a single amendment from a colleague named Jan Bartošek was recorded in the system, which has changed today. So are we really dealing with a great draft that needs only one - to be approved as quickly as possible? The law-making process. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček spoke at first reading of a major turnover in the preparation of Dukovan's completion. He said that in the last 13 or 14 months the timetable, financing model, investor and supply model, concluded key contracts between ČEZ and the State, started the notification process with the European Commission and prepared this law. I do not dare to evaluate the rest of this effort concentrated until the last year and a half, but as far as the law currently under discussion is concerned, the phrase of work is not very valid. The bill was discussed in a shortened and narrowed interministerial commentary procedure. In doing so, the scope of the contract is defined, which will affect energy prices for almost every household and almost every entrepreneur in at least 30 years. In its opinion, Minister Benešová, the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, expressed a number of reservations on the proposal that were not reflected in the final text submitted to the House. The bill also raises various issues relating to state security. But I will leave this aspect to my colleagues, stick to the economic context. The content of the law. The law essentially states that the State can provide a loan for the construction of a new nuclear source and that it can conclude with the investor a contract for the purchase of electricity, which the source produces at the so-called realization price. This is the price that will guarantee the investor a return on investment in accounting for all types of costs, including a reasonable profit. If this agreed realization price at which the State will buy out the electricity generated will be higher than the market price of power electricity at the time the State sells it on the market, the result of the transaction will be loss, i.e. loss for the State. Unfortunately, this is very likely to happen. In the context of the climate commitments, European countries are increasingly moving towards renewable energy sources, and renewable energy prices are going down. In such a case, the State will collect the missing funds from end-users of electricity, i.e. from virtually each of our residents, from people connected to electricity, namely through increased network charges. The electricity purchase contract is concluded for 30 years and can be extended several times until the power plant is closed, say, 60 years. Does this mean that already the petitioners assume that the investor will not be able to repay the funds despite the regulated purchase price of electricity for the 30 years of the project life of the power plant and will it be necessary to extend the price regulation until the end of operation? Almost certainly, yes. The conditions foreseen for the loan that the Ministry of Finance can provide the investor with to cover part of the investment costs are very interesting. In particular, it is worth noting that the loan is not remunerated during the construction period. The department estimates the construction for five to ten years, but we all suspect that it's going to last. I wonder if this is really about building support or more about supporting the government of the chosen investor. The explanatory memorandum does not allow any impact of this loan on the state budget. How will the state achieve this if he has to borrow the money himself? He's gonna lend us an interest-free loan? [[11.10 hours]] The amount of the implementation price is to be determined on the basis of budgetary costs. This is likely to guarantee that only the investor will bear the risk of increasing the implementation costs above the approved budget, which is quite standard in the construction of nuclear power plants. So I guess that would be nice. However, a mechanism is subsequently defined according to which this implementation price can be adjusted every five years and more frequently by agreement of the Contracting Parties. In the event that the investor and the Ministry agree on the adjustment, it is possible to adjust the price even if it is found to be inadequate. The investor is thus once again in a remarkably luxurious situation. In the rules for setting the implementation price, the draft law uses very vague terms, such as economically justified costs or reasonable profit. This may result and will probably result in prolonged disputes between the State and the investor. The government will, by its regulation, determine the maximum permissible amount to be paid by final customers in the form of network charges. There is no limit, however, which threatens the final consumer and improves the investor's position. On the other hand, the Energy Supported Sources Act contains such a maximum possible amount. From what I have said, there is a grim conclusion. The design is such that the investor will bear virtually no risk. Any potential economic risks arising from the construction, operation and liquidation of a nuclear power plant are ultimately passed on to electricity consumers and taxpayers, i.e. to each of us. Why is that? If the construction of a new nuclear source is so risky that an investor will not go into it without taking risks by the state, or, more precisely, by us, by its citizens, it is appropriate to ask what the point is at all to go into that construction. When speaking to the committee, the rapporteur said that the bill deliberately gives a large degree of autonomy to the future government, which will decide on the contract, because it does not address in detail the extent to which it will bear the cost of the state budget and to what extent the final consumer will. Yes, that's right. But for me, it's the biggest weakness of the proposal. I really don't think the House should, by approving this proposal, resign its control role towards the government and simply squeeze it into the hand of a blank check that can hold a 12-digit amount, and let it do what it wants with it. Especially when the broad rules really make it possible to create situations that are very comfortable for an investor, but very uncomfortable for a taxpayer and consumer. And they are here in the House to defend. I am aware that there is some kind of agreement between the coalition and part of the opposition on the fact that this law is to be given the green light. But I have the impression that the government has interpreted this as a sign of resignation to the quality and seriousness of the proposal she sent to the House. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I will make a motion to reject the bill. I will also apply to an amendment which releases all the provisions of the law. I feel this and please also feel it as a gesture to draw attention to the economic disadvantage of the whole action. After the solar tunnel, we and our residents and entrepreneurs are threatened by an atomic tunnel, and this proposal leads to it by a mile. None of us should vote in favour of a proposal that opens the way to a treaty with such parameters that it would never have closed it in its private life. It's like signing a real estate broker's contract for a 30-year mortgage at least, and I don't know how much it's gonna cost me in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Mr Čižinský, now Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Jan Lipavský will be ready. Excuse me, Madam. I have here a factual remark by Jaromír Holík. I'm sorry. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u32	Hello. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of my previous speaker. I don't know where he got the paperwork. But as far as I know, every nuclear power plant, both Dukovany and Temelín, takes money out of every megawatt. The money's meant to build a new block and get the old one bailed out. So it can't be said here that the taxpayers or the state will take everything. He's just saving these companies a long time ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Now a colleague of Čižinský, also with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. I'd like to respond to the previous speaker through you. I was drawing the bill from it. If it were the way you say it was, the proposal wouldn't be here at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, a colleague of Lipavský will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Well, that's wonderful news, CEZ was supposed to save up, so he won't ask us for any money, the state won't have to borrow. But I think that the Minister will also assure you that this is not the case, that ČEZ does not have any new blocks to build. So many introductions. There's a lot of questions coming up here. I know part of those questions isn't directly to this law, and we all know that. However, I think that the situation is so serious, the suspicions are so extensive and so serious that it should be in the interest of the government itself to place a point in the construction of the nuclear bloc and comprehensively familiarize us with everything. If I don't, I mean, I would initiate it myself, but I'm addressing opposition colleagues because I don't think that if we don't figure this out, we're not gonna clear up, so the suspicions aren't gonna get distracted. And what are our suspicions? I mean, even though I know it's not just about this law, it's about our reservations. I would like to begin by saying that the TOP 09 also has nothing against nuclear power. And we know that nuclear energy, towards nuclear energy today, also countries that had no experience of this, such as Poland, Holland. And I myself believe that European states should cooperate, that at this point in time, a club of countries that allow nuclear energy should actually be established, and that they should cooperate on these new technologies. I believe that this cooperation would undoubtedly lead to better prices and safer nuclear energy. It is also appropriate for the Czech Republic and other European countries to invest in new technologies and new forms of nuclear energy, such as modular reactors. So what I'm going to talk about is not that I'm against nuclear power itself. But what seems to be the problem here? And the problems we didn't talk about on the government committee; they couldn't talk because there's a whole new situation here. Only yesterday, or rather today's night vote, the de facto deficit of the state budget increased by CZK 130 billion. This is a new situation. And in relation to that budget and budget deficit in 2000 and the planned budget deficit in 2001, we are slowly approaching one trillion. [[2020]] [[2021]] This is a completely new fiscal situation for a state that is very unfavorable. You know that the agreement between the state and ČEZ simply counts on it, and we talked about it on the government committee several times, that the de facto state of čez would be very advantageous because it would pay back after completion, borrowing and borrowing for construction in Dukovany. And in this I think, colleagues and colleagues, that the situation is new. Our debt is increasing very dynamically compared to the situation in which this model, as well as the financial model, began to be discussed. The next question is: aren't we preparing another solar tunnel? I don't want to be a part of this. I must say that there are serious suspicions that if amendments were not passed by colleagues from the Pirate Party, I am concerned that the bill prepares this possibility because it gives ČEZ the opportunity to increase the price of energy by up to 30%, and then we would all pay it back as consumers. We have, and we knew that from the beginning, we have a very unbalanced contract between ČEZ and the state, or a contractual relationship, because it is the whole set of contracts, because CEZ has its minority shareholders, and if it were otherwise, it would probably end in litigation. But once again, I would like to stress that those models that we have recommended on the government committee, so that when they are being built, so that the state can control at least fully, to build it de facto the state and not ČEZ, so I think these proposals were not odd. [[11.20 hours]] Certainly part of such a point that should be in the Chamber of Deputies should be the issue of the course of notification, how the government negotiated, how far it is with the negotiations. It is appropriate to answer all these questions, but for me, and I will repeat what I have said here in a factual remark is the most serious suspicion in security. Because - let me repeat - this project does not only have an energy dimension, it does not have an economic dimension, but it has a geostrategic and security dimension. And to repeat once again what I see in the problem, I see the problem that, from the beginning and on the government committee, it has been discussed that the competition will take place on an exception; the exception granted by Section 29a of the Public Procurement Act. And these are the cases where, for example, purchases that have some security dimension, that is, it doesn't compete like normal orders. Yes, but at the same time - at the same time the state defined and accepted, and the Vice Prime Minister no doubt knows this, in May of this year actually the definition of its security interests for this project. At the same time, there is a contract between the State and CEZ that CEZ has an obligation - an obligation - to project these security interests defined by the State into the tender documentation for the selection procedure. And there are serious suspicions that CEZ has not done so, and it is the duty of the MIT in this situation to require CEZ to project all the things that result from the security guarantees that the government has defined itself into the procurement documents. That is why the fact here is so serious that we have a duty to demand the government to convince us, and I believe that the security interests have been well defined, in which I trust the government, those who processed them, but we have a duty to ask the government to convince us that CEZ has reflected all security interests in the procurement documents so that these security interests are fulfilled in this competition. That's what I'm trying to do. And that the government, although it repeatedly demands that a large part of the opposition not address suppliers from Russia and China, does not do so, I consider it a terrible mistake, and not only a mistake from the point of view of the contracting authority, ČEZ, the government, but also from the point of view of the potential candidates. Ladies and gentlemen, processing an offer for a similar project is not a question of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions. It is estimated that applicants for a similar offer will give you half a billion, maybe even a billion. And what do you think about those applicants being expelled on the basis of, say, security interests? Aren't they gonna be pissed? Isn't there at least any litigation in the Czech Republic? I simply think that the exclusion or not addressing those risky suppliers should take place now, not then and sometimes, and make excuses for that. In short, not only to us and our security interests, but also to those suppliers. Why? Since it is difficult for such a serious or large and sensitive supply, which will de facto become part of a critical infrastructure, we can allow suppliers to be from countries that are de facto hostile to countries such as the North Atlantic Alliance, or even countries where people are actually on penalty lists. After all, we have a clearly anchored geostrategic position, and we have a duty to follow it, and even in such an extensive contract, to proceed so that our security interests are not damaged. We mustn't put our heads in a knot of dependence on countries that are hostile to us. We can't just stick our heads in Russia and China. In short, this investment does not only have the energy, economic, but also has a geostrategic and security dimension. And Mr. Vice Prime Minister, if we care about our future, I beg you very much, so I ask you very much to consider excluding these risk suppliers before the selection procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u37	That was Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Mr Jan Lipavský now. Petr Dolínek will be ready. My colleague Lipavský is coming. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. So today we meet at an emergency meeting for the second reading of the Government Bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy. The fact that the name is slightly misleading has already been said. It's actually lex Dukovany, because I don't know that anyone else would want to build a nuclear power plant here with a power output above 100 megawatts in the foreseeable future, other than CEZ in Dukovany. However, in order to build smaller nuclear power plants, Petr Třešňák will propose in his amendment or has already proposed it, and I would like to call on everyone to think about it and consider supporting this proposal, because I believe it is a proposal that moves the law forward for the better. But what I intend to talk about now is that I believe that this meeting should be interrupted, the issue should be addressed by the Security Committee and I will explain why. The arguments have already been made here, but I believe it is necessary for them to be heard again. In the second part of my speech, I would like to introduce to you my two amendments, which I have already had the opportunity to present to the Economic Committee. At that time, the Ministry of Industry and Trade took a position on them. Me and my team have been working on a statement on a statement in the explanatory memorandum. So we're responding to that, too. I'm a little sorry the government's trying to put its head in the sand before the security question. She chose an ostrich algorithm. The ostrich algorithm is that I stick my head in the sand and I can't see anything, so there's no problem. That is why we are having this debate, and then we have no space and energy left to debate things that are attached to it, and Petr Třešňák, for example, is talking about them and are quite crucial. We should talk about the need to update the state energy concept, or it is planned, and we should talk about how it will be updated, what the role of the core will be, what the role of other low-carbon sources will be there. When I spoke at the beginning of my speech that the proposal is misleading, it is misleading precisely because it ignores or does not talk about other low-emission sources that also exist. [[11.30 hours]] The debate on the investor model was resolved by the decision of the government and the signing of the contract with ČEZ. However, it may still end with ČEZ selling the entire project to the state, so eventually it will be a state project and the state will consider whether it will continue to pour money into it or whether it will end the project. There's still a risk like that. That is why we are very consistently appealing to choose a reliable and long-term partner, whom we can trust, with whom we know that we will be able to complete the project without any problems. And I have a lot of good reasons for not being a company from Russia and China. At first reading of this bill, I did not perform much, I respected that it was included sometime on Tuesday afternoon, it was still interrupted, we briefly dragged over seven hours, and I suggested that we hold a detailed debate in the Foreign and Security Committee, myself a member of the Foreign Committee. These proposals did not go through, twice I suggested that we deal with the substance in the foreign committee, rather in detail I explained why this substance is relevant to these committees. I rely on existing government documents, Security Strategy, Concept of Czech Foreign Policy, State Energy Concept. All these materials describe very well and well, I dare say, the interests of the Czech Republic in the question. And if the government is moving forward with interests, then there's no problem with her proving it to us, and we don't have to have this debate. However, in a situation where the statements made by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, when the statements made by Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček talk about talking to everyone, it leads me to conclude that the security interests of the Czech Republic are at risk by this act. I would like to say very briefly here... Sorry, back to the security committee. I would like to thank my colleague Pavel Žáček, who has succeeded in including this on the agenda and is therefore absolutely necessary, it is absolutely necessary that the Security Committee should deal with this and that, until then, the second reading, or the third reading, does not take place. The proposal has been made here before. Unfortunately, the House has decided in a way that does not go completely in the interests of the security of the Czech Republic. But that's what every MP has to answer in front of their constituents. I would like to recall the resolution of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security, namely on this substance, two, one of 9 June and the other of 18 November, two days ago, where it is clearly stated that it is undesirable for companies to participate in the strategic construction of the power plant to participate in the participation of NATO countries as hostile or their representatives on the European Union's list of sanctions. What a guinea pig. Such a seed bead is that one of the members of Rosatom's Supervisory Board is now on the sanction of the European Union, because he is attributed a share of the murder, an annoying substance to the attempted murder, a chemical combat agent. [[List]] With this kind of company, we should be throwing ourselves away, and we should have a problem, we're having a debate at all, which seems completely insane to me. That seems completely insane to me. Yesterday, an article came out on the server and voice, where the material signed by the Deputy Prime Minister of this government was quoted by Jan Hamáček, Minister of the Interior, but the material summarizes the expression of the entire security community that the Czech state has. It's not one Koudelka, the BIS, as it's often framed in the media. They're all security forces in this republic. All of them. There's six of them together. And they're clearly a match, and they're quite hard and clear in naming these things. This is another argument that leads me to deal with this by the Security Committee. I'm gonna repeat this over and over again. Well, if we have a government that, for some reason, is quite clear in my opinion, and that is the assignment from Prague Castle by President Zeman through his liaison to Moscow The undead and so on, which is simply pushing the Russian core, so it has led me to the only possible solution that I have as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and that is at least trying to try to stop the government from taking part in this tender by Russian and Chinese companies. So I come to the second part of my speech, and that is House document 6878 and House document 6879. These two documents contain two amendments tabled by me and Mr Pavel Žáček from the ODS, and I can now briefly imagine these amendments. The first amendment states that it complements the paragraph which says that the Ministry will not submit, on a proposal to conclude a purchase agreement, if the conclusion of a contract could endanger the security, sovereignty or other vital interest of the State, lives, health, significant property values, energy security of the State, and long-term stability of energy supplies, or significantly threaten another significant public interest. In order to assess this question, the Ministry may request comments from other public authorities. Of course, I have no doubt that the members of this Chamber know the constitutional laws of the Czech Republic in detail, and they have certainly learned the citation from the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. And I have no doubt that this law will support this amendment. I do not intend to burden the Chamber of Deputies with the whole explanatory report, but this wording clearly obliges the Ministry of Industry and Trade to respect the relevant security documents to work in favour of the security of the Czech Republic. If that were the case today, its High Representative, Minister of Industry and Trade, Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, cannot speak as he says. That is why I am proposing this amendment. The second amendment, which is an adjustment to the definition of the low-carbon production plant, is: a low-carbon electricity production plant on the territory of the Czech Republic with a nuclear reactor with installed capacity of 100 megawatts connected after 2030 to the electricity system, the construction of which only uses technologies from suppliers who are nationals of the State that has acceded to the Government Procurement Agreement and whose controlling persons are nationals of such a country. I would recommend to all of you that you look very closely at the explanatory report on this amendment, I will not read it whole here, it has several pages, I do not want to delay it. Because the construction will cost at least 160 billion crowns. There are opinions that it will be more, let's work with the number we have, at least 160 billion crowns, that's the overnight cost for the construction without counting interest, etc. So we take 160 billion crowns and give them to some supplier through CEZ to build us a nuclear power plant here. That's logical. It's okay. But why should we give them to a Russian or Chinese company if our companies don't cross out a contract like this in Russia or China? Because Russia and China have never joined, and probably never will, given how strict their own markets' protectionist policy is, to the Agreement on Government Procurement, which is part of the World Trade Organisation. [[11.40 hours]] When you have to buy paper for a printer, you write a public contract as a state. The Czech company can apply in Japan, South Korea, France, USA, Canada to the tender for the supply of such material to the public contract. You don't stand a chance in Russia and China. And why I said it was appropriate to look at the reason message, so the reason message comes from the BusinessInfo server, which is a service provided by the Ministry of Industry and Trade through one of its organizations that provides business service in the world. And there is an evaluation of how a Czech company can apply for government contracts. So actually the MPO itself through these materials admits that in Russia and China it is an environment so hostile to companies that are trying to apply for public contracts there that it doesn't actually make sense. Of course, these problems are not in other countries, because France, when it is a member of the European Union, is a common market and where a multilateral agreement has been reached, the obstacles are also more or less minimal. And it's just fair if we want to give 160 billion for that construction and it's clear that we need to get it from a foreign source, so that we can get it from companies from states that are somehow more close to us. Thank you very much for your attention, I do not want to delay the Chamber of Deputies. We have an anti-corruption package, which is undoubtedly very important laws. I believe that we will find a way to a political agreement to discuss this issue in at least one of the committees that can comment on the geopolitical security issue. If it is no longer a foreign committee, which I am personally sorry, however, I will continue to suggest it there, but I do not want to burden the House, so let the Security Committee discuss it. And then we can all take a picture of how the government fills or does not fill the state's strategic documents and how it works or does not work for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u39	That was Mr. Jan Lipavský. My colleague Dolínek will wait. I have two factual points here, Ondřej Benešík and Radek Koten. Now Ondřej Benešík with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just have three comments on the discussion that took place here. And that is to say that energy companies have been saved and that this is not the case with a citizen. I mean, they're gonna save those power companies from what the citizen pays them, so it's gonna have to be reflected in the price for the citizen. And on that note that there are some who would ban trade with China and Russia, I am now paraphrasing freely. It wasn't exactly accurate. For KDU-ČSL I say that we want fair terms on the contrary. And we, on Wednesday on the Committee on European Affairs, have called on the European Commission to prepare measures to limit imports of goods where social and environmental dumping exists. It's just that if you make that product by making it a 10-year-old kid who's supposed to be in school, minimum social standards, minimum occupational safety standards, with a minimum wage just to survive, then, of course, such goods are considerably cheaper. And I don't think it is, if the factory is still dumping its waste without cleaning it into the water, which, of course, means all costs, then it's cheaper, and we want to set this environment internationally straight. And China is definitely one of the producers of such goods. But objectively, I say not only China. And as far as our business with Russia is concerned, it is rather marginal, but investments in Russia are loaned by the Czech Export Bank and the insurance company is EGAP, so it can be said that the botched transactions with Russia are paid by the taxpayer. And a Vladimir Putin once wrote his thesis on Energy and Russia's interests, saying that energy has -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u41	Mr. Colleague, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. I'll finish this next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Radek Koten, with a point of fact, is prepared by Mr Dolínek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to respond to a colleague of Lipavský, who said here that the Russian Federation does not take anything from us as much as we cannot export anything there. He is right, of course, but this measure was created only on the basis of the European Union's sanctions in 2014 and then the Russian Party responded to it by some countermeasures that prohibit imports of machinery products, food, etc. So it is not that Russia and priori did not want to trade with the Czech Republic, but since the European Union's sanctions against the Russian Federation, it has simply been. I'm sure you're right about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Helena Langšádlová and one more from my colleague Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond to my previous speaker because here he repeated a lie that is often repeated. Yes, after the annexation of Crimea, the country of the European Union imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation, but it was on the import of weapons and their components and on those products that have some security dimension. On the other hand, the Russian Federation imposed sanctions, but on a very wide range, including food. aby me být this straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Now, then, my colleague Benešík, one more point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u48	I'm gonna repeat myself in part. That's right! There is still a myth that the European Union has banned its producers from exporting apples to Russia. That's just not true! This is an embargo on the part of the Russian Federation in response to the fact that the European Union has imposed an embargo on arms exports, possibly. dual designation components, that means that products can be used for civilian purposes, but also for warfare. That's just the whole truth. So let's just remember that. As far as the Russian Federation is concerned, I would also like the trade to be bigger, but today is marginal. It's less than two percent today. But, of course, the balance on the Russian side is considerably higher, because the Russian Federation is bringing raw materials, oil, natural gas to us, and it lives on it, of course, because almost half of the state budget of the Russian Federation is just made up of resources that are generated from the sale of mineral resources. And that the Russian Federation could use this very energy dependence of other states for political purposes, so it showed in 2009, when its dispute about supplies, about payments with Ukraine had an impact on the Czech Republic as well and we had to find it hard to deal with. And I think it's in our interest to diversify. So we don't depend on one country. And as far as Russia's energy policy is concerned, Vladimir Putin, once a student, wrote his thesis on Energy and Russia's interests. And now I'm going to quote: in it, it considers energy to be absolutely crucial to Russia. Even to the point that it needs to serve "only Russian political interests." Let's keep that in mind, too! The man is the President of the Russian Federation today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Lipavský, then perhaps finally by colleague Dolínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the subject of Russian sanctions has been raised here, because it would be good to remember what caused the sanctions. The reason was that Russia stole Ukraine from Crimea and triggered a war in which there were over 10,000 dead. And because they shot down a plane on which 298 innocent civilians were killed. And they're still so rude, they deny it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Petr Dolínek, Mr Pavel Žáček will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. I want my colleagues. To meet the pirates, that's why I'm going to cut back on the performance I had. The fact that social democracy in the state energy concept of the Czech Republic supports the construction of nuclear resources is clear. After all, our Prime Minister Sobotka has updated all the concepts and has prepared all the steps to ensure that the current Vice Prime Minister and this government can continue this work, indeed across a number of years. It's not something that's been going on here for the last 12 months. I wanted to talk about the need for resources here, I wanted to talk about the fact that if we replace coal, and the coal commission will probably tell us, I expect the first more specific form of the plan in weeks, but we must also have a plan B, which means how we will replace it. And that is why we are discussing this today, so that the Vice Prime Minister and the Czech Government can come responsibly before the MPs, before the Senate and the people and explain how we will replace and how the plan will really work. I'll pass. However, I would like to say that we are sorry for social democracy that we are really mixing two things together here. The technical standard that allows the construction of such resources, and there I agree with colleague Třešňák, let us discuss whether it is only large or modular. I would like us to extend the discussion to those modular sources, because the universality of the law is more valuable than the specificity in some cases. But universality also means that we cannot order the government - we can, but I often do not recommend it, simply constitutional order is such that the government has confidence from the House and lays down its accounts to the House, but it has to decide. And I think that, as far as the tender is concerned, the government is fully responsible. However, I think that, by what you have mentioned here, that means the working committee with the participation of the security forces of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, their outputs, shows that ministers for social democracy are aware of potential risks. It shows that risks are evaluated, not pushed away. On the contrary, I regret that there is a bit of a push to the ministers and the government as a whole, that they are trying to find a way to assign a pre-selected contract to someone. No, on the contrary, I think that these steps show that the government is really considering how to make the tender safe enough not to affect the Czech Republic in the future and not commit future governments to something that is totally unacceptable. I would like to refute the myth that the Committee on Economic Affairs did not discuss this, because the Committee on Economic Affairs has often discussed this. This was also the case at the meetings which took place with the participation of the Prime Minister or representatives of ČEZ. It was open and closed negotiations, depending on the importance of the information that was given. Here it is appropriate to thank the Chairman of the Economic Committee and the Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Energy for including these points very intensively in our negotiations. So for social democracy, we support this law. I will comment on the amendments when they are read in the next few days. Our ministers are Petříček aware of the Hamáček and the need to protect the sovereignty of the Czech Republic and will do so in the coming weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u53	I thank Mr Petr Dolínek. Now, Mr Pavel Žáček in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what was said here at the beginning from the KSČM's mouth that there is a small group of Members who are harming this project, that they see red when the names of the state of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China are heard. I don't think so. Now, I'd like to follow up on my previous speaker and argue a little bit about what he said here. I think that the documents I will quote, and these are government documents, imply that the government, perhaps some ministers, will then answer for yourself, try to circumvent the views of our security community, and I consider this to be a very serious matter, and that is why I also see the comments of colleagues who stress the security aspect. In contrast to my colleagues, I will read the whole document. There's two of them. The first is the accompanying letter from the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček of 14 September 2020, No. MV-144448-1/OBPL-2020. I quote, "Dear Minister, I have received-" and I think that the importance will arise from the content, that they are somehow circumventing the positions of the security community -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u55	Ambassador, I'm going to have to interrupt you not because you can't say your word, on the contrary. At the latest in five minutes twelve, I must interrupt not only this point, but also this meeting, because another meeting is called for at 12 o'clock. Technical conditions force me to do it five minutes before 12 o'clock, because I can't change the invitation to the next meeting. I therefore note that you will be the first to be entered in the debate once we have reopened this meeting and this item. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, but I have to do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u56	I understand that. The documents are so serious that I think we can read them twice or three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u57	Okay. I note that the chairman of the Radim Fiala Economic Committee will speak before the meeting after Mr Pavel Žáček is adjourned, so that we have the order of registration recorded. Then please log in when we re-class. That's it, I'm interrupting press 966, second reading. Thank you to Minister Havlíček, thank you to Petr Dolínek as rapporteur. I interrupt the 67th meeting with the fact that at 12 o'clock we are starting another meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as convened pursuant to Section 54 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, as I have already announced, and we are now returning to the 67th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which has been interrupted, under the agreement of all the Members' Clubs. In order to record our participation, I have to unsubscribe again. Please log in with your ID cards again. No one's asking to issue a replacement card. From this point of view, everything's fine. The meeting was adjourned when Mr Pavel Žáček, who now has the opportunity to continue his speech, spoke. It is followed by President Radim Fiala. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u59	Thanks again for the word. I'm just going to repeat briefly, give you the reasons why I'm introducing you to some of the documents. I believe that there was a risk of circumvention and ignoring the views of the entire security community of the Czech Republic. I'm going to quote you from some of the documents that have already appeared in the media yesterday, but in order to be taken seriously, and that some colleagues who believe more in our moaning, I would have read it so that we would have it completely relevant as a basis here. And to hear the voice of our security community. It would also be a reaction to a colleague who presented and indicated a contradiction between ministers of the Czech Government. I think that the government of Andrej Babiš cannot ignore the very voice of the security community, all the more so because it is not the voice of one security authority, one intelligence agency. I'm going to re-read that accompanying letter to show you at what level, and I'm quoting it from government materials. It is a letter from Jan Hamáček, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior of 14 September this year, the number of the MV-144448-1/OBP-2020. And I quote: "Dear Minister, I have received your request for comments on the tender documentation for the selection of the candidate for the construction of the new Dukovany II nuclear power plant. The submitted tender documents in English contain several thousand pages. The deadline given by the Ministry of Interior for processing the key position from the point of view of security issues was set on 24 August 2020. Security institutions welcomed the extension by the following two weeks. The general conclusion of the attached opinion of the working group below agrees that it is absolutely essential that the security interests of the State be incorporated into the procurement documents as required by the contract between ČEZ, a. s., EDU II, a. s. and the State and relevant documents approved by the Government. In the submitted version of the procurement documents, these interests are not sufficiently incorporated. Their consistent incorporation is important not only from the point of view of state security, but also in order to fulfil the legal reason for using the security exemption from the Public Procurement Act pursuant to Section 29a, thus ensuring the possibility of proceeding under this exception, which is a key interest of both the State and the investor. At the same time, I recommend that the documentation be assessed by legal specialists with experience in complicated projects, thus excluding the possibility that the tender documentation will be disadvantageous and risky for the state. I therefore ask you to include your comments in the procurement documents, with the fact that their next evaluation will take place in the next step, as announced by the staff of your department. Greetings, Jan Hamáček." To whom was this letter addressed? Here to the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. Now, to perhaps say one more reason why it is necessary to get to know it today: because after Sunday, the Security Council of the State will sit down to deal with this. Let us believe, hopefully, that just as our Security Committee will handle these things. So I quote: "The campus of the working group consisting of the Ministry of the Interior, the Security Information Services, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Office for Cyber and Information Security." All necessary security authorities. "A summary of fundamental comments. 1. The Working Group at the Ministry of the Interior assessed only safety issues in the tender documents, which refer to the following comments. It did not assess legal, economic and other aspects. These are therefore only safety comments. 2. In order to prepare comments in the tender documents, the State has been given extremely little time, so it cannot be fully guaranteed for the completeness of this opinion from the point of view of protecting all the security interests of the State. 3. The procurement documentation reflects the government's approved security interests insufficiently, the interests which EDU II undertook to incorporate into the procurement documents in the first implementation contract. The undertaking was therefore not sufficiently fulfilled. We therefore require the following essential comments to be incorporated into the procurement documents, in particular the inclusion of safety criteria. 4. In accordance with the documents approved by the Government, the Working Group considers that the best and only safe procedure to ensure the security interests of the State is not a risk in the tender of candidates identified in government documents. This procedure is recommended by the Working Group. If even risky candidates are contacted, the room for manoeuvre to reject them will be significantly smaller than currently. If a risk candidate were chosen as a winner, the risk of fulfilling the threats identified in the government-approved documents would increase significantly. 5. The participation of these entities in the tender itself may cause the threats identified in the documents defining those threats to be met. This would threaten, among other things, situations where the Czech Republic can easily be blackmailable at strategic level by a risk subject or by its State of origin. [[13.00 hours]] For starters. First of all, it should be noted that the working group is fully aware of the seriousness of the selection of the supplier of the new nuclear power plant block as it will be a strategic partner in the field of energy security. The nuclear source needs to be based, and the working group is based on the fact that the Czech Republic has chosen a partner for about 80 years with this project, and therefore it is necessary to be very careful when choosing the candidate and take into account a number of aspects. Among other things, from the point of view on which trading companies and the state may be dependent on the Czech Republic over the next decades in the field of electricity supply and on whom it must not be dependent for various reasons. It should also be noted that there was extremely little time for the assessment of the entire dossier from a security point of view. Several weeks to assess thousands of pages of documentation in the English language of the project, which is of the greatest strategic importance, is quite insufficient. It should also be noted that, according to the numbering of the document file name and the numbering of the table describing the methods of implementation of defined security interests, it is possible that it has not been transmitted to security entities for the assessment of the complete dossier. Therefore, the MIT was subsequently requested by a letter from the Minister of Interior to supply the rest of the documentation. In this case it was subsequently explained by a member of the Ministry of Industry and Trade that, for unknown reasons, the documentation files submitted by ČEZ, a. s., the Ministry of Industry and Trade were numbered not from number 1, but from number 4, and was omitted when numbering the file number 12. This was subsequently documented by the sending of the transfer protocol, where the documents submitted and those documents are in the protocol. File numbering is strange, however, the working group has no choice but to rely on confidence in the correctness of ČEZ's actions, a. s. as there is no way to verify this circumstance. Therefore, this opinion is also given subject to the fact that it cannot be verified whether the tender documents submitted are really complete. For the above-mentioned time-limits, any such statement on safety issues relating to documentation shall also be submitted subject to the fact that, within a specified extremely short time and extremely large volume of material, the whole text could not be passed properly in order to guarantee with certainty that the text of the procurement documents is without problems from a security point of view. It should be counted that there may be hidden safety-threatening problems in the document that could not be identified in such a short time. In general, the procurement documents and the opinion. In accordance with the text of Article 4.4 to 4.6 of the Tripartite First Implementation Contract on Cooperation in the Construction of a New Nuclear Source in Dukovany, Czech Republic between the companies Elektrárna Dukovany II, a. s., ČEZ, a. s., and the Czech Republic were submitted to the Ministry of the Interior for the assessment of tender documentation for the selection of the candidate for the construction of this nuclear power plant. [[hereinafter referred to as PPS]] According to Article 4.6, the Ministry of Interior has letters. (g) PPS to organise and establish a common opinion of the intelligence services and other stakeholders concerned on security issues in the procurement documents. [[in this case, the SAO and the SAO]] This opinion, presented here, is therefore a common opinion of all those security entities. The Government approved the definition of the security interests that must be protected in the construction of new nuclear resources in the report of the Working Party on the security aspects of the new nuclear resources of the Standing Committee on the Construction of New Nuclear Resources, where the number is reserved, "and subsequently, a year later, it approved their detailed development in the form of material a number which is classified, including confidential, reserved and classified parts of the material, and ordered both documents to follow and fulfil these security interests. The approved document under number D 56/2020 was subsequently transmitted by the State to ČEZ, a.s., and EDU II, a.s. In Article 4.6, point (b) is replaced by the following: (a) PPS has undertaken to comply with these safety requirements and to comply with Article 4.6 (a) of the PPS with the EDU II, a. s. (c) PPS for the task of such defined security interests to incorporate into tender specifications. The above-mentioned dossier is considered. At the same time with ČEZ, a. s., and EDU II, a.s., according to Article 4.6 of the letter. (d) the PPS has undertaken to demonstrate that they have fully covered all the security risks and threats that have been passed on to them by the State. The intelligence services assessed the will and ability to undermine the state's basic security interests in the construction of new nuclear resources in the aforementioned documents. However, what these services are not capable of is the degree of dependence that would arise if the risk bidder was to be a supplier even in a consortium of new nuclear resources. Consultations with the MIT and the team of the government agent showed that both the position of the main supplier and the status of a member of a potential consortium gave any dangerous supplier the opportunity to delay and block construction and to demand compliance with the requirements that the Czech Republic would otherwise not be willing to meet. In other words, there is an addiction to suppliers that gives him the opportunity to blackmail the Czech Republic at a strategic level. Key comments on the specific integration of security interests in the procurement documents. It cannot be said that the procurement documents would not incorporate defined security interests at all. The documentation contains, as an instrument for protecting security interests, the possibility of excluding dangerous suppliers by a government decision and a number of options for excluding dangerous subcontractors. However, in the direction of the supplier, the tender documentation gives this possibility to the government only after the whole, at least about two years old, tender, for security reasons. As far as subcontractors are concerned, the documentation sets out a number of possibilities for the State to intervene in the designation of subcontractors, in this respect, in contrast to the applicant himself, the possibilities of the State are paradoxically wider. In general, the entire tender of the tender documents provides for the possibility of the State obtaining information, documents from the tender process, etc. In addition, theoretically, there is still the possibility to withdraw from the contract already concluded with the selected supplier for security reasons. But that would stop the whole project. The termination of the contract with the supplier is thus the only tool in the tender documentation that allows for the risk to the security interests of the Czech Republic, which would occur only after the selection of the candidate and the conclusion of the contract with him. The question, however, is the reality of such a procedure. It is possible to complete the construction without an EPC supplier according to the material.However, the documentation mentions the need to provide all the necessary assistance of the supplier for the completion of the power plant, but in practice, especially when it comes to termination for geopolitical reasons, this assistance cannot be reasonably expected. Both of the two options mentioned are reactive and extreme, and therefore both suffer a similar weakness: First, their use would mean a significant loss of financial, loss of time and confidence in the state's ability to secure this important project, and, secondly, their use would probably mean the opening of a number of litigations or arbitrations. They are therefore relatively inefficient instruments, because the government's ability to use them will be greatly reduced in the light of their consequences. Compared to the PPS, which mentions a mechanism that would allow the investor to pass on the security requirements for subsequent incorporation into partial contracts, the tender documents submitted do not have this mechanism adjusted. Therefore, it needs to be worked out. The above shows also the need to use preventive tools, see below. It can be summed up that it is paradoxical that documentation gives a number of options not to approve dangerous subcontractors, but it gives practically only one tool to treat the problem of a dangerous candidate, that is the main supplier. In doing so, security forces identified and government-approved endangered interests, see already cited in document D 56/2020, primarily addressed the level of hazard of the tenderers themselves, not primarily to subcontractors. In this respect, the procurement documents shall take into account the key security interests set by the Government insufficiently. The Ministry of the Interior subsequently received an overview table in the tender documentation, which describes how, in the opinion of the investor, they were incorporated into the documentation of the identified security threat. It should be noted that out of about 17 identified threats according to the material already mentioned in the classification D level, only about 5 of these threats are actually addressed in some way in the table. This shows that the security interests that the investor should have incorporated and protected in the documentation are not sufficiently incorporated. It should also be noted that many of the measures listed in this table are quite standard, of course security measures - such as compliance with obligations under the law and other cyber security regulations - which would have to comply with virtually any project or critical information infrastructure, even if a special study on threats related to the construction of a new nuclear source had not been prepared. A number of measures also have the character that they do not address the nature of the security problem, only lightly alleviates it. [[13.10 hours]] It is surprising that the document does not incorporate or use a demonstrative list of possible criteria set out in the V147/2019 report on pages 21 and 22. The use of these criteria in the procurement documents would take into account the threat to the security interests defined in this document. It is therefore recommended that the investor incorporate these demonstrational criteria from pages 21 and 22 of that report into the tender specifications so as to avoid risks. In order to properly fulfil the obligation to incorporate defined security interests into the procurement documents, the criteria to be considered by the Government when deciding on the possible exclusion of the tenderer should be taken into account in Article 1.5 of the Instructions to Bidders Document. We propose that the criteria be incorporated into the part where it is declared that the government can abolish the tender. This inclusion is in the interests of transparency vis-à-vis the tenderer and, at the same time, it is in the interest of compliance with the obligation to include government-approved security interests in the procurement documents. The demonstrative list should best be based on the government approved document No V147/2019, which contains these criteria on page 21, 22. Therefore, we propose to add a demonstrative list directly to the text. At the same time, it is necessary to specify the diction of the provision so that it is quite clear that the State can intervene in the process for security reasons at any stage of the preparation of the tender, the tender itself and after it. The question is whether it is sufficient to justify the use of the exemption from the Public Procurement Act under Section 29 (b). (a), that is to say, serious security reasons, only that the State is allowed to refuse back the candidate who wins the tender. The Working Group is concerned that the mere establishment of this possibility to refuse back the applicant by the government is not enough for the assessment bodies to use this exception - the European Commission, the ÚOHS, the courts. And in this possible negative opinion, the whole project could then go bankrupt. So this is one of the key issues on which the entire philosophy of the project is based. This is because it will not be implemented under the Public Procurement Act. It should be noted that, for example, the interpretation of Paragraph 29 (b). (a) the Gestapo of that law, MMR, has radically changed on this issue during the preparation of the project in the last two years. Originally used § 29 letters. (a) the MMR did not consider it possible, subsequently amended the opinion and considered it possible. Therefore, the key basic security interests in the process, including the procurement documents, need to be actually and conclusively treated, as this also has a serious legal reason. It cannot be accepted that, on a mere legal issue, the entire project procedure may fail in one of the key proceedings - court proceedings, before the European Commission and others. However, if the three criteria set out below set out the safety parameters of the person who can apply to the tender, this would be a clear fulfilment of the provisions of the first implementing contract in accordance with point 4.6, while at the same time eliminating serious threatening problems in denying the applicability of the security exemption under the Public Procurement Act under Section 29 of the letter. a). In this way, when determining certain parameters, this debate and questioning the legitimate use of § 29 letter. (a) There was no longer any threat of an ADA. It is also clear that the ongoing time and progress of the entire project will increase the difficulties and problems associated with possible efforts, security problems, especially those already in existence at the beginning of the process, to resolve without significant costs or losses of financial, political, time-time. The later such decisions are taken, the smaller the options will be to deal with them. The maneuvering space for the government will be narrowed down with the project process. One of the problems is that in the Document License and Permitting /1.2A and AA, page 6/ it should be noted that the set conditions seem to exclude some potential candidates in principle. This is related to the requirement for the existence of a already built reference power plant with the required power. In particular, the conditions exclude Atmea, which does not have a reference nuclear power plant, and the Korean KHMP, whose reference power plant does not have power up to 1,200 megawatts, which requires procurement documents but 1,400 megawatts. This is similar to EDF, which wants to offer a reactor with a capacity of 1,000 megawatts, but it hasn't built yet, only has a reference reactor of 1,600 megawatts. It is then a big question of how strictly this criterion will be applied in the selection process because it could easily be used as elimination. We therefore propose to amend the text of the tender documents relating to the reference power plant so that it is built on the certainty that one of the tenderers will not be eliminated due to the diction in this section. Therefore, as a fundamental comment, we are making a proposal to put in the tender documentation several basic safety parameters that each candidate or all members of a potential consortium would have to meet, specifically in the Eligible Biders section. The requirement to establish such minimum safety requirements is based on a conclusion from a government-approved document Report of the Working Group of the Standing Committee on Nuclear Energy on Questions concerning the Security Interests of States in the Field of Nuclear Energy - Revision No 04, Responsible No V2019, page 21. Thus, this government-approved requirement cannot be ignored in the procurement documents. By the way, this requirement also requires that interested parties be tested against these requirements before being invited to submit tenders. Without these criteria, there would be paradoxically only economic or technical criteria in the tender documentation, which may be elimination criteria for some applicants. These even more significant safety criteria, which are even required to include the procurement documents under Article 4.6PP, would not be included in the procurement documents. Such a situation would be difficult to justify. Furthermore, it should be noted that according to the PPS, Annex C, the notification of the evaluation of tenders is to be submitted to the State by 31 December 2015. 12. 2022. The tender documents submitted indicate that the selection of the preferred tenderer or tenderer will take place on that date. We consider it necessary to make clear in the tender documentation that the evaluation of all tenderers will be submitted to the government by that date, regardless of how they have succeeded in this evaluation of their tender. If this were not the case, this would significantly increase the risk that there will be only offers from risky tenderers between the tenders submitted, which will make the decision-making position of the State significantly more difficult. The introduction of the SACCIB warning of 17 December 2018, hereinafter referred to as a warning. The submitted documentation does not contain any pre-contractual risk assessment pursuant to § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the cybersecurity decree is a mandatory assessment of the risks associated with the subject-matter of the selection procedure in which the warning would be taken into account, the calculated value of the risk and the adoption of different risk reduction measures are considered, it is not clear whether the information contained in the warning has already been carried out and therefore whether the information contained in the warning has been taken into account to design the documentation determining the selection of the supplier. The NUKIB warning is generally referred to in the TaC, but only in relation to subcontractors and persons controlling the supplier and, moreover, only in relation to warnings to indicate the threat of a particular supplier, although it is certainly appropriate to keep this formulation in the documentation, since it is not possible to predict what measures will be issued by the NUKIB in the future. A warning such as this has not yet been issued. The warning of 17 December 2018 identifies the technical and programme means of certain manufacturers as a threat to cyber security, but not to the supplier's person. Recommendant comments. Please note that, unlike the documentation itself, the possibility of rejecting the applicant's government is not mentioned in the table to sum up the security interests identified by the intelligence services as a project. According to the information available, the investor continues to work on the text of the tender documentation and adjusts it even at a time when another is running the time limit to be used by the State to prepare comments on it. It should be noted that, therefore, we assume that the investor of the State will be quite clearly and accurately communicated to the State what differences have been included in the documentation and for what reasons between the first version of the State sent and the second version, which will be transmitted to the State after the inclusion of its first comments. Given the scope of the text - thousands of pages - the investor cannot expect the state to agree "blindly" with the second version unless it is made transparently aware of what changes have been made in the text in the meantime beyond the State's comments. Therefore, we expect changes to be clearly highlighted in the second version of the procurement documents compared to the first version. Transparency vis-à-vis the State is a condition necessary in this respect to enable the State to express its views positively on the text of the tender documents. Another problem is the possibility of taking positive account of the supplier's offer of co-financing. On the one hand, this option involves suppliers to complete the project and at its price, but also eliminates some candidates. Commercial suppliers, which are not supported by a State that may take into account non-commercial interests, may not have this option available and may disadvantage or eliminate them from the State-supported tenderers. In the tender documentation is the only one who is required to have clearance according to Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on classified information, companies that will provide physical protection of premises as subcontractors. At the same time, there will certainly be a number of suppliers who, by the nature of their access to parts of the nuclear power plant and important information, should also be tested somehow. [[sub]] We recommend to consider whether to require verification even for other defined suppliers. [[sub]] [[13.20 hours]] It is possible to inspire in this respect also provisions on sensitive activities and security competence under Act 412/2005 Coll. The procurement documents should also include the fact that, under the first implementing contract, the government may have security requirements which the investor is obliged to take into account at any time during the project for the preparation and construction of a new nuclear source. Every investor should be explicitly aware of this fact, therefore it should also be developed in the procurement documents. It is a question - and I am coming to the conclusion - whether, for the elimination of identified security risks, the demand for delivery by companies registered in the territory of the European Union or NATO State is sufficient for selected technological parts. Taking care of such a company is not a complicated problem. Rather, it should be done with who is the ultimate owner or who is the producer, the producer, the technology concerned. We therefore propose to amend the diction in this respect in the procurement documents, respectively. Exactly. We also give consideration in the case of formulas that refer to persons controlling suppliers or subcontractors, whether to replace the formulation of a person controlling formulas, or not to extend the wording in the sense of a person able to enforce on the decision-making of a supplier or subcontractors.' So also on the basis of this document, and I repeat, it is a document prepared by our security community, the Ministry of the Interior, the Security Information Service, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Cyber and Information Security Office, so it is not just some view of one body of national security, but it is a cross-cutting material on which everyone has agreed to take it seriously, and I believe that the documents as well as the questions put in this document will be discussed properly in the Security Committee. And on time before the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. President Radim Fiala will now appear. And since he is not present, Mr Lukáš Černohorskýý will not speak, but if the rapporteur reports, he should take precedence. No, Mr. Lukáš Černohorský has the floor. You have your word, only after you will be heard by President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to introduce, in general, an amendment that I uploaded to the system under 6877. The purpose of this amendment is that a legitimate investor is not chosen by a cabinet but transparently competing in an open auction on the basis of an offer of an implementation price. This auction is preceded by the proposed amendment to Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy - which I have tried in the past to discuss simultaneously, unfortunately, the House has opposed this - and to change some laws. With this press being treated as a House press of 870. In the event that this amendment is not adopted at the time of the selection of the investor, the general adjustment in the administrative procedure for the selection of the application will be followed, by offering the criteria for the selection of the most appropriate tenderer the implementation price. The implementation price must be charged to protect the state budget and consumers from abuse of the law. Without the cost ceiling, the government would basically get a pretty interesting Bianca check. Then, in a detailed debate where I would like to apply, I would like to sign up for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. President Radim Fiala has withdrawn his application. Anyone else reporting? The rapporteur? No. Mr Lipavský is reporting for a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u63	Hello, Mr President, I would like to make a motion under Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, and that is to return this law to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, because I believe that the facts that have now been raised during the House's plenary are essential enough for the guarantee committee to renegotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u64	Yes, I have noted this proposal and we will vote on it after the end of the detailed debate. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. The rapporteur has an interest in the final words after the general debate. First, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay too much, but I consider it polite to respond to at least two or three things that have fallen. Let me sum them up in three areas. The first is the security, and I have no choice but to say that this law does not really concern security measures. I understand there's an effort to express myself. We have a number of institutions, a number of working groups. It's still under discussion. Of course, we are proceeding precisely according to the government resolution of April this year, in which the security requirements of the state must be taken into account. These are clear and I think that all of this follows, there is no need to go back to that. What was said here in Mr Žáček's rather long speech, I am merely stating that these were documents, letters from September of this year, which, of course, are being worked on. The vast majority of the subjects or comments that were there were settled. Among other things, there was another group meeting yesterday. That means, at this point, a whole range of things that have been said are already irrelevant to discuss, because they are long overdue. What I'm going to admit is that I'm more surprised, is that there's only so much to discuss about the matter of the law, and that's the price. That's electricity buyout. That's what everyone should be interested in, because here we're basically preparing a price distribution of electricity, though, truth, only from this source, to the next generation, or even generation. That's the law. That might have been quite interesting, and I think a substantive discussion, because that's what I believe everyone cares about. Of course they're also interested in security factors, but I'm saying again, it doesn't solve the law, it can't solve it, because it's a very technical law from this point of view. With the exception of Mr Čižinský, who I thank for having at least responded to the way prices could evolve. Unfortunately, and to say that in a moment, his opinion is not entirely accurate, but I will try to explain that. As far as renewables are concerned, I understand the rhetoric. There was a nice ad for renewables. We like renewables, we don't have anything against them, but it doesn't address this law again. Mr Jurečka put in connection with the Act on the transition to emission-free energy to OZ. There's a little bit of reproach that we should be focusing on renewables just as much as nuclear resources. I think we've been doing this. And it has to be said that the government in which KDU-ČSL was involved also did so. This was done by the fact that in 2009, 2010 what has been troubling us today is a 600-billion-dollar bill for renewable resources. So here I wouldn't say it wasn't invested or invested, but to be objective, that's just the past. Now they're investing in renewables no matter what's been going on here 10 years ago. Only through OPPIK recently 4 billion. Only through the environment, Ministry of the Environment, another CZK 17.2 billion. The Government's Legislative Council, everything has been worked out with regard to this. As far as this law is concerned, in the sense that it is aimed only at the core, it is, of course, possible to add anything to this in the future. And now the last thing, which I am responding to Mr Čižinský's substantive remark, is what I disagree with. This law does not mean that we will buy electricity significantly more expensive. The opposite is true. It is precisely by the mechanism we set here that we set up that in the future electricity from this source will be either cheaper than the price on the market at that time, which, of course, will not mean that electricity will automatically be cheaper, which depends on how much difference it would possibly be and whether it would be reflected in consumer prices or companies. But it's possible. But in any case, even if the price were to evolve, and I respond directly to what Mr Čižinský said, positively, that means that the price of electricity would be reduced as a result - you said renewable sources. Although there are prognosis that it will go exactly the other way around, but let's admit this option, it could happen, even according to ČEPS, it's unlikely. Then the difference between how much will be bought out and how much would be lower, given how the price of money is calculated today, it would mean in the wallets of citizens, companies in the order of hundreds of crowns every year after 2036. In other words, ten crowns a month. On the contrary, this law and the adoption of this mechanism will mean fixing this price. That's what I think is most important. This means that this law will allow consumers good and advantageous electricity prices, of course only in the 10 percent of how much energy is produced there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u66	The rapporteur, Mr Petr Dolínek, will take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u67	Thank you, first of all, through the procedure. Since a proposal has been made by Mr Lipavský, who must be voted after the general debate has been concluded before a detailed debate, I will therefore ask before I speak if the President would invite his colleagues to the hall. Mr President, we will vote in three or four minutes. Thank you. I'm just gonna make a point. I just wanted to ask for space. Thank you. And then, of course, there will be a classic debate if the resolution is not adopted. I would like to reiterate to what has been said here, what I said at the beginning of the whole debate, that as far as the possibility of discussing this law within the various committees was concerned, there was room. The House made it clear that it wanted to discuss this law in a short reading of 30 days. During this was a week for committees, so there was certainly room and we could be familiar with the committee resolution today. I, as rapporteur, did not receive any resolutions from other committees on these matters, but what was said in 90 percent of this debate really did not concern the substance of the law in terms of the rapporteur, although there are things that Mr Třešňák or Mr Lipavskýý said, which have a convention in the amendments, but it concerned, above all, the other, the twin, and that is the government's step, and that is the documentation prepared. I think we all know that the Security Council of the State will be meeting next week to judge this. After all, a fellow Member named Žáček mentioned it. I am in the meantime, therefore I was late, I apologize for not being here for three or four minutes to speak to my colleague, because he was mentioned here, but he is excused. The Foreign Minister is prepared to take part in any body of the House to discuss this area. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček also assured me that, of course, on this subject in terms of what the House has the right to do - we must also realise that one thing is the responsibility of the government for preparing documentation, and the other is what the House may have to do with it, something like a public hearing on committees and the like - is ready. And I expect either Vice Prime Minister Hamáček or his authorized representatives to be prepared. So I would like to see behind the rapporteur's role that we have actually worked off the fact that it is not that the government is hiding something from the Members here. Here's the bill we're discussing. We will vote whether we will return it to the committee or not, and then amendments will be read. And next door is what's mentioned here, and it's important. It is, as I said, a very important point for social democracy, but also for a number of other clubs. It is here, as I have been informed by the members of the government, ready to cooperate with the House's bodies for discussion. That is what I think for the role of the rapporteur that it is appropriate to emphasise here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u68	Have a good afternoon. So those were the final words. We will vote on the bill to be returned to the guarantee committee. There's an application for check-out, so I'm going to sign you off, sign up again with your voting cards. [[Ambassador Ferjenčik knocks on the bench.]] Mr. Ferjenčík, you've been knocking since I said I'd check you out, but you're active. The motion to dismiss will not be put to the vote until the third reading, so we will postpone Mr Čižinský. We will vote on the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation - Mr Lipavský's proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 4 registered by 75 Members, for 27, against 15. The bill was rejected. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Petr Třešňák, Mr. Jan Čižinský, was the first to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u69	Good afternoon again. I have justified my proposals in the general debate, so now I will just confirm them in detail. I therefore report to Amendment No 6872, 6874, 6875 and 6881.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u70	Mr Jan Čižinský will now appear and Mr Jan Lipavský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u71	Allow me to apply to Amendment 6885. This is indeed a symbolic proposal that releases all the paragraphs, and it is a symbol of the fact that economically this proposal is very risky and very ruthless for the taxpayer. After all, I would like to comment on Minister Havlíček, who here, and I must say that I do not fully understand it, he said that many speakers did not speak to the point, because the law talks about prices. I was speaking to the point, but I don't think it's fair to blame someone for not talking to the point when the law is called confusing. So I do not understand why Mr Jurečka, who spoke about renewables, was criticized here when the law is called as if he were talking about renewables and low-carbon economies. And then let me make one more comment. As far as the solar tunnel was concerned, there was more than 100 crowns a year, it took 1,000 and 1,400 crowns. And here Minister Havlíček spoke of 300 crowns, which is the estimated cost in 2026, and he calls it a discount. Because if it were certain that electricity costs would increase, then the law wouldn't be here at all. But since it's not certain, and because there's a great deal of fear that electricity will be cheaper, here's the proposal. So I would like to say that I have therefore proposed a rejection of this law and that I really believe that none of us should vote in favour of a proposal that opens the way to a contract with such parameters that we would never have concluded in private life, which means taking a mortgage for 30 years if I don't know how much it costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u72	Mr Jan Lipavský will now appear and Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of a detailed debate, allow me to take note of the two amendments that are included in the House's system under 'No'. 6879 and 6878. Mr Dolínek recorded nicely to me when he spoke of what is and is not in the intentions of how the House should act. Neither I nor our political party will ever allow the security of the Czech Republic to be privatised by signing a contract with another entity to switch to meeting the security requirements. That's totally unacceptable. The government must document its actions to the House. And in the event that the government was unable to demonstrate its actions, and in the event that the government wanted to proceed contrary to the security of the Czech Republic, I proposed two amendments that will clearly ensure that companies from Russia and China will not be able to participate in the construction of a nuclear power plant in the Czech Republic. The justification is attached to the explanatory report of the amendments, so that everyone can find and find out there. I have already submitted the number of the House document. [[13.40 hours]] The second amendment has the same function, but it is very useful in promoting transparent procedures, equal treatment of tenderers and market access, that is, what is ensured by the multilateral convention on government procurement by the World Trade Organisation. I believe that I have sufficiently justified the two amendments that I am proposing together with Pavel Žáček. But I think there is agreement on them at least in the democratic opposition. However, I believe that government Members and Members from other parties will also somehow look at the arguments and realise the risks associated with these two countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u74	Mr Radim Fiala will now appear and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u75	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I was a member or a member of the Standing Government Committee on Nuclear Energy and there was an agreement on this government committee, after all, on the proposal of the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura, that we should deal with this amendment by the end of 2020. To be precise, no political party has had a problem with this agreement except for the pirát who abstained in the vote on this agreement. That is what I think needs to be put to the right place. However, if I am to keep this agreement, I suggest we cut the deadline for the third reading to seven days. This is according to § 95 para. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u76	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear and Mr Michálek will prepare himself. With priority rights? [[Yes.]] I thought you guys had... There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We are now discussing a second reading on this very important bill. It is basically the last chance that there can be an amendment to ensure the things that are needed. We have not yet had the complete opportunity to get acquainted with detailed analyses of the benefits of this project. And we know that, historically here in the Chamber of Deputies, it did not always go well when the promotion of renewable resources was approved. This resulted in things that were very disadvantageous for the Czech Republic. For this reason, we would need some time to examine this matter thoroughly, or to prepare further amendments to ensure that there is really no deviation from the godly intention, and that is why we want to take this last chance, if necessary, to prepare such amendments. I'm begging for a recess at the club meeting. I think we'll just need 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u78	Mr Bartošek will now speak with priority rights. And after that, Mikuláš Ferjenčík is ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Just for a little while. In a detailed debate, I refer to my amendment, which I presented in the general debate. It's under 6868 in the system. It is an amendment that puts a security policy into the law to ensure that the government respects the security strategy of the Czech Republic when entering into and concluding a contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u80	Now Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík wants to speak? [[Conjecture and commotion in the hall for a recess request.]] Now the problem is that we have a new meeting starting at 2:00. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u81	It was signaled to me from our club that there was some discrepancy on the board that there weren't two colleagues who signed up with the amendments, so if they could still speak with the amendments, and then the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u82	Please, Mr. Ferjenčík will perform. Mr Černohorský wishes to speak. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u83	I will only formally sign up for my Amendment 6877. I gave the reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u84	Okay. So I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Ferjenčík? [[Mr Michálek's response.]] Now you're gonna take a break? Our next meeting starts at 14 o'clock. So we're gonna take a break for 15 minutes? [[The reaction of Vice-President Philip that this cannot be done. Conjecture on how to proceed now.]] We have a meeting called for 2:00. Sorry. I'd just ask you to put those demands on the microphone, 'cause that's not the way to do it. I'm just gonna ask you to formalize it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, Mr President. So 15 minutes to 14 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u86	Okay. So I'm interrupting till 2:00, and we'll start at 2:00 p.m. with the 71st meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-001-001.u87	We've got 14 o'clock, we've had a break at the Pirates Club meeting. And since we have a fixed meeting at 14 o'clock, the 71st meeting, I'm interrupting 67 meetings indefinitely.
