ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-001-492.u1	492. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. On the agenda of the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 17 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have 10 more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And now we will proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. The first interview is an interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to fare reductions for disabled pensioners. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 707. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Since Andrej Babiš is excused, the interruption of this point continues. Another intervention is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Olga Richterová's interpellation on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 709. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Since the Prime Minister is not present and is excused, the question is also interrupted in his presence. Another intervention is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's interpellation with regard to two thousand billion of our citizens' money from lithium. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 770. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. As the Prime Minister is excused, the interruption is ongoing. Another interpelation is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the lack of capacity of primary and kindergarten schools. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 897. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Since Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is excused, the interruption is ongoing. Another intervention is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpellation on the information of self-government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1015. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. As the Prime Minister is excused, the interruption is ongoing. Another intervention is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpellation with regard to compensation to the regions. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1017. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. As the Prime Minister is excused, the interruption is ongoing. Another interpelation is an interpelation to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade, and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, who responded to Mr Vít Kaňkovský's interpelation on the concept of radioactive waste management and spent nuclear fuel in the Czech Republic and the process of finding a suitable location for building a deep storage of nuclear waste in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1075. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. As the Deputy Prime Minister is excused, the interruption is ongoing. Another interpelation is an interpelation to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, who responded to the interpellation of Mr Stanislav Blaha on the security of railway crossings. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1096. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. As the Deputy Prime Minister is excused, the interruption is ongoing. Another interpelation is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Jakub Janda's interpellation in support of the sports area in the time of the corona crisis. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1098. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. As the Prime Minister is excused, the interruption is ongoing. Another interpelation is that of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, who responded to Mrs Olga Richterová's interpelation on the rules for the payment of the contribution of the Antivirus programme. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1107. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. As the Secretary of State is excused, the interruption is ongoing. And I'm saying that we're done for the day... [[Interview off the microphone.]] There's some contradiction, so we'll wait for the check-up. So everything's fine, and I'm saying that we've finished discussing the answers to the written interpelations of Members for today. And since there is no agreement within the political clubs, I am interrupting negotiations until 11.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-001-492.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government - in fact, only the Vice Prime Minister is here. Quiet in the Chamber, please. And we should focus on the firmly classified points number 118, House press 1091, amendment to the Alien Residence Act, first reading; paragraph 94, House press 961, amendment to the provision of child care services in the children's group, first reading; and paragraph 27, this is the House press 736, a government bill amending certain laws in connection with further electronisation of the procedure of public authorities, second reading. Then we would discuss further points according to the approved agenda of the meeting, namely the laws at second reading. This afternoon, logically, on Thursday, we will consider paragraph 493, which is oral questioning. The chairman of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek is now applying for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-001-492.u3	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to propose changes to the agenda. The first proposal responds to yesterday's state budget interruption by nine o'clock tomorrow. And I, Mr President, would suggest that we include it on Friday 18. 12th after paragraph 338, which is the state budget, points directly related to the discussion of this draft, and these are the budgets of the various funds. These are specifically points 339, 340, 341, 342, 343 and 495. That's the first suggestion. And the second proposal relates to paragraph 282, House press 938, it is about compensation for damage caused by protected animals, namely compensation for damage caused by the cormorant, and I would suggest that after some debate with the club presidents today for 12.40 hours, firmly for this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-001-492.u4	Thank you. I'm marked. Anyone else on the agenda? Okay. [[No one checked in.]] In that case, we will vote. I'll turn it around. First, we will vote on today's day, i.e. we will begin the press meeting at 12.40 pm in order for colleagues to be able to prepare for it, because they might come for the materials. Vote number... I'll check you out, yes, thank you for the heads-up. Please log in with your identification cards, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, we will decide to start discussing paragraph 282, printing 938, today at 12.40 hours to compensate for the damage caused by specially protected animals. I've started voting 166 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against the cormorants? [[There's a laugh coming from the O.R.]] All fishermen, yes. Thank you. Voting number 166. Registered 86 present, 83 against no one. The proposal was filed today at 12.40 hours. And now to change tomorrow's agenda. Yesterday it was decided that the draft law on the state budget would be the first point of our negotiations and then followed by the budgets of individual funds, paragraphs 339, 340, 341, 342, 343 and 495. And 338, so we don't miss a three-year view. We will decide by voting 167, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 167. Of the 84 Members present for 73, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. So we have changed the order of points in this meeting and we can deal with the fixed point today. And that's point 118. I will ask that Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček and rapporteur for first reading Zdeněk Ondráček take their seats at the rapporteur's table.
