ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-018-335.u1	335. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Prague on 11 December 2019 /German press 686/ - second reading I ask the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the floor. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-018-335.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now presenting a double taxation treaty with Bangladesh, signed on 11 December 2019 in Prague. The Czech Republic currently has international agreements on double taxation with 89 countries, but Bangladesh is not yet among them. In international taxation, it is crucial whether a country which has a certain role to play in the Czech taxpayers' business financial intentions has a tax treaty with our state, and this is certainly the case with Bangladesh. [[12.40 hours]] The Treaty does not replace the national tax rules of the Contracting States and cannot thus establish a new tax obligation but only regulates the obligations arising from national rules. It contributes to the objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income between the two States, that is between the State of the source of income and the State of its beneficiary. Some OECD conclusions, the BEPS project against tax base reduction and profit shift are also included in the text of the contract. Bangladesh is one of the countries of the geopolitical region of South Asia and with its economy it offers Czech investors certain opportunities for investment, such as in the textile, transport, energy or light industry. The overall contribution resulting from the application of this Treaty will depend in practice on the future development of the various forms of economic cooperation. In this context, it can be noted that, given the relatively high imports from Bangladesh, the balance of mutual trade is significantly in favour of this country. According to available sources, trade turnover between the Czech Republic and Bangladesh amounted to almost 623 million US dollars in 2018. In the year-on-year comparison of turnover with the previous period, this is an increase of about 22 percent. The share of Czech exports in turnover was around 9 percent, with the aim of the Czech party certainly reducing this deficit of mutual trade. This comprehensive tax contract covers the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income. It also provides for the basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both countries as well as the principle of non-discrimination, the informal resolution of disputes arising from its implementation, as well as the relevant level of information between the competent authorities of both countries. The contract will increase legal certainty of potential investors of both countries, create room for other Czech business entities, thus helping to develop mutual economic relations. The double taxation treaty, which is now proposed in the relations between the Czech Republic and Bangladesh, was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, and, of course, also responds to the internal tax rules of both countries. Thank you for your attention and please ratify this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-018-335.u3	I ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Petr Beitl - but I see Mr Jaroslav Bžoch now to justify the committee's resolution, on behalf of the committee, which has been delivered as House press 686/1. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-018-335.u4	Thank you for the floor. The Foreign Committee dealt with this press at its 42nd meeting on 2 April 2020 and after the statement of reasons by Deputy Minister of Finance Ing. Mgr Stanislav Kouba, Member Ing's intelligence report. Petr Beitl and after the debate the Foreign Committee recommends The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Prague on 11 December 2019. He instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-018-335.u5	I am opening a debate that I do not see anyone registered to, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking for final words. I don't see interest. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'm gonna go, there's a little bit less of us right now, I see, so maybe I'll wait a minute. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the resolution? Who's against it? Voting number 136, 90 Members registered, for 77, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm ending second reading of this press. The next item is point number
