ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u1	9. The draft law amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /German Press 530/5/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments and we received the resolution as House Press 530/6 and the information on the amendments was put in our mail. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us and I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch comment on the amendments tabled for the plaintiffs on the Senate resolution. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u2	Thanks again for the word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health, which, particularly at this time, appears to be one of the key ones. The main reason for submitting this amendment before the outbreak of the pandemic was in particular the need for the adaptation of two Union regulations. The bill has now been returned to this House by the Senate with its amendment for discussion. The Government's bill, as I said, was, in particular, an implementing amendment which did not bring about fundamental, new, substantive solutions to the problem. When discussing the Government's bill in the Chamber of Deputies, the question of compulsory vaccination and its presentation in the opinions of health service providers was most discussed. The Ministry of Health has supported only those amendments that will not lead to a reduction of collective immunity, which is a prerequisite for preventing and spreading serious infectious diseases in the population. In the Senate, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the bill and recommended it to the Government for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, with a change in the conditions for the admission of a child to pre-school facilities. [[correct: return]] According to this proposal, it would not be necessary to undergo regular vaccination against viral hepatitis B. This amendment was also adopted with further adaptation of Section 50 and clarification of the penalty for infringement. Another amendment to the text approved by this House is the extension of the list of health service providers who carry out vaccination against yellow fever by physicians with specialised competence in the field of occupational medicine. [[18.20 hours]] If I am to comment on the proposal in question, I cannot agree with the proposal on how it was referred to the Senate. I believe that, as far as vaccination against viral hepatitis B is concerned, it is to be maintained, and that is why I cannot support the proposal. I therefore ask you to accept this bill as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, I realise that the current situation is perhaps the worst for discussing this law. Unfortunately, this is a return to the law under the normal regime, whether in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. As the Minister has already mentioned here, and as you have in the Senate's information, our amendments essentially concern three areas. The one, I believe, is actually technical, because it is a yellow fever vaccination, and the point is that working doctors would not be able to carry out vaccinations based on the change or failure to make changes. The second concerns a slightly more controversial matter, and this is when the current situation allows children who are not vaccinated for parental decisions to be prevented from attending kindergartens or from being admitted to kindergartens that are financed from public budgets, but that at present they could be admitted to pre-school facilities that are not financed from public budgets. But here is one paradox, because these children from three to five years of age or six, depending on when this child is scheduled to enter school, suddenly, when he reaches five or six years, he has to enter the preschool facility without any change to their health status, has changed to the situation. That means the situation is very illogical. As to what the Minister has actually spoken most about, and this is the hepatitis B, I would just like to point out that from 2011 to 2017, parents used pentavaccine without vaccination against hepatitis B. We all know how this disease can be transmitted, that it is only blood or sexual intercourse, and it is whether vaccination against hepatitis must really be mandatory in those first months of infants, or whether it is sufficient time to vaccinate against it at a later age. I am fully aware and in favour of compulsory vaccination. First of all. Secondly, I am aware that the World Health Organization has placed inoculation among the ten biggest threats throughout the world. On the other hand, if there is any way for parents to decide whether or not to inoculate a child, then we are faced with a problem of what we will do with a parent who decides not to inoculate. As I said, I personally and most senators disagree, on the other hand, these parents are subject to a penalty of up to CZK 10,000 from the municipal authority, and that is all. I do not think that we should proceed only in this restrictive way, because, for example, when I return to pre-school children between the ages of three and five years, parents will not put him in those private facilities today, they will have to stay at home, apply to the employment office and, if necessary, pre-school facilities will move from the sphere, let's say, legal into the sphere of the grey economy and there will no longer be any control of the state. So consider, ladies and gentlemen, whether it is better to maintain the current state of affairs at least in this and not to leave the possibility of placing these unscathed children legally in pre-school facilities that are not financed by public budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u5	Thank you. The rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, the Health Committee, was Mrs Olga Richterová. She is also enrolled in the debate, so I ask if you wish to speak before the debate. No, so I am opening the debate, and Mrs Olga Richterová will speak in it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u6	Thank you for the floor. It is a surprise to me that the Minister of Health had such a strong attitude towards hepatitis B vaccination. The Senate amendment, as we read it, merely says that yes, let it continue to vaccinate against hepatitis B, but let it not be an obstacle to possible admission to kindergarten. And this is exactly the approach that has been discussed many times, and it makes sense that it really is the least crucial of the mandatory vaccinations. And precisely because it's such a debatable duty, it seems very appropriate to us at the Pirate Club that the Senate has returned it. We also consider the other changes to be correct refinements. And I'm saying for the club that we're going to support the Senate version, and we're going to be against the original version of the Houses, because the Senate is just so much better. So much for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u7	Thank you. I still have Mr Polanský application, but I assume that's a mistake. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Is there any interest in the final words, please? Mr. Secretary? He's not interested. The senator's not interested either. So we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I hear an application for check-out. I checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. I would remind you that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 530/5, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House press 530/6.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 46 registered 174 Members, for 81, against 6. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. We already have the necessary number of votes set. So the motion for a resolution is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in the version in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 530/5.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, 179 Members registered, in favour of 154, against 2. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the Senator, and I am done discussing this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-21-ps2017-045-01-005-009.u8	Well, have a nice evening, and we'll go to the next point. This is about
