ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u1	250. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 178/2016 Coll., amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, as amended /German press 645/ - third reading The minister of education, youth and sports Robert Plaga and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, took the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 645/3, which was delivered on 6 March 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 645/4. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Mr. Secretary, are you interested in a performance? Yes, it is. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the introductory words. As far as the bill is concerned, I assume that the content of the bill is well known to all of you, since we have been discussing it here for quite a long time in previous readings, and I will therefore limit myself only to a brief comment on some amendments. First of all, I would like to stress that we as the Ministry of Education insist on our original proposal. This means that we do not agree with mere delay of the obligation to take part in the joint part of the Mathematics examination. The two-year delay that was proposed was considered insufficient before the outbreak of the coronation. And I would like to ask you once again to consider the possibility, if you have decided to support this amendment, the possibilities to support the government proposal, because none of us had anticipated that delay was expected that in the next two years, or even this year, those steps to start improved mathematics teaching could take place. And let's not kid ourselves that the coronation didn't interfere in any way. This means, in my opinion, that the two-year period is insufficient from my point of view before the outbreak of the coronation, so the argument is even more valid at the moment. That means, at a time when perhaps next year's teaching will be partially disrupted, I think the more weight of the argument is to support the government's proposal and leave the option to the next period. This, of course, does not mean that the teaching of mathematics, and we agree on that, I suppose, all cross-cuttingly in some way, was not important that it would learn less. As regards the change in regional education funding, we support the division of hours so that mathematics can be taught better. So these are arguments, in my view, that appeared between the time between second and third reading in favour of supporting the government proposal, compared with the amendment to a two-year delay. But of course, the final decision will be yours today. As regards further amendments, I would like to draw attention to the proposal tabled by Mrs Melková, which, in addition to the partial debyrocratisation relating to certain school financing requirements, also allows the reimbursement of transport costs, to actions in the context of education from the state budget, from the so-called ONIVs. This is a very important amendment. I thank for him and believe in his cross-cutting support. Among the other amendments tabled by Members, I would like to comment on Mr Špičák's proposal, which increases transparency in the state-funded entrance exams for secondary schools and graduation exams. For example, Cermat would have to publish new tests or keys for proper task solutions or information about the course of the tests including verification, so-called validation, tests. I think it's a very desirable direction for the openness of the information. So this proposal has our support, too. Furthermore, Mr Kubík's proposal concerning the award of tests for a single test, the award of tests, the joint part of the graduation exam, where it becomes clear that this belongs to the original MŠMT, which can delegate them to the centre, if you want Cermat. Now that I mention graduations and uniform entrance exams, of course I know that there is a long-term hunger after graduation exams and uniform entrance exams. So I announced that by mid-May at the latest, the Ministry of Education would announce specific dates in view of the epidemiological situation, when didactic exams will be a graduation exam, when there will be a uniform entrance exam for four-year and multi-annual schools, a multi-year grammar school. I said the probability that they would take place in the first half of June is very high. Today I can assure you that the specific scenario I will present at 2:00 p.m. corresponds to what I originally announced. The epidemiological development is very good, which means that both the uniform entrance exam and the graduation exam will actually take place in the announced period, which means the first two weeks of June. Since we will also be presenting support applications for practicing these tests, whether Cermat or the Czech School Inspectorate, plus other matters relating to the decree related to the press conference for the specific dates and the school parts, I will draw your attention to the 14th hour when we will publish specific information related to the single entrance exam and the graduation exam. Thank you for the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u3	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. And the first person to debate is Mr Mihola. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u4	Hello, again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I am glad that we are finally getting to the finals, at least here in the Chamber of Deputies, the Education Act. To be honest, I find it very strange, strange that such an important law, such a discussed law, such an expected output, I hesitate to say whatever it is, but it is always good to be clear about it, even if you don't like it in the end, it lies here for so long and just everything possible and impossible was given priority. But I'm glad it's coming to that, and I believe we can handle it. This gros is clear, as the Minister pointed out, actually compulsory mathematics graduation. I will not forgive myself here for commenting on the fact that the compulsory mathematics graduation, which was adopted in the past period to 2021, was brought down by the opening of a discussion on this subject. As I perceive various flows across the clubs on this matter, I am surprised that the coalitions of the government could not make it clear and that it actually opened the debate itself because we could have been on or just did not have to go through with the intervariants. [[9.30 hours]] I and the KDU-ČSL club consider the worst version of the two-year delay. It is an unserious option in the sense that responsibility will be switched to the new House. I don't want to say the new minister, I don't have a crystal ball, but there'll just be a new composition, I suppose, in many areas. And I just don't think it's really good and serious that it's a pretty serious step that's not being discussed for, of course, the last five or six years, but for, like, the last 30 years. But we're missing the point, folks. This is the content of the subject of mathematics and its usefulness towards practice. Because that's why math is such a scarecrow or why some people just don't want it as a mandatory subject. Perhaps it is because they do not perceive the importance of the subject towards practice. And I don't think that's been able to move forward with this long discussion, either. So the KDU-ČSL Club will support the delay in math graduation as presented by the Minister of Education. We therefore reject the amendments by two years, to be perfectly clear. However, we would like the discussion to move very strongly forward precisely so that, with regard to the next elections and the next House, when the parties will report to such or other forms of graduation exams, this can be addressed from the beginning and at full throttle. This law contains, as has been said, a number of interesting amendments. I've taken the liberty of presenting some of them, too, and I'd like to ask you for their support. It is, on the one hand, an amendment that goes with the Committee's proposals, or it has the support of the Education Committee, and you will find it under number A17. It relates to dispensing in own kindergartens. Recently, forest kindergartens have had their day, and this phenomenon is developing successfully and some hygiene demands are also being placed on them. And it is here that the establishment of spending in their own kindergartens will make it much easier for them to function and to fulfil their obligations under the school law. So that's the first request. We also have the preparatory classes of fellow Čižinský. I would also like to ask for support. He also got it on the school committee, so I believe he will find it in the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, I would like to emphasise the amendment under the letter J, which has already been tabled here by me and the KDU-ČSL and is signed across other clubs. It was a question of the preamble to the school law, or not a particular paragraph. But in my opinion, a teacher with 27 years of experience is very important especially in the context of emphasising culture, roots, identity and so on. There is often the subject on the table here, and that is to sign up to the ancient, Jewish, Christian roots of Europe, as well as to this culture and also to humanistic traditions. So there is actually everything important about European history. And at least if anyone feels it's necessary, it's nothing to do with anything, but I see it as very important precisely because these topics are very often opened up and we are very stumbled to the very roots, culture, identity. So let's confirm that even where this person is actually forming, where the education sucks the most. I think it definitely belongs there. I would like to use this speech to ask the Minister of Education. I know that he was commenting here, I was listening really carefully and I know that the situation is not simple and that everyone would want a quick solution that would lead to everyone's satisfaction, but it is not. That's why I'm very understanding. But we are really bombarded, literally bombarded, letters, not only with different opinions, but above all with petitions, which relate mainly to the term of graduation exams and also to the entrance exams in high school. And I have repeatedly asked the Minister, and I will do so here, too, now that I have him on the side of me, whether he would consider taking the exams in high school - because, unfortunately, he in that emergency state, unfortunately, the parliamentary proposal that is ready cannot - I stress - he cannot actually begin his journey by the House, because we have an emergency situation. So I can't influence it, which is why I'm asking the Minister very much to consider the second term. There's a lot of interest, people write. Perhaps many have not yet realized. Since they don't know the date of the entrance exams, they haven't really gotten their eyes on it yet, that suddenly instead of two dates, the way the students had it in the previous years, there's only one term. I think that the epidemiological situation, which the Minister often emphasizes, has shifted after all. Compared to that, there will be theatres, cinemas where there will be a lot more people, where there will be students and pupils, for example alone or with their parents, and in more ways than one can properly regulate, really regulate, in those two terms of entrance exams. This is a very important step for the young person who's actually starting to walk into his life by applying to high school. And they didn't have the options like the previous years to prepare in some prep courses. You know, it just wasn't possible. There's some stress about the whole situation, too, and it's only in quotes that they've had a lot of time to prepare, that's not possible, that's not adequate. So I very much intercede, and I ask the Minister to consider this decision and evaluate it according to a new situation and allow pupils who apply to those secondary schools to have two dates of entrance exams. And then I would also like to ask that parents have the opportunity to appeal as always. I don't really see any reason for it to fall out of the school code. It is an important instrument that belongs to democracy and is interested in it, not that it is not. He's interested. And this matter is being dealt with at the moment by the Ombudsman and, respectively, Deputy Ombudsman Mrs. Magister Šimůnková. I've actually made it into the amendment to the school bill that I've prepared, but which can't be discussed because of the emergency situation, even explicitly. So it's not a conjecture, something that seems and doesn't seem to anyone, but it's based on a legal opinion, and I think this important instrument should be in school law. This is the case in the surrounding countries, and it has always worked here. I don't really see any serious reason not to. So, Minister, please, and I urge you to consider this decision for the sake of those pupils and their parents. I really have a lot of insight in a number of things for your difficult situation, and there are a lot of things like math graduation that we support according to your draft. But try to listen to us, and above all to those who are most concerned. That means the students and the parents. Thank you, and I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u5	Thank you. Next up, Mr Dominik Feri is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let's end the uncertainty and cancel the mandatory math degree. You know, I think I might be the last of you to graduate. I graduated in 2015 and I still have a vivid memory of high school teaching, how we treated it as students, how teachers approached teaching - I had a very good teacher - and also stress before graduation and the overall impression of graduation. I liked math very much in high school, even though I didn't graduate from it. My love was and still is history and history. But if I were to create a parallel from the position of a person who hasn't been out of high school that long, and I had to make, like, a proposal that would introduce a mandatory history degree, I wouldn't do that. And I'd be against her. And that's for a number of reasons. The first one is some kind of personal philosophy, and it's its own view of the world. This means having the opportunity to live your own life and to take on my own happiness and make my own decisions for which I bear my own responsibility. This means not making young people stupid, giving them the opportunity to choose the future profession and study that precedes it, and not telling them clearly: you're going to graduate from history, the one from mathematics. Of course, it can be argued that such a view could reflect the significance of any graduation course. No matter what everyone's graduating, there's no need for Czech! But it's not meant to be. Surely there must be some basis for what is really important. And that brings me to the next reason. As if the final exam was the goal. But the final exam isn't supposed to be the goal of education. The goal of education is to be the very path, the contribution to life. And during the debate - I am not a member of the school committee, but I have followed the whole social debate - there was repeatedly an argument: after all, math graduation is not complicated, it is totally banal. And you don't feel that this argument is completely unconvincing? That we're going to create a test that doesn't have enough levels just to say, "well, they know something"? Shouldn't our activity be directed rather than the four years being wasted here? So that the four years were with the math that entertained the students? With teachers who enjoy teaching mathematics in new ways, attractively. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this approach will prevail here, an approach of choice with regard to future occupations, and that we will decide to teach compulsory math graduation. And that's going to be A. B will be that, as the Chamber of Deputies and as Members who are not on the Education Committee, we will provide all the assistance and support to the Minister, the school heads, teachers and students to entertain them with mathematics. Because as much as it may seem that we're in different positions here and we're in different positions, I think we're all primarily interested in taking something from the math students. And the means, in my opinion, and in my view of the world, should be in that teaching to be interesting, attractive and beneficial, and not in some glaigh-shatted test at the end, which will bring no result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u7	Thank you and I will ask Mr Karel Rais. Mrs Hyťhová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u8	I wish you all a good day. I would like to comment on the amendments that I put in there with my colleagues, which means I would like to comment on what has already been said here: the math exam. For one thing, I would like to say that there are probably different opinions in each parliamentary club and that it is not a political issue, but that it is rather factual, professional, when just one group is for mathematics and the other is more or less against compulsory mathematics. So it's a matter that we were dealing with here in 2016, when there was some reasonable compromise, when some fields of culture, social affairs and health have been removed, and those by decrees, I think, governments, I feel, have been excluded. I thought that was reasonable. Now the situation has escalated that either someone is there is a group of people who are in favour, and the other group that is against. I believe that there are several reasons why fear is, and I think it is completely unfounded. First of all, the exams - they say that 21 percent of applicants are basically failing. It's given that we can do, we can figure out tests where it's going to fail 100 percent, we can come up with tests where it's going to fail zero. It's all about what those officials are doing, what they're doing with central math tests. And that's what I was talking about at second reading. I think it's one of those mistakes. The second of these errors is, of course, the capacity devoted to mathematics. Three hours a week isn't much, and of course it's consistent with the fact that these people have a problem with it. I would also like to say that what I said here last time, that it is basically necessary to look at it objectively again. And some kind of objective tests are PISA tests, and when I look at the PISA evaluation, I don't think there's any significant drop. Here is a pretty often argument that we have to change the methodology of teaching mathematics. It should be noted that since 2016, we have essentially had the opportunity to change the mathematics mainly as officials, especially as a teaching methodist. That they haven't changed it, that's the result. And then the argument that two years isn't enough for that change. Well, it's not about the two years for which the delay is, it's since 2016, or the four years that those people who are in charge of math were just doing. I would like to stress that mathematics is in a way a communication language and it is a communication language between techniques. So it's exactly the same as for someone, for an English translator, for example. They are also communication languages like Czech, English, no doubt about it. It's the same for the technicians. So now we want to build it, here I hear quite often, especially from Minister Havlíček's efforts, that the goal is to build Country for Future, that we want to build an industry that will be based on increased added value using artificial intelligence, using modern technologies. Those are all things where the interest is the same. And we need high-quality, not only college students, but high-quality high-school students. And I think there are technical reasons why math should be. The political reason is - some of us were here in 2016 and we voted in favour of the law and there was a justification in that law, of course. And here I would like to quote this justification, which I think is still up to date, when it says: "A lack of emphasis on mathematical education during the course of compulsory schooling, as well as in secondary school teaching, its low efficiency and, at the same time, a very fluctuating level of mathematical literacy of secondary education graduates with a graduation exam, and therefore, in recent years, this has been the subject of criticism of both university teachers in particular in the technical direction, as well as natural and economic focus, as well as representatives of business and employment associations, in particular the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Economics and others." That hasn't changed at all. I can confirm that as the Emeritus Rector, because when students come to school, we just need to do different training courses to even the level of math. [[9.50 hours]] In conclusion, I see that everyone is as worried as you are about listening to me, which, of course, I'm sorry. I just don't think it's possible to expect a significant increase in GDP here without high-quality people who have passed their graduation exam not only from mathematics, but who have passed their graduation exams. And especially in the long term, there can be real damage to Czech society. That is why I would ask - even if you don't listen very much - for the support of this proposal. Once again, it is not a political issue, it is a professional matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u9	Thank you. The next will be presented in the general debate by Mrs Hyťhová, and Mr Baxa will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u10	Hello. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. After long discussions on this press on compulsory graduation, we have found a position whether we support or not to support this law. We have decided to support this government law at third reading, including on the basis of various reports, e-mails, requests from students that I have met personally. And I would say that they asked us to simply support this abolition, actually leaving the choice between language and mathematics. So we will support this proposal. We will also support some amendments relating to... Being open to school law isn't primarily about math. So some of them seem good to us and we support them. However, we cannot agree with a two-year delay, which is why we will abstain from this proposal, even because if this crucial thing is postponed by two years, I fear that there will again be some uncertainty with those students about what will change or will not change in those two years. And I don't think keeping them in doubt is the right move to take. That's why we're sticking with these proposals, because we want the students to know what they're graduating from, so that now that they're applying to high school, they know what they're getting into. And it's not possible here every year, every two years, to mess with this law and change it as we please, or who's in government and all that. It was also mentioned in plenary that this year, in a crisis situation, it was said here by Mr Mihola, I think, so I would also like to comment on this, there should be two dates for the entrance exams and for graduations and so on. We have consulted this, too, and we are of the opinion that schools are already having a lot of difficulty in passing one term of high school entrance exams. And we believe that at this point in time, in this coronavirus pandemic it is necessary to meet schools. Of course, we don't want to deprive students of their right to do so, but for those schools right now, it's probably best to leave them one term. And I believe that even those students and schools will eventually be able to do it all in this crisis situation. Furthermore, if we should talk about mathematics graduation in the future, it is necessary to think about whether there is really no need to work on the mathematics methodology, on the overall teaching so that it is simply not a fear for students, so that they are not afraid to go to high school with simply not graduating, and from the first year they will sit in uncertainty if they will actually do the graduation. That's wrong. It should be so that the number of hours of mathematics was balanced so that at one school it was not three hours of mathematics a week, at the second school six hours of mathematics a week. And in this case, you can't set the math degree in the same way, the same subway. I just can't. Students should be able to prepare for it as well as quality. That's why it really needs to be thought about, and it's the main task of the ministry for the future, working on it so that the math graduation doesn't make it easier, I don't think, but just open the door so it's not such a scarecrow for the students. And I think it's a really big task for the Ministry in the future. We don't want to lower the level of math and especially not the level of math. But as I'm saying, you need to work on a methodology to improve your teaching. So I believe that in the future, the Minister and the Ministry, whoever the minister is, will focus on this issue, because at the moment, it is probably the only thing that can be done. And otherwise, I'm counting, or I'm hoping that this bill will be backed up today, because the students are already waiting for it. I believe that even now they may be watching a live feed and want to know what they're going to be like. And I believe that eventually the House will decide that they will not have to graduate from mathematics and will be able to choose. So I wish them a successful graduation, and go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u11	Thank you. Mr Baxa will speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that, in the midst of the very difficult situation that the Czech Republic is going through, in the midst of the corona-based pandemic and the resolution of its consequences, this law has arrived until the third reading of the Chamber of Deputies. I am convinced that further extension of this matter would not really be possible anymore and would only make the situation more difficult for students who are very anxious to expect a report on what they will be graduating from next year, what they will be graduating from in the coming years, and what the situation with graduation of secondary education will actually look like. I would like to begin by saying that, despite my deep disagreement with the many steps that the Minister of Education is now taking, I am very pleased that the Minister has found the courage in recent months and has put forward this proposal, which means delaying the introduction of compulsory mathematics, respectively. maintaining the choice between math and foreign language graduation. I think the proposal is, in principle, correct. I don't want to attack, criticize, in any way, seriously, opinions that are the opposite. I think my colleague Rais here very clearly summed up his view of the matter and that the arguments can be found on both sides. But I am convinced that, in the current state of Czech education, in the current situation in education, maintaining the choice between mathematics and a foreign language in state graduation is simply the only correct solution. I've mentioned the reasons here several times. I'll sum them up into a few groups, more like single points. The first is the fact that long-term results for state maths show great differences between the way the math exam affects different types of schools. And in my opinion, we can't just go over this fact by saying that somewhere students are getting ready more, somewhere better, somewhere worse, and somewhere better. It's just not supposed to be like this. Students should not only have equal rights but also equal opportunities. Another fact, which may be a little hidden behind arguments that often sound in discussions, is that the level or intensity of compulsory math graduation did not pass sufficient, in my opinion sufficient, control over the long term, or I would say some kind of examination. The opinions of some experts have long shown that those who prepare tests for state math graduation are handling, manipulating and not having sufficient public control over how the tests are compiled and what they are actually monitoring. [[10.00 hours]] The third reason is that the choice between compulsory mathematics and foreign language should actually reflect the preferences of individual students who want to graduate. Everyone according to their focus will say that there is one subject of mathematics, or another subject of foreign language equally important, so that there are either both or one of them. However, I am convinced that under the current system students simply have the right to choose for their future professional focus, especially for their future university studies, whether they want to graduate from mathematics or from a foreign language. As a long-time gymnasial teacher, although neither mathematics nor foreign language, but geography and history, I also know that the teaching of these courses course runs throughout the course of the study. Somewhere, the discussion, as in a special way, turns to the fact that if there should be no compulsory mathematics graduation, it degenerates the teaching of mathematics itself. Of course, in different types of schools, the subject is taught to various degrees, but at least I know from my gymnasial experience that mathematics is taught very intensively during individual years of study. It is one of the key subjects regardless of whether it is or is not finished with mandatory graduation. So here I strongly agree with Professor Rais, for example, that mathematics is important, but I add that it is really going on. Another fact that I think plays a very important role is that, if a government version of the school law is adopted, that is, the choice between foreign language and mathematics will be maintained, so it will open up the space for some, say, longer-term discussion about what should actually include a graduation exam, what should be its meaning, how should it be adjusted. I would like to make a more pragmatic comment here, because in my opinion, at a time when a compulsory math degree would have been approved, or if it had not been possible to postpone its introduction in any way, it would be very difficult to intervene in any way in that system. And I am convinced that we need a revision of the state's math degree. Experts' views point to the fact that, in fact, over the years of the state's mathematics graduation, there has never been a relevant assessment of its impact, that is, what has improved in education by being a state's graduation, what skills, knowledge, prerequisites for study have been strengthened. And this evaluation, which is normally done in different fields in society, should definitely be done here too. And it hasn't happened yet. But at the moment, as I'm saying, when a compulsory math degree would be introduced, I think it would be very difficult to change. It is actually a series of arguments against which, of course, some counterarguments can be raised. But I want to add one important thing. While maintaining the current state of affairs, this means that there is a choice between compulsory mathematics and foreign languages, nothing in my opinion harms, it gives students real space to choose according to their professional orientation or future higher education, which way they will go, and therefore what course they will choose for graduation, so the introduction of compulsory mathematics, and thus three compulsory graduation courses, simply parts of students will complicate their future application, their future professional life, their future choices. And I am convinced that this is certainly not the way we should make decisions. I would therefore also like to join the proposal to support this solution. I do not want to use my appearance in this regard to comment on the current situation. However, it is already necessary to make a clear decision on the date of graduation, which concerns the current students and, of course, from the next year, what will be graduated from by those who are very eager to expect it. I must say that the discussion of this law has aroused a great deal of interest among the students in the Chamber of Deputies. That in itself is very right. And I think those high school kids have the right to expect that we will make the final decision today and that it will simply be clear what awaits them in the coming years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u13	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will be next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am quite surprised by the debate at the Chamber of Deputies, which has been here since the autumn, when it is offered to colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members who were not here during the approval of the current form of graduation exam in 2016, that this seems to be the case here, so it seems from the contributions, there has been no debate on what the graduation exam should look like. It's just nothing. It's the way it's made up. That's a lie. The debate was held here, it was very thorough through committees, it was professional, it was political, and it was mostly public. The debate on how the graduation exam is to look was conducted publicly, professionally and politically at least from 2014 to 2016, meaning two and a half years. What is now part of the school law means that at the end of high school our graduates are to prove their knowledge of the Czech language as a mother tongue, a foreign language and mathematics, is just a reflection of the expert opinion that at the end of high school education we should show and be verified that we have some level of mathematical literacy, reading literacy, and then competence to communicate in a globalized world. And that all these three skills and competencies have the same weight; they have the same weight because we do not know where fate will take us in the future as part of educational trips or work and professional trips. And it is a professional consensus, it is no policy that all three competences and knowledge are equally important - equally important, it is in the law. The debate about some compulsory or optional mathematics is absolutely false. As far as the expertise and the political and public debate is concerned, the fact that this is to be the case is still apparent, the more it naturally resulted from 2016, but also now, from a permanent and unchanged strategy for education policy 2020. What I am saying is that this is even apparent from the long-term intention of developing the education system, which we, colleagues and colleagues, received in August last year. What happened in the fall, I still didn't hear the House plenary, which is what I'm most interested in, actually, is that we're retreating from this trip. As for the amendment Vondrák, Rais, Valachová, it does not say anything revolutionary. He is just saying: let us continue this transparently discussed, publicly discussed, professionally and politically discussed path and in line with what the Minister of Education submitted to the Government last July. Yes, let us take a little bit more time, because some things have been delayed, and we propose that we achieve this goal in two years, that is to say, in full compliance with official government documents on the basis of public, transparent, political and professional debate. [[10.10 hours]] Colleagues and colleagues we forget. That's actually what I'm most sorry about. I've already mentioned it here. I don't understand why we forget and why we don't talk about those students who have been preparing themselves honestly since September 2017 to pass the Czech, foreign language and mathematics exam, because every reasonable person who knows something about education knows that this is not a decision that is made several months before graduation. And why are we forgetting that these students in spring 2016 were the first to pass the national math entrance exam right when they entered high school. That's not what we're talking about here either. And they are also students who for the first time in history until now, unfortunately, until now for the first time in history in September respectively. In spring 2017, they knew exactly what high school they were going to, and they knew exactly what they were going to be for graduation. This is precisely given since January 2017 publicly in the Government's regulation. Everyone knew. I'm applying for this major, I know what I'm gonna be graduating from in four years. Everyone knew. We forget about these students, too. I don't understand why either. I must say that I want to support - and, of course, I will vote in favour of the amendment that my colleagues and I have drawn up in order to follow that path, the plan, the goal, and to ensure that future students and seniors have such a valuable graduation and to prepare them as best as possible for the various possible educational paths they can follow in their lives. Then I am sorry that this debate is extremely hypocritical, because especially so-called - I say so-called, please - the elite grammar school has applied the method of balance between the foreign language, the Czech language and mathematics for a long time. If you take any highly successful gymnasium in terms of the success of the gymnastics and their subsequent educational trips, you will find that the vast majority of these students, the vast majority, take math to the very subjects that he currently has as mandatory, optional, so-called compulsory in quotation marks, because the school is leading this way. This means what is good for our elite grammar school, to have a Czech, foreign language and mathematics exam, so it is probably not good for all other children, students and pupils. I don't understand at all. Only this will continue to strengthen inequalities within the study knowledge and competences achieved, balance of these competences and then inequalities within their educational pathways. It is noteworthy that this is promoted by those who conjure themselves by wanting to eliminate inequality. It's also remarkable that there's been a lot of chatter on the counter, how clumsy our students are, how clumsy teachers are, then it's been demented not to say anything, but it's been said here, and it's very easy to track down. So please, our students are certainly no more unsuccessful in mathematics than students in the surrounding countries. There's been a lot of lying data posted here. The failure of our seniors after the second attempt, because it is measurable in terms of European comparisons, i.e. I'm a senior, or I'm not, a few percent. That means, on the contrary, our students are very successful. Very successful. As far as the preparation of our schools is concerned, I just want to point out that since 2014, framework education programmes have been heavily adapted in terms of the number of hours of mathematics. The Hejný method has spread massively in the last five years. And I could talk here for the next three hours. After all, the Ministry of Education itself presented all these data to the Education Committee in July, including what it does. Finally, because I don't want to prolong it anymore, I just want to mention that the international PISA tests already in 2016 showed improvements in our pupils, as well as two years later, in mathematical literacy, as well as in the last two graduation exams improved the success of the mathematics exam. Those are the facts. I note that the two better results for the international comparison of PISA are, of course, a general verification, it is not that someone chooses a math degree - just to prevent the popular arguments of those who, for some mysterious reason, do not want a balance at the end of high school education between Czech, foreign language and mathematics, because that is what we are discussing today. Finally, like Tereza Hyťhová, I would like to wish not only those of this year's graduates, because they have a particularly difficult but also all future success, the best results not only in the graduation exam, but above all the best knowledge, knowledge and competence to be successful. And I thank the honourable House for listening and ask my colleagues and colleagues to support the amendment Vondrák, Rais, Valachová. And finally, because unfortunately, the school law contains a number of other changes and it always shrinks to compulsory mathematics, so I just want to say that I fundamentally disagree with the fact that, as part of the last reading in the Chamber of Deputies, the competence of Cermat and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports should be changed without any public, political and professional debate, and I also strongly disagree that the National Education Plan should be repealed in this way, as foreseen by the Education Act. It is absolutely, absolutely unacceptable in this way to intervene in such key matters just before the third reading vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u15	Thank you. And it is Mr. Excellent for the debate that is next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u16	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would also like to comment on this press, including as a longtime teacher and director of the secondary school. I do not wish to respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Valachová, although I believe that some things here simply cannot be combined, to put together the entrance exams and I do not think that there is really any justification at all. But in general, and it also follows from the debate and the debate that is going on here not only now in the third reading, I sometimes feel that there has been an atmosphere of voting on the existence and absence of mathematics. But that's not true. That's not true. I have to agree with Mr. Rais here. High-quality mathematics in secondary schools, and now I'm not just talking about grammar schools, is of course essential and important. Mathematics is the language of natural and technical sciences and the discussion of this law or topic obligatory, or optional, or voluntary mathematics - we really don't change anything about it. Unfortunately, this is where the idea or atmosphere was created that we would achieve that quality by setting the form of the output. I think that's exactly the mistake, exactly the mistake. Since we will not achieve the quality from behind, we will not achieve the quality by addressing the level and form of the output, but we must focus on the very content of the subject. And here I would also be critical of the Ministry - and I am not saying that directly to this minister, because of course he also had his predecessor. Here, not only at the level of the Ministry, but also at the National Institute for Education, we just overslept. The fact that we are having a de facto procedural debate here and a two-year discussion on how to deal with compulsory mathematics anchored in the law, but we are not dealing with the content itself, I consider that a key mistake. We really need to get back to the content here first. And, as I stress again, mathematics is the language of natural and technical sciences and, as such, of course, deserves this attention. I hope that the debate on the revision of education programmes will start again very quickly, because, in my view, this is where this debate belongs. I repeat, today is not Mažňák's choice, or Mathematics, or nothing. It's just not like that. For one thing, volunteering is preserved here. So if what Mrs Valachová said is that the students, secondary school students, have been preparing for the math exam for the long term, no one will prevent them from taking the math course in the next school year and the following. Even if they want a foreign language, they can choose it as an optional subject. We know the school code, and it's just that the possibility is preserved here. [[10.20 hours]] I would also like to stress and recall what has not been said here today, and this is also the novel newly created subject, or the graduation exam, the name of the math extending, the former mathematics plus, which, from my point of view, is also a helpful step towards the academic environment, towards universities. If colleges want to get out of high school and use it as part of an admission procedure, they have that possibility. Many of these schools are doing it today. And, of course, the others can do it for the future, and that is precisely by using this math-enhancing. So it's not like we're interrupting math, destroying it or anything like that. It's just about preserving the volunteering, the choice between a foreign language and mathematics, and, of course, working over the content itself. And then we wouldn't rule out that after some time, or our successors here and future ministers, we could go back to the debate on the introduction of compulsory mathematics at some types of schools during the graduation exam. I'm sure it's possible. But I consider the amendment to be very alibiistic, which only postpones mathematics for those two years. That really doesn't solve anything. It's alibiism, it's throwing the problem at the next House, the next minister, or the current minister. It really doesn't solve anything. And I am convinced that we should go exactly - and KDU-ČSL has said this in the long term - in the spirit that the Ministry of Education has made the proposal. Let me conclude by saying one more crucial thing. We mostly have to put an end to the uncertainty here today. You can argue that the law applies here and everyone knows what to prepare for. On the other hand, pupils, students, teachers, educators, school directors have been preparing for a change over the long term, and the uncertainty that we politicians have caused, Members, by discussing the press and the matter here for more than one year is what worries those schools very much. Pupils of the third year still don't know what they're up to, and so today the situation is all the more difficult the form of teaching is taking place at the time of the Coronavirus crisis. So I think we really need to fix this uncertainty very quickly. I have attended a number of discussions at secondary schools, not only at grammar schools, because this also needs to be stressed. The problem of compulsory mathematics is not a problem of grammar school. We're talking about preserving some relevance and the seriousness of the test itself. If we were to talk about compulsory mathematics in today's situation, then logically, the exam would have to be adapted in some way to the vocational schools, and I'm afraid that we would, on the contrary, go down with the quality and level of the graduation exam. And I suppose that's not what we want, that was one of the arguments that the Minister came up with. So let's put an end to the uncertainty that exists here, too, given the planning of the new school year. There's not 12 for the school principals in a minute. bohužel, it's ten past twelve. Here we have to say it self-critically towards us, towards the House, and each one of you, tell yourself who has been prolonging these past few months, and unfortunately sometimes completely targeted, the discussion of this press precisely because of some of their own political ideas. I think it was a mistake. I believe that today we will achieve this vote and go with the certainty of schools, students and students. Let me also conclude by expressing great respect for the directors, educators, pupils who are facing this difficult situation today. Of course, in a sense and still uncertain about how the end of this school year will take place, how the graduation exams will take place, or how the admission procedures will take place. I believe that the chaos that we are experiencing now in many areas will be able to put together very quickly within education so that the information is clear, understandable, so that everyone knows where we stand. I wish seniors luck in the difficult situation of this school year to pass the exam successfully and to take positive experience from the crisis situation we find ourselves in, all of us, pupils, educators and school management. Because I think every crisis is a sign of chance. And there's no point in just begging for what situation we're in, but let's also look for the positive. I believe that in this sense we will all approach this, including the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u17	Thank you. There is a factual comment by Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u18	Mr President, by your means alone, I would like to add a previous speaker, because he forgot to commend himself, Marek Výborný, because the steps to be approved in terms of mathematical literacy content were, of course, approved in January 2017 in a very detailed and transparent manner through the government's regulation by ministers for KDU-ČSL, ministers for YES and ministers for ČSSD unanimously. That's where the steps were supposed to be. And by simply controlling these tasks, you can find out who didn't do what. So I recommend that, if necessary, he also commend himself for this and stop using false political arguments that someone, I don't know, hasn't worked. The plan was implemented until July 2019, as proved by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on the Education Committee after all. And the plan was quite clear, and we agreed on it by all three of these political parties. So I agree with him, let's not bring politics into this, but it would be nice to say the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u20	Thank you. Since I was a participant in the events of the last parliamentary term, yes, I voted in favour of the amendment to the Education Act, which introduced compulsory mathematics graduation. Those debates made it clear that the list of fields to which this obligation would apply would be considered really well. And when the government meeting came up with an order with that list of disciplines, I didn't vote for him. I rejected this list of fields because it's illogical. The fact that some schools remained excluded, I think that there was also some political agreement of the then, let's say, ministers for social democracy, because if we are putting some disciplines there, for example, from my industry, in the field of vocational secondary agricultural schools, then I do not understand why secondary schools are missing there. I could go on, but what I think is essential is that if we go to secondary vocational schools to introduce compulsory math degrees and we want the same level as grad students, for example, at grammar schools, and logically we don't have the same subsidy for math classes, because those school curriculum just don't have it that way - I'm going to give a specific example, for example, for people who are watching us. In secondary agricultural schools, mathematics is taught in the first and second years. Within the third and fourth years, it is a form of seminars, and those seminars are, of course, allocated there in some kind of grant hours, and if we want to prepare those students in the third and fourth years of those seminars to the same level of mathematics graduation as, for example, grammar students, then logically, there won't be room in those seminars to prepare those students for those vocational subjects they went to secondary school for. And that's why for me, I say, the model, as it was set, isn't chosen happily. Let's say it makes sense for the future to adjust those parameters in terms of the list of disciplines, or it makes sense to adjust it by being two levels of math graduation, or then you have to reach into the individual hours of school educational programs in terms of vocational subjects and tell fair pupils and parents: you are going to high school, but the preparation for your expertise will simply be lower. And I don't think that's what we want here in the Czech Republic when we call for quality technical, digital and other skills of our students. So I'll stand by for what was said here from Marek the Výborný's mouth. Please, let the Ministry review these steps, the proposal, and don't make a temporary delay, which will only prolong students' insecurity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u21	Thank you. It's Mrs Kovářová's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to support the amendment, which I propose together with Petr Gazdík and Mr Barton. This amendment concerns the objectives of education and we are introducing new amendments concerning financial, information and digital literacy. I have to admit, as far as school law is concerned, I do not have a historical memory, but as far as I know, the law is from 2004, but I do not know if the objectives of education have changed. But what I definitely know and we all know what has changed is the time that is coming, and of course that time will change and there will certainly be new challenges. Children in the coming years in the field of education will face great pressure. High demands will be placed on them in the area of ability to work in context. Children need to go to future professions with unique knowledge that will represent a competitive advantage and, of course, we can also fly out in the innovation process. As far as information literacy is concerned, we are faced with enormous ambush in the area of information. For the record, in 2016, we had as much data as humanity could produce in 5,000 years. It is therefore necessary for pupils and students to know when and why they need information, where to find them, how to evaluate them, how to use them and what information is relevant. As far as digital literacy is concerned, it is of course important for students to know how to identify, understand, interpret, communicate and use digital technologies effectively and safely. The lack of digital literacy can lead to digital exclusion, and this may not only concern seniors or people with disabilities, ethnic minorities, but it manifests itself and appears across the population. Everyone is therefore at risk, and it is therefore important to put pressure on increasing digital literacy, and, of course, lifelong learning will play a key role in this area. Third literacy is financial literacy. This plays a very important role, even a crucial role in the decision-making processes of citizens in financial and monetary operations. Its absence often results in falling into debt traps and endless executions, which then affect the income of the individual, and in these cases the financial problems must be restored by the State in the form of social benefits. Dear colleagues, please, I consider how high financial, information and digital literacy will be in our society, so this will certainly help to cope with the time that will follow the time of Coronavirus, and it is these literacy that can decide how successful we will be. I therefore ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. We will continue with Mr. Petr Gazdík's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u24	Good day, dear colleagues and dear colleagues. We meet over one of the major novels that will affect the lives of hundreds of thousands of young people, and it can be said that it will affect the future prosperity of the Czech Republic. I was here at first reading saying that the starosta and independents support the compulsory math degree, however, that we generally just overslept in the area of graduation. The state graduation project after ten years shows that we as politicians are unable to agree and that the cyclical return is that the graduation is constantly changing. Stability is one of the important things in education. And we certainly haven't given seniors stability in the last 10 to 15 years, and by our actions, we're actually showing that we don't know what seniors are supposed to graduate from. One day the math is, one day it isn't. One day there's an essay, one day there isn't. A foreign language is once such, a second poppy. Just state graduation and its influence on us as a political representation shows that we are not going in the right direction. That's why we suggested what state graduation would look like to us. It is not only mathematics that is to change, but the whole concept of state graduation, which would be seen as a kind of high school minimum, which the student will make from Czech language, foreign language and mathematics. He can do it repeatedly, and this state section, or this high school minimum, is going to be a ticket to that profile school graduation. I said here at first reading that I call on the Minister of Education to convene a meeting of political parties, and I call on you, colleagues, to agree on what graduation will look like for at least ten years. In case we don't make a deal, the chaos will continue. An example of such chaos is the proposal to extend the deadline by another two years. For the next two years, students will be groped, students of the second and third years, who choose seminars, asking in February or March whether the mathematics will be there or not, will be waiting again for Parliament's decision. I welcome and thank the Minister of Education for calling for the first week of March the first meeting of representatives of all political parties represented in the House, from which a questionnaire was drawn on how political parties imagined graduation as a concept, and which I see as a good basis for some future agreement. By approving this law today, the work is not done, and I believe that the Minister, who now turns his back on me, will not turn his back on the work for the rest of the parliamentary term and will actually continue the work on the political party agreement on how graduation will change over the next ten years to reflect the real education of the 21st century. We Mayors at www.moderiskolstvi.cz published last year the whole concept of what education should look like, and the graduation exam is one of the cornerstones of the education system so that it can work. I believe, therefore, that the Minister will continue his work, and I see it as one of his main tasks by the end of this term, in order to achieve at least some elementary agreement on what graduation will look like in the coming years, because today we will not vote only on whether mathematics will be there or not, but also whether the graduation will change or not. [[reach]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u25	I thank Mr Petr Gazdík. That was the last one entered into the debate. Now also the rapporteur, Lukáš Bartoň, in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would like to express the opinion of the pirát. The pirates support the choice between foreign language and mathematics, so it is probably not unknown that we will support the government's version of the proposal, and we have presented it in such a factual way as a parliamentary proposal. We certainly do not agree that this question should be postponed only by two years, in fact, at a time when this government will no longer be here and it will be at the turn when the Chamber of Deputies will not be able to change it. The amendments that have come to this law have a lot to do with graduation, but most of these proposals concern the law in general. The school law is open and there are many amendments. We agree with many of them. These are very good some amendments addressing issues that are now bothering many schools in education, but I would not like to forget that some amendments go through without any justification at all, and I will mention, first, my amendment, which seeks to recognise the level of secondary education for high school students, but to fail their graduation exam, so that they have at least a level of secondary education without graduation, without an education certificate in the category of secondary education, where they are also now a one-year, two-year course. [[10.40 hours]] At the same time, I would like to ask either Mr Špičák or Mr Minister, who has expressed his agreement with his amendment, it is Amendment F, which gives Cermat the obligation to publish results, anonymous results from both the graduation tests and the uniform entrance exams. I wouldn't mind having this anonymous high school data appear, because the moment this data appears in machine-readable format, it will definitely start to develop unofficially the school rankings. Only on the basis of these data. However, when we also have data from uniform entrance exams, unofficial rankings of primary schools begin to emerge. High school is no problem, I think. High school chooses its own student. He may even choose his high school based on these rankings. But the moment we have elementary schools and students or that student should go to school according to the place of residence, and now there will be a ranking and his school just won't be in the top ranking, and every parent wants to put his kid in the best school, but he didn't know it yet, so the school ranking was called. Talking in the sandbox, when parents exchanged information among themselves about which primary school is good, which is worse, where they would like to put their child, and a lot of parents also choose different methods to get into primary schools, but also kindergarten schools, do not hesitate to change their permanent residence at birth or before the birth of the child just to get into the same school, and now they will be public rankings of primary schools, which will say something about quality, depending on how their graduates get into high school, how successful they are in the tests, in the entrance exams at high school. I don't think this is the only criterion that says anything about school quality. Definitely not. The Czech School Inspectorate also evaluates schools on 26 different criteria. I am clearly in favour of these criteria being part of quality management. But at the moment that only on the basis of these criteria will school rankings arise, it can lead to pretty negative phenomena in my opinion, especially for cities that have more schools, that suddenly start moving people to some elementary school, which will come first in this ranking, and vice versa, the one that will last will have a lack of pupils. So what's the department's position on whether it's consistent with the fact that these rankings are going to be created and whether it's beneficial for our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u27	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Bartoň. Does the Minister still want a debate? In the debate, Minister of Education Robert Plaga.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I was asked to comment on Mr Špičák's amendment. I have to say that I am surprised by the question, specifically from the pirát, because we are constantly being called upon to open up data in recent years, and the moment the amendment appears, which opens up the data of the Cermat, for which there is long-term demand, there is a concern that someone can use the open data to the detriment. I support this proposal because I think that publication of data is also correct in the case of primary schools. But I fully agree with you that - and so will the Ministry, the Czech School Inspectorate, in explaining the logic of the data, that this data really is not an indicator of the quality of the school. It's a success indicator for a single entrance exam. And, of course, they can't prevent it if it's open data, some kind of purposeful misinterpretation. But as far as any interpretation, recommendation of the Ministry or approach is concerned, the Ministry has long held the comprehensive view of the evaluation of primary schools and secondary schools. This means that this cannot be an individual criterion. I strongly hope that openness will not cause this disinterpretation on a mass scale. The key is - and to do this, we will educate the public not to look just at this criterion. So we are in favour of this amendment as a ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u29	Thank you, Minister. A colleague, Bartoň, is still reporting in the debate with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u30	I thank the Minister for this explanation. We pirát, too, are prepared to vote in favour of this amendment. I just needed to mention that this is a threat. And I fully accept the Minister's promise to try to have a methodology to ensure that these raw data are not misinterpreted by many actors in the field of education. Not the Ministry itself, but the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u31	Thank you. I don't have an application for a debate anymore. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words - Minister, rapporteur? Not the final words. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion before the vote. I'll ask the Minister to do the same. But before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I will ask the House for peace! We are in the final phase of the third reading, we will vote. Please, every information is important to make the right decision. I'll wait a little longer. So I hope that we won't have to name the individual groups, certain colleagues and colleagues. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u32	Thank you for the floor. The procedure is proposed by the Education Committee in the Houses of the Press 645/4. I suggest the procedure as well. Firstly, proposals legislatively technical, they are none. I will mention that the motion to dismiss the law has not been filed, so we will not vote on it. We will also not vote on legislative technical - given that they are not. So the first item will be the proposal A1, A3 and A4 of the Education Committee proposed by Mr Rais, Mr Valachová and the others, on delaying two years of compulsory mathematics and foreign language graduation. This proposal, if it passes, will also be voted both by proposals and by A2, or by B all and SD. These are conditional upon amendment A1, A3 and A4 passing through. Then it is possible to vote on what number he will have in the profile section, if mathematics is included there, oral examination. [[Question from the diaper.]] Yes, I told you. If he passes, they'll be voted out. There's a mutual exclusivity. But if it doesn't pass, they're unvoting. Then the school committee's proposals will follow. They do not apply directly to government amendments, but they concern the actual opening of the school law, namely A5, A6, A7, A8 and A10 together, A9, A11, A12, A13 and A14 together, A15, A16, A17, A18 and A19. Then Amendment C. Then all D - D1 to D5. E1 follows. Then F and F2 together. [[F1?]] Then all G - G1 to G3. Then H1 and H2 when H1 is approved is unvoting J1. If H1 is not approved, we will vote on J1 because they concern both the same chapters in the law. Followed by I1 and I2. And then the proposal as a whole. So much procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u33	Thank you for suggesting a procedure. I'm asking if anyone has a reservation on the procedure proposed by the rapporteur. It's not like that. We'll vote on the procedure. But first, I'm going to check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your I.D. cards to determine current presence. [[He's waiting for a while.]] I think the login status is stabilizing. The procedure will be decided by the 167 vote that I started, and I ask who is in favour of approving the procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 167, present 97, for 96, against no one. The motion was accepted, so we will follow the procedure. We have our first proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u34	The motion to dismiss the law has not been filed, we are not voting on it. There were no legal technical modifications either, so we are not voting on them. We approach point 2 of the procedure, voting on proposals A1, A3 and A4 together. This is the committee proposal tabled by Mr Rais, Mrs Valachová and others. This is a two-year delay in compulsory math graduation. I'm warning you - If this proposal is not adopted, proposals A2, all B and SD are non-voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u35	Okay. Opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u36	Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u37	The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u38	I started voting number 168. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 168, of the 101 Members present for 18, against 44. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u39	We will therefore proceed directly to paragraph 7 of the procedure because the A2, B and SD are unvoting, and this is the vote on Amendment A5 which is committee. It was submitted to the committee by Mr Rais, and this proposal deals with the fact that for failed graduates, i.e. high school graduates who did not graduate, only two years are sufficient to reach a teaching certificate. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u40	I started voting number 169. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 169, out of 100 of the 98 in favor, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u41	The next amendment is proposal A6 and A7. It is an amendment by the committee, originally tabled by Mrs Melková. This proposal makes it possible to cover transport costs for school trips from ONIV plus legislative technical adjustments. The Committee has delivered a recommendation on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u42	I've started voting number 170. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 170, out of 100 in favor of 98, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u43	Following is Amendment A8 and A10, also the committee proposal, tabled from Mrs Melková's original amendment, which deals with the financing of certain activities by means of a special-purpose standard instead of development programmes. It's about simplification. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u44	I started voting number 171. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 171, out of 100 votes 97 against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u45	We will now vote on Amendment A9. It is still a committee proposal tabled by Mrs Melková. It is a continuation that the special-purpose standard will instead of developing programmes with the possibility of taking into account the structure of school services by region. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u46	I've started voting 172. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 172, 101 Members present, for 98, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u47	We will now vote on Amendment A11, which is the last one that Mrs Melková has put forward. It's a committee proposal. This proposal concerns the possibility of adjusting the reserve. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u48	I've started voting 173. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 173, 101 Members present, 99 against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u49	The following is Amendment A12, which is a committee. It was submitted to the Committee by Mr Bartoň in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. This proposal concerns the management of chemical substances for the teaching of chemistry. Among other things, it also allows better organization in chemical Olympics. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u50	I've started voting 174. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 174, 101 Members present, for 98, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u51	The following is Amendment A13 and A14, the committee proposal submitted to the Committee by Mr Barton in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. It is an amendment that addresses the temporary replacement for the school head, the solution to the situation where the school loses its director during the term of office, until it is written properly - it will be sound. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u52	I've started voting 175. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 175, present 101 Members, for 100, no one against. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u53	The following is Amendment A15, a committee proposal submitted initially by Mr Barton in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. This proposal addresses the possibility of ending education for foreigners who have left the Czech Republic and do not respond to challenges. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u54	I've started voting 176. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 176, 102 present, for 101, no one against. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u55	The next proposal is Amendment A16, committee, tabled by Mr Barton in cooperation with the Ministry. This proposal addresses local jurisdiction for nostrification needs. Now there will simply be nostrification where the application has been submitted plus also solves interpreters. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u56	I've started voting 177. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 177, present 101, for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u57	The following is Amendment A17, the Committee, originally tabled by Mr Mihola, which clarify the new type of school catering facilities, introducing a school for forestry. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u58	I've started voting 178. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 178, present 101 Members, for 87, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u59	The following is Amendment A18, which was originally translated by Mr Rais. This amendment removes the national training plan from the law. That's all. The opinion of the Education Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u60	I've started voting 179. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 179, present 101 Member, for 61, against 12. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u61	The following is Amendment A19, the last committee, originally tabled by Mr Rais, which deals with the introduction in the framework education programmes of the content of compulsory teaching in primary schools over individual years and periods. The opinion of the Education Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u62	I've started voting 180. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 180, present 101 Members, for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u63	The next proposal is Amendment C. This is an amendment by Mr Čižinský, who deals with enabling the establishment of the preparatory class of primary schools and private schools. The opinion of the Education Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u64	I've started voting 181. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 181, 101 Members present, for 81, against 5. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u65	The following is Amendment D1 to D5 by Mr Kubík, who deals with the clear definition of competence between the Ministry and the Centre. The selection of tests of a single entrance exam and the award of tests of a common part of the graduation exam are originally to the Ministry, which can delegate it to the Centre. The opinion of the Education Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u66	I've started voting 182. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 182, 101 Members present, for 95, against one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u67	Another amendment is the proposal by Mr E1 of Mr Vácha, who deals with the appointment and place of registration of the principal of the kindergarten in agreement with the founder. The deadline is now set in the law from 2 to 16 May. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u68	I've started voting 183. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 183, 101 Members present, for 14, versus 34. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u69	The following is the amendment F1 and F2 by Mr Špičák, which sets out the Centrum's obligations to publish anonymous data from the results of individual examinations and maths. Issues, solution keys, validation of tests, validation protocols will be published. The publication will be in machine-readable form. The Education Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u70	I've started voting 184. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 184, 101 Members present, for 100, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u71	The next proposal is Amendment G1 to G3 by Mrs Melková, which puts into law restrictions on the use of mobile phones in schools and this restriction will be defined by the school regulations in schools. The opinion of the Education Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u72	I've started voting 185. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 185, present 101 Members, for 75, against 14. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u73	The next proposal is Amendment H1 and H2. This is Mrs Kovářová's amendment, which addresses the objectives of education. This is an addition to the aims of education, teaching modern history, financial, media and digital literacy. The opinion of the Education Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u74	I've started voting 186. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 186, 101 Members present, for 45, against 38. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u75	We will now vote because it has not been adopted, we will vote on the proposal J poslanec Mihola, who also deals with the aims of education and is brought to complement the civil responsibilities of adopting the traditions of humanism based on the ancient and Jewish-Christian spiritual legacy. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u76	There. I declare the vote 187 confusing and correct the position, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u77	I'm sorry, I've confused proposals I, and J. The Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u78	I've started voting 188. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 188, 101 Members present, for 34, against 36. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u79	We will now vote on the last amendment I1 and I2 by Mr Bartoň, which introduces recognition of secondary education for students who have completed high school and have not graduated from high school in order to achieve a level of secondary education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u80	Okay. Before the decision is taken, Mr Feri is likely to report with a factual procedural colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u81	Thank you. I'm late for vote number 185. I've got a pro on the high. I do not question the vote, I state for the Steno Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u82	He'll be in protocol. Now your positions. Mr. Rapporteur? [[The Education Committee is not recommended for proposal I.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting 189. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 189, 101 Members present, for 31, against 43. The motion was not accepted. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u83	Yes. Now the bill as a whole remains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-002-250.u84	We can proceed to the vote of the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and Act No. 178/2016 Coll., amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, pursuant to the House press 645, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Education law]] [[Education law]] I started voting number 190. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 190, 99 Members present, for 78, against 10. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I conclude the third reading of this proposal, item 250. We will continue according to the amended agenda of the meeting as we decided in the morning, with an interrupted item number
