ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u1	491. Control of the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1162 of 4 June 2020 to evaluate the course of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic and to propose further measures to prevent the second wave of the spread of the Coronavirus in the Czech Republic I would ask that Mr Jakub Michálek take the floor on this point, who, if he agrees, will also be the rapporteur on this point. The Member nods his mind that he agrees. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have handled the first wave well from a health point of view. But it cost us enormous financial, human, and moral resources. Turning off the economy caused thousands of jobs to be lost and brought economic uncertainty to the state, companies and especially families. But it did not bring the most important - a lesson. A lesson that would prepare us for the future. The future, which, unfortunately, includes covid disease. It was very shortsighted to talk about the Czech Republic as a premiere in the fight against covid. The Czech Republic is now facing a major epidemiological crisis, which is based on systematic work and a position facing the current situation. However, the government does not seem to do so. Yesterday's press conference at the ANO club did not mention the word coronavirus, so we do not count the questions of journalists who were smashed over. We very much appreciate the inclusion of this point and thank all those who supported its inclusion in their vote. The epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic is now significantly worse than in our neighbours. In the relative number of tests we are on the tail of Europe. According to ECDC data, we are the seventh least tested country in Europe. The rate of positive tests significantly exceeds the 5% limit recommended by WHO. Let us say openly - the ECDC notes a dangerous rate of disease growth in three European countries: Hungary, France and the Czech Republic. At this point, you cannot put your head in the sand, the situation must be faced with maximum effort. This speech - and I thank the Minister of Health for being here - is not to humiliate anyone. It is an effort to make a rational description and a rational solution to the situation. We are therefore trying to act as constructively as possible and to come up with concrete proposals that we can discuss and, if possible, implement very quickly. I don't want to repeat myself and talk about wasted and expensively bought out time in the summer. We only want to solve the situation constructively and bring solutions that will benefit citizens of the Czech Republic. In May we presented the strategy under the motto of the Future now and from our measures you took over e.g. traffic light. But that's later. Thanks to our pressure, the results of positive SMS tests can now be announced and thus significantly accelerate the flow of information. When I recall how the communication was in June of this year, that means that the opposition was accused of haunting the second wave, while Mr Prymula now announced that the second wave was coming, when Prime Minister Babiš said that there was no need for a special plan, because the plan is that they are watching it every day and that the smart quarantine is watching it, I must say that the government has significantly underestimated the situation. The government is far from reflecting all constructive comments, and it does not even fulfil its tasks under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Tasks whose proper fulfillment would bring us a much better position in the present unfavorable situation. On 4. 6. We have assigned 11 tasks to the Government in the Chamber of Deputies. Let's look at the most important of them: Did the Prime Minister inform the Chamber of Deputies on preparations for another wave of pandemic? No. Is the government communicating emergency measures and information on coronavirus factually and intelligibly? No. Did the Ministry of Health come up with a imposed testing strategy? No, we still only have a draft and no official version. Was there a clever quarantine and her performance on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies? It didn't, the ekaranténa doesn't work and unfortunately there is a beautiful view of non-cooperation across the government coalition. Instead, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs deals with shady. Let's look at the overall balance sheet. Now let's see how the government performs its coronavirus tasks in the form of a traffic light. [[It shows a copy to Members and places one copy on the government bench.]] I'll donate one copy to the government. So the government, based on the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1162 of 4 June 2020 to evaluate the course of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave of the spread of Coronavirus disease in the Czech Republic, received eleven tasks, and if we look for example. At the regular meetings of the epidemiological Commission, we know that the last meeting of the epidemiological Commission took place in May. This means that there is a huge several-month delay during which the epidemiology committee did not meet. That's why it's red. The report on the possible arrival of the second wave was to be received by the Chamber of Deputies every three months, the deadline was 4. 9. and the Chamber of Deputies did not receive a report from the Government. Pandemic traffic light - I have to commend the government in part here, because the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies has been implemented and put forward a pandemic traffic light, even if there are certain shortcomings that I will still be talking about, and there is no basis for concrete steps and measures that are linked to that stage. Regular and understandable information to the public - I guess I don't have to comment entirely. When it comes to information to Members under applicable laws, unfortunately, those in cases where we have e.g. they asked the Health Committee to provide us with essential information and data for our decision-making, so we did not receive them again. With regard to the testing strategy that the government was to process, the task is partly fulfilled because the government presented to the public a draft which it submitted to comment, which I commend, however, to this day, and this is a relatively long time after the deadline set by the Chamber of Deputies, the final testing strategy has not been issued. With regard to the completion of the smart quarantine and its presentation to the Chamber of Deputies, the government has actually presented a new version of the eRousek 2.0 application to journalists, not the Chamber of Deputies, as it was in the resolution, but we do not yet know how it will work. However, it must be appreciated that the government is aware that marketing support is also needed to install the app, because when we look at the data that only 100,000 people have downloaded the eRouse 1 app, this number is quite insufficient in the ten million-dollar Republic. Basically this type of tip does not have a significant effect. With regard to the next point in the field of education, the publication of a support plan for distance teaching and publication of a plan for the functioning of schools in the case of the second wave, there I think the government has done the task, so we evaluate it in green. And last point, eBook support strategy in public libraries, so in this respect, as far as I know, the government has done nothing at all, so that's why we're assessing red. [[14.40 hours]] When we sum up the individual points of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, of the eleven tasks, the government has completed two tasks, partially completed three tasks, failed five tasks out of eleven, which means almost half, and there has not yet been a deadline for one task. This means updating the type plan. So, in this respect, basically, out of the ten tasks that have already been completed, five were not sufficiently fulfilled. So the overall balance is quite sad. I am not talking about the fact that the processing of certain tasks is certainly not at a sufficient level reflecting the seriousness of the current situation. Of course, we all understand the workload and the stress of the ministry, the officials and all the responsible employees. On the other hand, some respect for democratic institutions and the fact that such a serious matter has been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, which has expressed its views in resolutions, would, in my view, be appropriate. The Department of Health handed over the so-called traffic light as a system of degrees of pandemic emergency. However, it has failed to communicate fully, some citizens do not understand and trust it. For example, green indicates a lower pandemic grade than white. And government officials can't agree, and they call the same color orange and yellow. So it is necessary for citizens to understand government action so that they can take them as their own. It has never been more important in the history of the Czech Republic for citizens to trust government and government action, but this trust must be ensured by the government's maximum transparency, clarity and clear communication. Anyway, to get back to the government's steps. It's already 11. 8. The expert group at the Ministry of Health agreed to wear drapes in indoor areas throughout the Czech Republic from 1. 9. This measure was consulted by the Prime Minister on the National Council of the Government for Health Risks, declared by the Minister of Health to be withdrawn directly at the request of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister also gives unsubstantiated opinions about the weakening of the virus, which are in direct conflict with what the expert epidemiological group of the Ministry claims, namely that there is no scientific evidence yet of a falling virulence of coronavirus. The Prime Minister stated in his statement that the government would not impose restrictions on economic character, and pointed out that the number of new cases is rising jumpingly and many people behave as if the coronavirus had disappeared. That's true, of course, but they wouldn't do that when people talk about how the virus gets weaker in Hi. What else did the Prime Minister try to drive? Croatia and 60,000 Čech. European countries have implemented measures to return their citizens from specific regions of Croatia, only the Czech Republic has not. How many imported cases do we have in schools? We don't know, and we'd better close the schools. How many people were infected in Croatia and brought coronavirus to us and spread it around? According to data of the Ministry of Health, this is currently the second most common import of diseases into the Czech Republic. So has there been a qualified risk assessment and this has been done on the basis of some marketing survey? Not only did the Ministry not know how to set up an infoline for coronavirus at the beginning of spring and a bunch of enthusiasts had to do it for him, but now in autumn, when you decided to set it up yourself, no one even noticed that the new infoline was on another number, and I don't even comment that it's a paid line. What else isn't done and should be done? Hygiene doesn't have a system of eCarantines so that health professionals can digitally expose quarantine, like the incompetents. The whole process here stands on the MPSV. I'll tell my specific story. I have met - I have already said this here - with Mr Navrkal, who had covid, and the county health department called me on the ninth day after the contact. So I was quarantined for one day, and I didn't get any paper or any legal decision on quarantine orders. Nothing came into the data box, so the law of the law. I understand that the situation is complicated, but this is about the correct setting of electronic systems. Putting decisions and delivering to a data box really isn't such an insanely complicated thing that a supplier can't implement it the way it's done in other agendas. The resulting absurd situation is underlined by the fact that hygiene sends quarantine exposure into its own hands. How a person in quarantine is supposed to take over a letter, that's a real mystery to me. What really surprises me and staggers me is the capacity to trace to hygiene. All summer, you know you have a capacity of 700 cases in the current cast, and now in the fall, you're gonna start looking for people who can handle it. You should have dealt with that in May, not September. I'm gonna give you an example from practice again. When I took the test last week, the line had an hour, this week it's already an hour and a half. From the mouth of Minister Vojtěch on the Health Committee 19. 8. It was said in response to our open letter that they monitor delays between the test result and providing this information to the tested person. In this respect, we would like to know what the average delays are - and I must say that where I was, it worked at the top, at the General University Hospital in Prague - how it develops in time and what you intend to do to make this time as short as possible. Of course, it is also about monitoring other metrics, which are essential for proper evaluation of the management of the situation and, where appropriate, the adoption of other measures. Those metrics shall be the time between the decisive moments, in particular the time between the finding of the reason for the quarantine order, the tracing of the infected person and the date on which the risk contact of the person in quarantine with the infected person occurred; the time between the finding of the reason for the quarantine order and the conclusive information of the person to be ordered by the quarantiner; the period between the conclusive information of the person to be quarantined and the conduct of the test; the period between carrying out the test of that person and informing him of the test result. It is, therefore, for us to have this data as a regional sanitation station to monitor the situation and, where appropriate, take action on a weekly basis. In what position are workers of hygiene who have given up weekends and personal life in the fight against coronavirus? Their financial assessment is insufficient, many of them work in the ninth grade, 25,000 gross after 20 years of practice. Change it. This is money that makes sense to spend, because it depends on how many people die. Let's respect their work and give them the terms. The fact that eRouse uses 2,5 percent of citizens can only be considered a complete failure. In neighbouring Germany, almost 20 percent of people use its equivalent. And the government hasn't done anything to change that. It is enough to walk around the House building and observe how many Members and Members have the application. We all know he's eating the battery because there's a bad bluetooth setup, but I hope this situation will improve with eRouška 2.0. There is no user bonding, no systematic promotion. In some countries, they have achieved that they have 50 percent of users, as in Singapore. It is no wonder that many people do not trust and have trouble identifying themselves with government measures. The fact that people refuse to follow extraordinary measures is only a fault of government and its communication. When my colleague Olga Richterová turned to the Ministry of Health at the beginning of the summer, namely on 2 July, when she intends to draw up a strategy for crisis communication, do you know what the answer was? After the end of the current pandemic. Yes, you can hear correctly - after the pandemic. And I'm asking, is this in line with the motto to run the state as a company? Every larger company has such a strategy and its development is for a team of experienced people to work for a week at most. Now, through an open letter, the Ministry has called for a simple step, and we want the measure to be announced by a communicative competent person, a predetermined and regular term, nothing complicated. And there's no need to complicate it. [[14.50 hours]] Finally, let me thank you for publicly having the test strategy commented, which my colleagues and I have used and sent you the comments. According to your colleagues, Minister, these were very good comments and will mostly be accepted. We're glad we could help you work out your testing strategy. I would now specifically focus on the wording of the resolution, and during the debate I would like to go over the motion for a resolution with other club presidents or other club representatives, possibly adjusting some parameters, deadlines and the like, so that we can find common ground. In proposal A, there is an introductory resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies expresses thanks to all doctors, nurses, other non-medical health professionals, medical professionals, social services workers and all other organisations and people involved in solving the current crisis situation associated with the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic and in ensuring care for the population. Part B concerns the control of the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 1162 of 4 June 2020 on the evaluation of the course of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies notes that: 1. Since 15 May 2020, the Central Epidemiology Commission has not sat down, as a result of which the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was not fulfilled, according to which the negotiations and other activities of the Central Epidemiology Commission were to be conducted on a regular basis, and therefore repeatedly asks the Government to carry out the activities of the Central Epidemiology Commission on a regular basis; 2. the Government of the Czech Republic has not submitted information to the Chamber of Deputies through the Prime Minister within three months on the chosen solutions and preparations for the possible arrival of the next wave of the coronavirus, as a result of which the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was not fulfilled, according to which the Prime Minister was to submit information to the Chamber of Deputies no later than 4 September 2020, and therefore repeatedly asks the Government to submit information to it immediately on the selected solutions and preparations for the possible arrival - now rather the actual arrival - of the other waves of the coronavirus pandemic in the Czech Republic; 3. the Government has partly complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to present a traffic light of pandemic alert levels, while clear and predictable steps relating to individual levels are still not presented; 4. the Government has not complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to provide information to the public at regular and predetermined intervals, intelligible and factual terms, in adequate quantities and systemic terms for all the public groups concerned, and therefore asks the Government to develop and implement a strategy for crisis communication without delay so that information on emergency measures is presented by a communicative competent person on a regular and predetermined date, which will contribute to better awareness of the population and thus to more consistent compliance with the measures against the spread of COVID-19 disease; 5. The Ministry of Health has not responded to the comments made by Members to the Committee on Health within a legal period of 30 days, thereby failing to comply with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to provide information to Members under applicable laws and in defined deadlines, and therefore the Chamber of Deputies repeatedly calls for compliance with the legal obligations of the Government, both aware of the workload and the complexity of the acute agenda; 6. the Government has published a draft of the National Cancer Testing Strategy COVID-19, which has provided the public with comments, which has partly fulfilled the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to present to the Chamber of Deputies a testing strategy in the event of the second wave of the Coronavirus, but has not yet been finalised by the agreed date until 30 June 2020, and therefore asks the Government to ensure without delay the finalisation of the National Disease Testing Strategy Covid-19; 7. the Government has introduced to the public a new application of eRousek 2.0 and has announced increased efforts to spread it among the population, thereby partially fulfilling the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to complete the concept of smart quarantine and presentation to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 June 2020; 8. the Government has established a portal nadalku.msmt.cz, which implements the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the processing and publication of a comprehensive support plan for distance teaching in schools; 9. the Government has prepared and published a manual for the operation of schools and school facilities in the school year 2020 to 2021 in relation to COVID-19, which has implemented the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to prepare and publish plans for the scenario of how schools will operate in the event of possible further epidemiological threat; 10. the government has not prepared a strategy to support e-books in public libraries, as a result of which the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was not fulfilled to prepare an e-books support strategy in public libraries taking into account the new situation, and therefore repeatedly asks the government to prepare an e-books support strategy in public libraries. In the recapitulation, there are two completed, three partially completed, five unfulfilled and one still before the deadline. Part C of the resolution concerns other measures to prevent the second wave of the spread of Coronavirus in the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to 1. ensure a sufficient number of backup collection points for call centres, hygienists and technicians to prepare the Czech Republic for a growing trend in COVID-19 infection; 2. endeavoured to increase the number of tests for COVID-19 disease so that the proportion of positive tests in accordance with the World Health Organisation Recommendation of 30. 3. has not exceeded 5 per cent in the long term - the current 12 per cent indicates insufficient testing capacity; 3. publish on the Ministry of Health's website up-to-date information on current and planned test capacity and waiting time of all sampling points in order to optimise and shorten the collection time; 4. inform the Chamber of Deputies of a qualified estimate of the maximum daily test capacity in different scenarios of further development of the spread of the disease; 5. provide statistical information to the public on a weekly basis on the following data relating to disease COVID-19: (a) the period between the determination of the reason for the quarantine order for the tracing of the infected person and the date on which the person was contacted at risk in quarantine with the infected person; (b) the period between the determination of the reason for the quarantine regulation and the conclusive information of the person to be ordered by the quarantiner; (c) the time between the evident information of the person to be ordered and the conduct of the test; (d) the time between carrying out the test of that person and informing him of the test result; 6. has immediately activated the Central Crisis Staff to effectively address the crisis situation related to the increase in the number of COVID-19 diseases infected. 7. inform the Chamber of Deputies of the grounds and professional reasons on the basis of which the rules for quarantine regulations have been amended in contact with persons protected by masks or mouthpieces°, and of the impact of this change on the level of risk and safety of the population, in particular for the elderly, for whom COVID-19 is more risky; 8. develop and implement the sampling site methodology to eliminate as far as possible the possibility of infection, both for tested persons and for the personnel of sampling centres; This methodology shall include the use of information and communication technologies in such a way that it is not necessary to obtain on-site contact information from each tested person, allow online payment and unification of the sampling pages using a single registration form; 9. ensured the implementation of another prevalence study of collective immunity to COVID-19 disease - the last one was in May - and the provision of high quality data outputs allowing further analysis for at least a wide professional public. So much for the motion for a resolution that we propose that the Chamber of Deputies respond to current developments and increasing trends in the number of infected. I am very much looking forward to a substantive debate on this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u3	Thank you. Now, before the debate is opened, I have several applications. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Home Affairs Hamáček will be prepared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the introduction to President Michálek and for the conclusion that he is looking forward to a substantive debate. So I hope that this will be the case, because I really think that it is necessary to look at this whole problem with medical prism and not political. I feel that the problem has been overly politicized, and that doesn't do him any good. [[15.00 hours]] I'm sure the situation, if we're talking about the current epidemiological situation, isn't good. That's an indisputable fact, and there's no need to hide it. The reasons why we are facing the current increases in the number of infected, i.e. positively tested of course, will vary. I don't want to go into them here or talk about history and the atmosphere that was in the spring, which was subsequently in May and June, as well as the opposition and the like, appeal to promote freedom and drapes as a symbol of non-freedom and muzzle against democracy and so on. We have also heard all this at various demonstrations and from the mouth of some politicians. We can remember when the drape was also required by law in the Chamber of Deputies, how many Members have flagrantly refused to comply with this measure with the fact that laws do not apply to them, because they are Members. But I don't really want to get into that history here. I think we really need to look at the current situation, but especially the following developments. I cannot agree with what Mr Michálek said here, that we would not do anything, that we would actually look into the wall and wait for what to come. On the contrary, we have been preparing very much for the current situation all summer, actually from the beginning of summer. At the beginning of the summer, the government approved the whole concept of a new clever quarantine, including eRousek 2.0, including an increase in the capacity of sanitary stations by 134 places, which we immediately started filling, and really strengthened the capacity of individual sanitary stations from about 1 July. Yes, we may have expected the more massive increases to come in really early in the season of respiratory diseases associated with autumn. That the virus - and, of course, the debates that were going on, how the virus would behave in the summer, how it would have the strength, how it would spread - were very varied across the professional public, and those opinions were not the same. There were opinions that the virus would disappear, disappear, weaken and so on. But we were preparing for the potential second wave. Even if we can call it that, there's a question. Maybe it's just, let's say, a certain strangled first wave that continues was, let's say, moderated by these anti-epidemiological measures, and now it continues. Because the virus never actually disappeared in the Czech Republic. It's not like we have a period here where there are zero cases. But that's true in other countries. And if we really look at the situation elsewhere in Europe and look at the ECDC data, we see that the increases are taking place in virtually every country. Yeah, somewhere, the increases are bigger, somewhere, they're smaller. But the trend, if we look at Austria, if we look at Slovak colleagues and so on, the trend is clear. France, Britain now and so on. So it's not - and let's not play here in this political debate that here in the Czech Republic we are some island, that the virus is spreading here, that it doesn't spread anywhere else, it doesn't really have any problems anywhere else, and the government has failed and so on. I don't think that's an entirely objective assessment of the situation. Yes, this disease is spreading, or the number of positives, more pronounced. But it is not that in other countries these increases are not after that time, let's say, those anti-epidemiological measures that have also been applied in other countries. And we'll see, of course, how it's going to turn out in the coming months. Let us look at Austria, where there have also been up to a thousand increases per day in the smaller population, and so on. So let's really look at this in an objective way. And the fact that, of course, measures were taken to unwind, that there was an effort to really make the Czech Republic, like in other countries that went the same way, go back to some normal way to make the economy work, so that the measures were released, that is true. If it was supposed to release so much, it is, of course, an evaluation under any current condition. But, as I say, the unwinding of the measures took place virtually everywhere, and, of course, they are now facing a larger or smaller increase in numbers. Even with us, the number of positives is definitely very significant. The fact is that we have - and I think this is the good news - actually prepared also in terms of laboratory capacity and sampling points. You know, in the spring, when the so-called first wave, as we're going to call it, actually, we had tests about eight thousand a day, tops. We're currently on the average of 15,000 tests a day, and on Friday, I think it was the largest number, almost 19,000 tests. And we expect that these numbers here will also be the rule in the following periods. We currently have a laboratory capacity of 20,700 tests a day. This is the capacity of laboratories in the Czech Republic, with the fact that the national testing strategy, which Mr Michálek here mentioned, totals 25 thousand tests per day. So you can see that we've actually come close to the goal that we've established today is actually over 20,000 tests a day. And we're still increasing the capacity to target 25,000 tests a day, still increasing the capacity of instrumentation within individual hospitals. So we are actually doing this clearly and we have been preparing for this and it is clear that the actual test capacity has increased significantly against the actual state that was here in the spring, and it cannot be completely compared. And I know that this was also one of the things that was criticized by the opposition in the spring. So I hope that this will also be appreciated, because the number of tests actually increased significantly. Likewise, the number of sampling points, where we are currently somewhere around 17,000 times a day within those stationary sampling points. Then, of course, there are intramural samples within the hospital, in the collection of patients in hospitals. But if we're just talking about the stationary sampling points, it's about 17,000 samples a day that we're able to take today. Plus, of course, mobile sampling teams, military teams that work within mobile sampling teams, etc. So if we add all of this up, we're moving around 20,000 times again in the maximum number. Even on the data, if we look at the data of the number of sampling points, it's 1. 4. there were 60 sampling points, today we have 123 sampling points within the system and we are still increasing the sampling points, we are still increasing the capacity, we are responding to the current situation. So is Prague. Yes, somewhere the capacity may be filled, but it is about the fact that we actually have places in Prague where the capacity is not fully filled and where it is filled. And we're trying to inform the public about this, we've set up an information line 1221 to lighten the sanitation service. The line works very well. It is no longer true that it is charged. There was an agreement with all operators that this line was free of charge. So the line can be used by citizens, and it actually works as an information line that they can use. So even this way we try to inform the public as much as possible and lighten up those heavily burdened sanitation stations, where people called for some general information of this type. So these are the real data to have a really really really good time about what this system looks like right now. Of course, we're still increasing the capacity, as I say. It's not that we're content with this number, but the objective increase that we've secured in the past few weeks and months is indisputable here. We're increasing the tracking capacity as well. As I was saying, over the course of the summer, the recruitment of new people in the sanitary service took place. Currently we are still training new callers, trackers within the system. Today is the day of training at the 3rd Medical School, tomorrow as well. So we are actually responding again to the needs of the system. [[15.10 hours]] It's a smart quarantine. It is not true that it does not work because the system actually works within a single system, which is very advantageous. It's something we couldn't actually work with at the beginning of the crisis. Today, we are also able to help those health care stations that are in trouble within individual district health stations. In this way, for example, from Zlín, from the Zlín sanitary station helped colleagues in Prague, from Ústícké and so on. So, thanks to the fact that we are in the data sharing system between individual regional sanitation stations, we are able to do this and the system is built this way. Yeah, maybe he's not quite perfect yet. We need to realize that we're actually doing an electronization of health care live, as I called it somewhere. And it's a fact. What we've managed to do over the past few months, I dare say, would have been standardized and done in standard government for several years. The connection of the sanitation stations. Linking data between sampling points, county health stations, laboratories. Creating an electronic request. So really, if the electronic request is written out, we're actually able to trace the entire process of sampling the test and the result and communicate the information via SMS and so on. As of tomorrow, it is possible to communicate both SMS messages and positive results so that one gets this information as soon as possible before contacting the health department itself. We're going and we're working on so-called self-porting, which is not a bad thing, and it's certainly not a confession that the system is failing, and so on, what I see somewhere in the media. On the contrary, it is an efficiency of the system, because if you really know what contacts you've encountered, that they're his family members, they're some people from work and the like, then you can automatically fill this out under the form that will be sent to him. And the sanitation station will then contact these contacts directly and do not deal with this through a positive call, which of course extends the process. So we're really trying to speed up these processes all the time. And that's what we're going to expect to accelerate quite distinctly. And the fact that the person actually gets the message that he's positive, immediately from the lab, as well as the lesson that he's about to be isolated, and that he's supposed to be waiting for contact from the relevant county health station. So we're definitely still working on speeding up the system. And that's all part of the smart quarantine. There's been some kind of notion here that a smart quarantine is an eRouse. That's total nonsense. eRoad is only an additional tool. Yes, it's important. It is an important tool for informing the positive contacts at a time when the contacts do not know that they have encountered such a positive one because, for example, it took place somewhere in urban public transport and so on. The eRouse 2.0 is already created. I would have responded to Mr. Michálek. It is currently being approved by two main players - Google and Apple. Unfortunately, this approval is taking some time. We can't control that. This is how it works in other countries. But it should be approved very soon. And the new version of eRouška will work on all phones, it will not drain the battery and so on, as President Michálek said. But as I say, eRouse 2.0 is just an additional tool. What we've managed to create, and what's a smart quarantine, are all the other tools. Sharing data that actually works in real time. Today we are able to monitor the capacity of sampling points, the capacity of laboratories. We're able to say, if there's a lab filled up somewhere, where we're going to point the samples and so on. This is something that we really did not dream about at any time in March and April. So the work that's done on the smart quarantine system is huge. And when someone says that a smart quarantine doesn't work and so on, I don't think they can know anything about it, they don't know exactly what a smart quarantine is, they've never seen the system at all, but media is a very grateful topic to say: smart quarantine doesn't work. I'd be interested to know if I asked those people who are really smart quarantine to describe it, I dare say they wouldn't say anything. So what really succeeded in creating in a few months is a respectable job, and it is more to be thanked for that, not to dehonest it and criticize it in the media. So as much as that system as the capacity, how we use it, how we increase it. And, of course, we're still working on further improvement. The fact that this situation is difficult because the number of cases, especially in the last 14 days, has increased quite significantly is certainly not something I will be covering up. Even for sanitary stations it is a very difficult time. We need to realise that they are actually working at this pace practically from 1 March, so of course it is difficult for all sanitary services. Perhaps it is a pity that previous governments, such as the Civic Democratic Party in 2008, have reduced the number of workers in sanitary stations by 50 per cent, since previously 4,000 people have worked in sanitary services. After the twist on Mr. Šnajdr's side and his company. The number of workers in sanitary service has decreased by 2 000 to about 2 000 people today. So this is also a legacy of the past, where the sanitation service was probably not the priority and decided to reduce the number of hygienists by 50 percent. Maybe if the previous Garniturs hadn't made that decision, the situation would have been different today. Of course, getting the experts back into the sanitary service, as Mr Michálek said, is true, but it is not a question of money. It's a matter of education for those people, having those experts at their disposal. That's not a matter you'll be dealing with in a few months. And I think that everyone who thinks about it a little bit has to know that it's simply a long-term neglect and unfortunately some legacy from the past that we can't completely solve in a matter of months to get those experts, epidemiologists into the system. But we are doing our best in cooperation with medical schools, medical faculties and so on. So much for the current situation. Otherwise, as far as the epidemiological situation is concerned, it is probably not necessary to describe the increases. We've got eyes on them. And we must expect them to continue in the following period. I don't think that's necessary and there's no need to cover it up. Inevitably, the numbers in the next few days will be very similar to the current increases. You know we've published the current reproduction numbers of 1.59. And with this, of course, we have to calculate. Based on this, we are doing some modeling of the evolution of the epidemic, although we are promising a certain reduction, or let's say at least stabilise the situation by introducing precisely antiepidemic measures, which were introduced especially last week, even before, but last week on Thursday, a general obligation to wear drapes in indoor spaces, a drape as a basic prevention of the spread of drips. So, in this regard, we expect this measure, if everyone actually follows it properly and will not be questioned in any way, which unfortunately we are facing and facing various misinformations. I have a bit of a feeling that we are already at the level of misinformation about vaccination, when I read some of the comments unfortunately also some rather reputable experts on the issue of wearing drapes. And we also have to fight this to a certain extent that disinformation is spread through social networks. But a drape really clearly based on all scientific studies is a tool for prevention. It's to prevent drip spread. And I ask all citizens to really respect this prevention because it is only in this way that we are able to reduce the reproductive number that we are seeing now, and to stabilise the situation by wearing the drapes, keeping the spacing and hygiene of our hands, especially by using disinfectants. These are the basic three attributes - the rule of three Rs - drapes, hands, spacing. And I ask you all to really accept this as a basic measure that we must all follow. And it is really up to each of us to be able to do something about the increase. Because, of course, smart quarantine can work, tracking can work, but this is already the solution to the consequences. This, let's say, is already a kind of repressive instrument. But as far as prevention is concerned, today we have no other prevention than the drape, the spacing and the hygiene of the hands until, of course, there is a vaccine, which we are also working on, and we participate in all negotiations with potential manufacturers and suppliers. However, we must expect that the vaccine, as we see it today, will be available first in the course of next year. So there will certainly be no other prevention in the coming months except the one I was talking about. [[15.20 hours]] It is clear that we will probably have to take other measures that we are currently planning. The measures should be effective from Friday, we will communicate more closely with them, and they concern internal mass actions intended for standing. It's really something that's really bothering us, because it's actually an action where there's a large number of people on the inside, so this is something that we want to regulate. These will be internal mass events, which are therefore intended mainly for standing, where each participant does not have a designated seating position. These are actions that should be regulated and it will no longer be possible to sell standing tickets for these mass events. He'll always have to be a specific place to sit. In this respect, we come from an Austrian model that goes in a similar way, and from a certain application practice, or the experience of hygienists, that these events in different clubs and the like are the source of the spread of the disease. If we look at the data we see, today the situation has changed from spring to spring because most newly diagnosed patients, or positively tested, are now between 20 and 29 years old when we really look at the percentage distribution within the age structure. And these, of course, are people who are infected at similar events, and for them, of course, the disease itself is not fundamentally dangerous, but can be a source of further spread of the disease, possibly even to risk groups. So this is something that we want to address precisely by limiting these actions, which we would like to announce today. I want to present this place now. We were supposed to have a press conference today, but unfortunately, this meeting has entered, so at least this way I would like to inform you and we will certainly publish more details soon. These are the anti-epidemiological measures that, hopefully, and we believe, will have the effect of reducing the reproductive number so that we can either stabilize the situation within the current parameters or thus improve it. What is very important to us and I consider this to be the greatest role of the Ministry of Health right now is the question of preparing acute bed care for a potential increase in the number of positive patients with COVID-19 disease. I think that this is our main role as the Ministry of Health, so that we are currently preparing a system, or we have been working on it for some time, of course, to make it work without any problems. That's why all hospitals are currently connected to the National Intensive Care Dispatch, it's also an accomplishment, let's say, of the entire system that we've created, that's something that wasn't common in the past, when hospitals report on-line numbers of patients in a light, medium, heavy state, numbers of patients requiring artificial pulmonary ventilation, requiring extracorporeal circulation and, of course, the number of beds that are free, where there are free capacities, the number of beds with oxygenotherapy and so on. These are simply the basic parameters that we need to monitor within the hospital network. National Intensive Care Dispatch is led by the head of professional society anesthesiology and intensive medicine profesor. Černý. Each region has its intensive care coordinator, who decides in the event of a problem and decides where the patient will be placed, so that there are no problems within the care organisation. Similarly, we have connections, or they are currently connected, it is more particularly on them now, medical rescue services, which are under individual regions, so that even the medical rescue service clearly knows where they are, and if COVID has a positive patient, to know where it can go. We really consider this to be absolutely essential and this system must work. We have the appropriate instructions for this, but, of course, all entities that are not directly controlled by the Ministry of Health must be involved in this, because you know that hospitals are directly controlled below us, but the medical emergency services and other hospitals are under the regions that I have approached to maximum cooperation so that we really have an online overview of the capacities and we know how the situation is developing. We currently know that we have over 300 percent of hospitalized patients, sorry, over 300 hospitalized patients. Fortunately, the number increases over time, although it does not increase significantly the number of patients who require intensive care. The capacity here is actually quite sufficient at the moment. Modelling shows that we are actually able to deal with a number of times the number of patients. Of course, no one wants this, but I am merely talking about the fact that our network of hospital care in this regard is robust and ready for a possible increase in the number of patients, and of course we are watching the situation very closely, because I consider it absolutely essential. There is no absolute problem with the number of infected who are symptomsless or have a mild course, which is the vast majority of such cases. But of course, the primary problem is those patients who require hospitalized care. For your information, currently based on the clinical indicators available to us, more than 75 percent of patients are symptomsless. And as for the proportion of hospitalized people, we're moving to less than 4 percent. With regard to the proportion of patients with severe disease progression, this is less than 1%. With regard to the proportion of deceased patients, less than 0,4 percent. These are the basic numbers according to the current data that we have at our disposal, which we will definitely publish, and we are publishing them. They are also available within the portal, which I'm sure you all know where the data is published. So much for basic information on the development of the situation. Believe me, we certainly don't underestimate the situation. On the other hand, there's no point in creating a priori disaster scenario and haunting society. I think it is necessary to treat this very responsibly, but rationally, and do what needs to be done. I don't think it's necessary to scare a priori, but, as I'm saying, it's not as bad a situation as it can be, let's say, a worse scenario. But I hope that if we really all follow what we have, we will follow the basic preventive measures, so that the number of infected will stabilize and we will manage to flatten the so-called epidemiology curve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u5	Thank you, Minister. Just a brief recap. We are in open point 491 after the plaintiff's introductory words have been delivered and the word has priority rights. It is not possible to allow factual observations. You must wait for at least one speaker to speak in the debate. Please, with priority rights, Minister Hamáček, Vice-President Petr Fiala will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u6	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, allow me also a few words on the current subject. Perhaps at the outset, because I am performing here in a double role, that is to say the Minister of the Interior, but also the Chair of Social Democracy, explained because we were asked why social democracy did not support this point yesterday and today it did. The reason is simple. Yesterday, time pushed us a great deal in the key priority, that is, to start the first reading of the law that will allow the elderly to pay an extraordinary contribution. Since some political parties have refused to agree with the so-called '90s', we need to go through the whole legislative process, and this was the key priority of social democracy. That's all right, thank you for that. And today, of course, we are ready to debate the current situation in terms of the development of the COVID-19 epidemic. [[15.30 hours]] It's probably fair for me to say that the situation isn't good. If we look at how cases in the Czech Republic grow on a daily basis, the increase is rapid and it can be said that in the last week or in the last days, it has the character of beginning exponential curves. The increase last night was some 1,600 cases. I just want to point out that if the inter-day increase had not increased further, i.e. If it stayed at 1,600 a day, at the end of the month, we're talking about 30 thousand patients, which would mean a de facto doubling of the number of patients to date, and that's only assuming that the increase wasn't exponential. I would rather not talk about exponential figures, but you are all able to calculate what it would mean for the Czech Republic and what it would mean for our system. Therefore, I want to make it clear that I support - I believe we all support - the measures taken by the Ministry of Health that pulled the emergency brake and put back into play probably the only effective means against mass spread, and these are so-called. drapes. I know everyone can have an opinion on drapes, but what's obvious is that drapes help and that no one has ever thought of anything more effective or better. And I don't want to go back to the past, because everything that's behind us is behind us, and we need to look ahead and try to figure out how to achieve exactly what the Minister of Health has been talking about, i.e. Flatten the growth and don't go after the exponential. But after all, allow me to evaluate myself here and look for the guilty - where are the warlords against the masks? Where are the different experts who said the drapes were useless, that it was a muzzle, that we should take it off? I heard them very loudly in that May and June and July. They're quiet now. And I feel that, of course, we are all responsible for our actions, and that those who have caused hysteria here should also be held accountable, and to some extent they have promoted immediate unringing and organized 500-metre tables on the Charles Bridge. We all knew that the virus could come back. Some were more optimistic, some were less optimistic. But the risk was just there. The first numbers began to appear sometime in the middle, or in the second half of July. At the press conference, I asked the citizens not to wait for the Minister of Health to ask them to wear the drape or order them to do so. I wore it myself honestly to the shops - unfortunately, I was almost the only one. But all right, now I think we're done, and like I said, let's look ahead. And that's not trying to make excuses or blame someone else. It is clear that the final responsibility is borne by the decision-maker. That means the government has decided on all these measures, both their adoption and their dislodgement. And trying to take my performance is not our responsibility, but just point out that if someone is making themselves a celebrity and is getting out into public space with various brilliant ideas, then he should also be prepared for what his brilliant ideas will do. Our goal at this stage is to try again to convince our citizens that the disease is not funny, that it is not the flu and that it can have serious consequences. The increases are really very fast, and I'm afraid that if we can't flatten the curve, we can really get to Italy in the spring. Or, more recently, to Israel, which was at that time as well as the Czech Republic. He was a big premier, and today the Izraelec have a massive lockdown, and three weeks they can't leave home more than 500 meters away. Nobody wants that. And it was also very fast. So from my point of view, we have to try to regain the trust of our citizens and convince them once again that these measures aren't fake, but it's the only thing that works so far. Nobody has a vaccine. Nobody wants to stop the economy. We don't want to close schools because the burden on families was already big here in the spring, so we just have to find some modus vivendi with the virus that's just in the company. And that's where the government is trying to steer and where it's trying to steer. We've been accused of sleeping here this summer. I can speak for the Home Office at this stage. We didn't sleep much there. I want to make it clear that, at least in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, we have carefully prepared ourselves. That means we've managed the summer debate on securing elections in case people are quarantined. Looks like we could use the bill amendment, and I want to thank everyone who's been involved again. Police, firefighters are already working at least in the A and B police shifts to avoid contamination of the security corps so that they can carry out their duties. We have a complete amendment to the Security Act of the Czech Republic and an amendment to the Crisis Act, which will go to the Interreort on Monday, so that is the next task that we have completed. And, of course, we are ready to carry out the work that is expected of us. Of course, it has to be said, and I am not hiding it, that in the spring months - and now I speak for the Ministry of the Interior, which is the central body of crisis management - we have been successful when the Central Crisis Staff worked, when information was exchanged, and when on that broad platform we could clarify a lot of things to each other and we didn't have to look at each other in a difficult way. I'm sure it's something that's still going to be denied in the debate. I think that even the authorities and representatives of cities and municipalities accepted this standard crisis management mechanism and appreciated it. However, this is, of course, a debate that awaits us within the government. In conclusion, I just want to make it clear that, from my point of view, the Central Crisis Staff is not an emergency. We're ready to operate in normal condition, in quotation marks, and no one's going into emergency condition, because even the numbers don't match it yet. But I believe that, in general, if we have some tried mechanisms, we should use them and we should not invent something new and untested. Finally, I want to make it clear that this is going to be a tough test from my point of view, because the numbers aren't looking pretty anymore. And frankly, I don't see why, at least in the next 14 days, the figures should be significantly improved before they take cover measures. So that's what we need to prepare for. And once again, we have to explain to our people that the situation is complicated, that combined with some other respiratory diseases, the fall course can simply be more complicated. A huge share of responsibility will be at regional councils, respectively. regional authorities and government officials, because what is crucial now from my point of view is to prepare enough penzion beds in the field, so that if after those - and logically so must be - after the increases of the patients with some slippage come the increases of hospitalized and the system simply must be prepared for it. In addition to beds in faculty hospitals, beds must also be prepared in regional and other hospitals. And what is the second thing that I think is absolutely crucial is that, at least with the same success as in the spring, we prevent the massive penetration of the virus into the welfare institutions or the elderly' homes. The minister here quoted statistics on who is the most infected. Yes, they're the ones who walk around bars drinking from one bucket. And, of course, they're more resilient. But from my point of view, if, in some massive way, the disease were to get back to the places where the seniors are concentrated, that's the thing that would make the situation very difficult. And the numbers that were falling here, about illness, mortality, from my point of view, would very quickly return to spring values. So for me, no one wants to scare anyone, on the other hand, our duty is not to paint anything pink and tell people the way it is. And I want to say for myself that, of course, we are all prepared to face this challenge at the best of our knowledge and consciences. And, of course, I believe that we will manage this autumn challenge together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u7	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Petr Fiala. President Pekarová Adamová will be ready. It is still priority rights before the debate is opened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I have taken note of the Minister of Health's speech and I think that this speech can be summarised in the following way. The situation is bad, but not too bad. It's the opposition's fault. It is just as bad in other countries, and that is why everyone is closing our borders. Hygiene's late, but it's the 2008 government's fault. It's gonna get worse, but that's okay, 'cause it's actually pretty good now, but it's gonna get worse, so let's get ready for that. That's what the Minister of Health told us. I will now not argue with what has been said here, nor with the words of the Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček. Just, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, with a little good taste, don't throw it at the opposition. Who declared that there would be no horizontal measures? That we're the best in Europe or the world? It was your government. You promised the citizens that there would be no big measures. Who first opposed the Ministry of Health's decision on clothing, so it had to be revised? It's a few weeks back. It was Prime Minister Babiš who was shocked by what the Ministry of Health prepared. So please, don't throw those things at the opposition, but pay attention to your own responsibilities and the confusion you're causing. But I don't want to go into some big controversy of this type right now. I will try to summarize the situation in a matter of fact and tell you how we see the way out of it. Let me start by reading one tweet from yesterday. I'll read it the way it was published yesterday. Quote. "Just a week ago on the test, COVID-19 symptoms, results within 48 hours, so far I have no information, already 168 hours, voluntarily at home office in quarantine. I'm calling 1221 today. The system sees me, the result doesn't. I'm supposed to call somewhere else. Five phone numbers, they don't take it anywhere." End of quote. The author of this tweet isn't some anonymous identity. He's a specific person, he's got a name, he's got a sampling point where he was on the test. You can look, but that particular name and that particular sampling point, it's not important. Such experiences, in quotation marks, are completely full of internet. And who doesn't believe that these things work like that, let them play the Vinohradská 12 podcast, where people's experiences, experiences that sound like Franz Kafka's novel. I am absolutely convinced that the doctors who are testing, the health professionals who are tracking, the vast majority of these people are doing what they can. But at the same time, the fact that they can't and that things aren't working isn't their fault. And I'll remind you of a few facts. Real number one. On 1 May, the government launched a system called smart quarantines, a system that should have led to capture, testing, isolation of people potentially infected with COVID-19 disease based on past contacts with the infected. And the goal of a clever quarantine was to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease as quickly as possible. Real number two. The absolute prerequisite for the operation of so-called smart quarantines were and are sufficient testing and tracing capacity. Real number three. Daily additions in our country are 1,600 or more cases these days. Daily testing is just over 500 tests per 100,000 inhabitants. In neighboring Germany, they run 1,300 tests per 100,000 inhabitants. And so I could go on. Real number four. With regard to the number of tests per 100,000 inhabitants, we have not only Germany, but together more than 20 European states. But our Minister of Health encourages people not to test themselves so much. Real number five. By the week before last, the government claimed - until the week before last - that the country's tracking capacity was sufficient, they would be strengthened by the military, everything is under control. Last week, the government started talking about self-traveling because it had to admit that they were simply failing to meet the state's capacity. And since then, since then, we haven't heard any relevant plans. Real number six. Based on hard data on the spread of coronavirus, the Czech Republic gradually declared a risky number of countries, including Slovakia, which until recently excluded this possibility. I note that in Slovakia, for example, the daily increase in positive results ranges from 100 to 200 cases at 400 tests per 100,000 inhabitants. Fact number seven. The Czech Republic now has the fastest additions to patients from neighbouring countries. In the European Union, only Spain and France have more cases per capita in 14 days. So many seven facts. I don't want to keep others. I could talk about this thing on the basis of facts and data for a long time. And only these seven facts are, I think, quite sufficient and illustrative for what situation we are in and how the government cannot handle the situation. And I do not share the optimism of the Prime Minister, I do not share the optimism of the Prime Minister, and I consider it a negative situation, and I consider such a downright irresponsible situation. And unfortunately, it's showing up, and it's becoming clear these days that months and months have been wasted here. Unfortunately, what everyone knew might just happen, that it might happen, that is, the second wave - are we ready now? Unfortunately, we're much less prepared for her than we could have been. It's a good thing we're talking about this today, but of course it's too late. But speaking of which today, while this debate is going on, I would expect, and I expect, from the Prime Minister, from the members of the government, that they will finally stop blaming the media, the opposition, the public, and I don't know where, and they will finally listen to us. Every idea, every solution, every interest should be welcomed, and in the cluelessness with which the government is now going, should listen particularly carefully to the opposition that comes with solutions that we would have done long ago, and if the government had not wasted those months, we are in a completely different situation than we are today. For itself, for the Civil Democratic Party, we appeal to the government to launch immediately in this difficult situation a five-point crisis management plan, which we simply called KRIZE. CRISIS according to the first letters of the five measures we propose. First step - K. Finally replace Minister Vojtěch, occupy the resort by a person who will return the authority with a professional solution. Even after hearing today, I think that our request, which we are not saying for the first time, is absolutely appropriate. I consider it essential for the government to send a message to the public that the period of chaos, counter-speaking and painting things will end. Second, step two - R. Reboot the crisis crew and entrust him with proposals for solutions that the government will respect. We need cooperation, cooperation at some formal level, constitutional level, instead of arbitrary decision-making at some government inconspicuous forums. Step three - I. Initiate negotiations with schools, with school directors, with teachers and ensure that primary schools remain open as much as possible and as long as possible. Ensure conditions for teachers so that they can teach with high-quality respirators or with other protective equipment. At the same time, of course, define the most vulnerable groups and equip them with protective equipment. Step Four - Z. Multiply hygiene capacity. This should have been done a long time ago, but to multiply them even now, to make it work as a basic assumption of keeping the number of infected within manageable limits. So let's say how much trace capacity is going to be, specifically, and what it needs to be. Or let's say it doesn't matter, but let's just open up the data and be specific about this thing, because otherwise we won't move on. Step Five - E. Again, we appeal to the economic support of businessmen, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, single mothers and other and other groups that are at risk of the effects of the ongoing and at this time strengthening the coronavirus crisis. [[15.50 hours]] Madam, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I think these five points could be a good basis for the negotiations to move away from the point where the excuses and the cluelessness are over and we have finally begun to act wisely and decisively. Reasonably and definitely in such a way as to deal with this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u9	Thank you. And with another priority right, President Pekarová Adamová, then President Bartošek, I am registering an application with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to see the Prime Minister here today at this meeting, too, and I am sorry that he is not worthy of such a key issue in the key situation we are experiencing here to attend today's meeting. I don't know if the pearl-breed breeding is starting again with Minister Brabc, or if they have a more fundamental program, but I see nothing more fundamental in the Czech Republic today than talking about the situation in the spread of the Coronavirus in our country. I'm sure what the Minister has done here deserves another debate, but with all due respect, it's always important to have that head here, a head that, moreover, has taken under it, right below it, a system of clever quarantine. [[turns to the empty place of the Prime Minister]] Since July, it should be Mr. Babiš, who runs a smart quarantine, it's often a downed thing here, but he hasn't weighed his way today, and he's not worth the billing. And yet he was the one who said in the spring in a heartbreaking speech on TV that he was taking all responsibility. He should be bringing it up today. And not just today, but in the next few weeks. Unfortunately, we're hostages to a chronic liar. And I know that many of you will sew up, some of you are already shaking your head a little bit, so I'm going to show you a few specific things here, because if I were to document everything, we're here until the evening, but a few specific things from the last few times, as the Prime Minister is lying to us all over the public. There will never be flat measures again. What's this? [[It also shows in other points always on paper A4 printed texts, photos, tables.]] What do we all have here? The flat-rate measures are in place. At the same time, the Prime Minister said - and the date is 5. 6. - that they'll never be necessary again. Next. Slovák and Rakušan will not close the border to the Čech, soothing Babiš after a meeting in Vienna. It was September 9th. Today Slovakia has tightened up the measures, we are among risk countries, we complicate the lives of thousands of people, families, pendlers, companies, those who trade with Slovakia - and Slovakia is a very important business partner for us, I hope I do not need to remind you of that. That promise lasted less than five days. Hygiene is considering tracking only serious cases - said Prime Minister Babiš directly. The changes could also affect the respirators, it has been kept, but the next day, not even 24 hours, Babiš tells the media - you spread disinformation. The same information he said the day before, he subsequently called it misinformation. In doing so, he spoke of it himself. Another notoriously famous Hey, guys - nobody died of covid in the Czech Republic. Reality - it may not be fully visible - but the date he spoke of - six dead. Are the cops gonna be helping with the tracking? - No, hygiene is good. Hygiene's handling it. - Again, the Prime Minister's words from 9/11. Another headline - iDNES, so perhaps we cannot talk there about it being a media that is somehow biased towards the Prime Minister. That's where September 14th is: the collapse. Hygiene doesn't run tests and tracking, even if people try to do their own thing. And the last thing I have here from the examples-- and there's really a lot more of them: Stop worrying, nobody tests as much as we do. Those are Mr. Babiš's words from yesterday. Reality, facts - a table that clearly shows that we are one of the worst of the population in this conversion. [[shows again]] Minister, you've been talking about these test capacities, let's try to catch up, please, with Germany. [[to Minister Vojtěch]] This is just a few specific things as you manage this crisis. It's concrete evidence of how incompetent we have a prime minister, a politician, head of this state, how incompetent the manager is. Why all this? Why do you put your head in the sand or why you lie, paint things pink? Why isn't he here now? Because we have an election in three weeks. Let's face it. If it hadn't been for three weeks of election, then maybe many things would have been completely different. And we have been calling on you for a few days since last week not to paint things pink, but to act now and act now. Specific proposals for solutions. And I call on us not to allow the Israeli scenario, where the quarantine is once again implemented across the board, where people are clearly experiencing major economic impacts. And I'm afraid that if we let it go -- and the way you manage it today -- we have a lot going for it -- it could be a reality for us, too. We introduced our plan, the eight proposals, a week ago. It contains some things that are already happening. And I want to thank you for that, so it doesn't look like we're just criticizing. So, of course, we realize that some are happening. But it's desperately low. Desperately little to get the situation under control. And the fact that she got out of control, that's the reality, that's what you have to admit. One of those proposals that is already happening is to protect risk groups. We said that instead of the $5,000, the pre-election populist gift, the risk groups would really protect the seniors and others who are the risk group, they would get high-quality respirators and drapes from the state. I know it's happening, but it's not enough. And those stories that are now beginning to appear not only on social networks, how well packed and so on, they kind of encourage us to say: we tried, but it turned out as usual. At least add that quality in this one. The quarantine must not limit the entire company. Even this step is happening. And we're happy that we're dealing with how to shorten the quarantine, if that's what the situation allows. But those are the only two points of the eight that are actually going somewhere. Hygiene stations, alpha and omega of the entire solution, should have been reinforced long ago. We bought a lot of time. We have a half-billion-dollar deficit here. I don't know how we're gonna handle this in the next few years, but okay, now we're dealing with a medical situation, not an economic situation. But the expensive time bought was simply wasted and wasted. Hygiene stations reinforced 142 places. Mr. Minister, on average, 10 people per county, one health station. That's pathetic little! Well, we know that if we have these numbers of infected people, we don't have to be mathematicians to figure out how long the number of people, those existing infected people, their contacts, have been haunting each other. Why hasn't there already been a call center competition for county sanitation stations? Why is this only being dealt with today when citizens' initiatives offering their assistance are being heard? That should have worked a long time ago! Where did you sleep? It was supposed to be settled over the summer, and we wouldn't have to talk about it here anytime in the fall. So strengthening the sanitation stations must be real. I do not think it is necessary that we now have high qualifications for those individual people who will work on these things. It's just a crisis situation, and it should help any person who can. I don't think it's really necessary for people from medicine, health care, etc. to be educated after training. It is necessary if the smart quarantine is to be really smart so that we can have the information quickly, continue to use it, and hygiene can work according to them. [[16.00 hours]] eRouse, Roušky promotion. I think the pathetic number of people who have this app just makes it impossible for this tool to work. Make a proper promotion to it, otherwise people don't install it. Another one of our demands. Patients and physicians must have clear instructions and rapid tests within minutes. How are we prepared for a situation where, at the same time, we will have a coronavirus and a common cold, flu, another respiratory disease? What instructions do all pediatricians and circuit doctors have, how to proceed, who to send for the test and who not? What does it look like at the moment with those very rapid tests that are able to evaluate the disease within a few tens of minutes? Another one of our designs. High-quality drapes are affordable. That's what we've been saying since spring. It is necessary to support Czech producers, Czech companies, which are sufficient and have quality - not only therefore, but also - antivirus drapes nanovrstou. Let us know more about these capacities. I think he deserves it extraordinarily. The state must also do its utmost to inoculate the population as soon as the vaccine is available, and we must also be prepared legislatively for this. I wonder if the Ministry is already taking the necessary steps in this and whether legislation is preparing for this situation so that we have the opportunity here to take very quickly the vaccine, which, hopefully, will be available. Testing. If testing, of course, for everyone. It's not like we're gonna ask people not to go into vaccinations. Yes, in Prague to order vaccinations, I tried it myself, how long is the time... [[Attention from the diaper.]] Sorry, sorry, thank you, colleague. I was wrong. I mean, testing all the time. Well, it takes a lot of days to test. And I completely understand that the current capacities are overloaded, but again, this should have been ensured long ago so that they are sufficient and that if a positive test is paid, it will be reimbursed back from health insurance. I think that the availability of testing is in order to cope with this epidemic. Finally, without the data and the money to be put into this, the research of the covid cannot be successful and is at an impasse. I appreciate that we are also involved in international efforts, but in this regard, we call again for the publication of all data. And I believe you have them, but you need to keep them out of your ranks to make them available to both professional and general public. We have concrete proposals. We don't want to play a big deal on this thing, but the numbers, they're already making it about themselves. And I don't think if we hide from it, stick our heads in the sand, or paint things pink, we really don't get good results. That's why I'm asking you to start doing something. Take advantage of the proposals that we are making here from the opposition, one side after another we come up with a very constructive approach, constructive things, and start acting accordingly, because otherwise we can wait for the Israeli scenario here. And I don't want to be a bad prophet, and I really don't want to - until after the election, of course, we all face or we don't, but you do, that's under control - so that we don't have any other options here, because we really can't let that happen anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, good afternoon. Let's keep going. Next, President Bartošek made himself known with priority rights before the opening of the debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the famous French film from the late 1970s bears the title The situation is serious but not desperate. Unfortunately, while the French film is a very good comedy, the epidemiological situation in our country has not been funny in recent weeks, or if it is for someone, it is more ironic laughter. Since the beginning of the pandemic period, the new KDU-ČSL coronavirus held a sober and professional perspective and the process of solving the pandemic, more or less from the beginning offered cooperation and the opportunity to resolve this together. We have brought a number of suggestions and proposals for solutions at the time of the activation of the Central Crisis Staff at its meeting. But the epidemiological development of the last few weeks in our country is so explosive that sitting with your hands in your lap would be extremely irresponsible. KDU-ČSL depends on improving the situation in order to be actively addressed, and although we are an opposition party, we are ready to cooperate with the government to resolve the current incoming second wave, we just need to clarify a number of issues that are of great interest not only to us but to practically the entire public at the moment. And so there is no other way than to ask the government of the Czech Republic, both the premier of Europe, at least the Czech Republic's progress at the time of the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has repeatedly evaluated our position by the Prime Minister and other government politicians, how it is possible that we have become the black sheep of Europe. At least in the first few weeks of fighting new coronavirus, the Czech Republic was definitely one of the successful ones. Unfortunately, the conjecture around the pace and the process of dislodgement of restrictive measures has caused some embarrassment, but in the end, the public's enthusiasm over the renewed opportunities to live more freely, to relax from the limitations that we experienced throughout the spring. That's quite understandable in itself. What is not understandable, however, is the development of the last three to four weeks, when clearly there has been a rapid increase in the number of infected and the government has been acting like everything is perfectly okay all along. At the same time, there is already an obvious risk of explosive spread of the disease, where what we were all afraid of in the spring can happen quite quickly, and why we shut down not only the economy, but also in the modern history of unseen restrictions on citizens' freedom and what we feared, overslaught of the health system. Now we are comforted by the government that most of the infected have a very mild course of disease at the moment. Yes, that is true, thank God for that, but a larger number of infected sooner or later will fall even more on the risk groups of the population, and with that unfortunately very likely will come even more difficult cases. All spring we experienced press conferences by members of the government, government epidemiologists and others as on the running belt. In recent weeks, however, it has been as if some members of the government have vanished. The numbers of the infected grow steeply, the government continues to dance and calm the public that there is really nothing to do. I have long been in favour of the view that pandemics are serious, but it is not appropriate to give in to the impression that all other health risks have disappeared. We really need to focus not only on treating and worrying about all the other sick people, but also on other problems that the current society is experiencing. But that doesn't mean we'll watch with our hands in our laps the additions of the newly infected thousands a day and expect the pandemic to wear off itself. I therefore consider it essential that the members of the government come before the House, before the public, and answer the questions that are now being challenged by more than one citizen of this country. I'll at least say the most important things. One. I ask you to answer who is really responsible at the moment and conducts a strategy to combat SARS-CoV-2 pandemics. Is it the Integrated Central Management Team or the Health Risk Board or the Government as a whole? Why hasn't the Central Epidemiology Commission sat down for several months? When a vote was submitted to the Government on the establishment of a crisis crew, whether it was the point on which it was voted, who proposed it and who voted against the establishment of a crisis staff in connection with this new wave. [[16.10 hours]] Two. In spite of strong recommendations from the opposition here at the House plenary, in committees, but also by the professional public, why did the government not use a more favourable epidemiological situation in preparation for the second wave of pandemics, namely the implementation of the so-called clever quarantine, the setting of the system of tracing the infected, the strengthening of sanitary services, the preparation of a wider network of sampling points and the setting of a clear testing system? In the long term, we are also calling for a fundamental strengthening of test capacities. We repeatedly drew attention to this, e.g. our Member Vít Kaňkovský with associate professor Matějka and others, as well as during the meetings of the Central Crisis Staff during April and May of this year. We also want an answer to that. Three. How does the government now respond to a clearly negative epidemiological development, which is not only a health risk, but also threatens to isolate the Czech Republic from European and non-European states? After all, we are clearly experiencing, in recent days, when, despite all the assurances made by the Prime Minister, Slovakia took this step yesterday as well. And we all know that this is a big blow to the Czech Republic. Four. What steps will the government take to avoid overloading the health system and to avoid further significant threats to the economy of the Czech Republic, what steps will the government take for the next days and weeks? I expect an answer in terms of terms, hard data, personnel strengthening, how many people, where, how the system is adjusted. I could go on, and yet I won't forgive myself for another fifth point. The Czech Republic has since 18. 10th year 2011 pandemic plan. It was updated by 11. 7. 2020. And so I ask, Minister, if we have this pandemic plan and covid has been identified as a pandemic, when a pandemic plan was launched, whether you are acting according to his recommendation, whether you are fulfilling the pandemic plan, you activate the individual components and whether you are implementing the steps described in the pandemic plan, because she is the cook that the government is supposed to follow. It was created as a response to the crisis, the points are described there, and I'm wondering if you've activated the pandemic plan. I dare say that there is no more important issue today that is of interest to the public than measures in the fight against SARS-Covid disease 2. People need to know the facts, and citizens need to be sure that the state is ready for further deterioration in the epidemiological situation. If this is not the case, it is that the Czech Republic has a weak government that is afraid to make important decisions for the protection and safety of the people of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u13	Thank you, and lastly, Prime Minister Kalousek is on the list with priority right at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to listen to colleagues today who are much more competent in this debate, however, when the Minister told us that the government's vital share of responsibility in 2008, as a member of the government, I wanted to respond and ask a few questions and have a proposal, Minister. Yes, the government has indeed reduced the number of sanitary services workers in 2008. Yes, so let's admit it was a system error. I can't tell, but let's admit it was a system error. Well, if it was a systemic error, why hasn't your government fixed that mistake in the last seven years? Not in the last few months. In the past seven years, the rule of social democracy and YES. And even this problem can't be related to the functionality or malfunction of a clever quarantine. Smart quarantine - you said that few who say it's dysfunctional can imagine it. So we who have seen it can imagine it, and we know that its heart is simply an integrated virtual call center that has been built quite quickly and very competently. And the problem, why it works little, is the lack of human capacity that calls and calls the people you tracked. But that doesn't have to be medical graduate hygiene, not even health care workers. Training a person to fill out the required form with a routed person can take an hour? Or two? Definitely no longer. It's just standard routine work. And I want to ask you what maximum number you were aiming at every day when you were designing that clever quarantine. Because it must be some kind of target - I need to scare so many people out every day. I hope my sources were telling me the truth, because my sources told me that even a month ago, as top management, you had a goal of bringing out 1,500 people a day. Well, 1,500 people a day are desperately few, given that we already have over 1,600 infected today. That means, my question tonight is, what's your goal now, how many you have to be able to throw out every day, where's the ceiling, where do you want it? If we have to assume that we will have 4,000 infected daily within a short period of time, then we know that if we have 4,000 infected daily, we need to trace the multiple of this number within 24 hours. One trained person - I repeat again, the average high school kid on the call of those routed you have trained in an hour or two. That means one such person can make intense calls five or six hours a day, then he'll go crazy. So I'd like to hear now, Minister, from the top management of the smart quarantine, what number we want to get to, how many people we're gonna have, where we're gonna take these people, where we're gonna get them, where we can get them, if there's a legislative obstacle. Because if there is a legislative obstacle, I assure you that everyone here - I have no right to speak for the whole opposition, only for the TOP 09, but I am sure that in such a case, everyone will approve the relevant legislative change if it is tabled. And that number is so simple. I need so many people on so many and so many stragglers that I'm aiming at, and I need so many people, and I just need to get these people. I don't think you've been looking for them, and there's the problem. Those people who are supposed to be routed aren't haunted in 24 hours, because you don't have enough people in that integrated call center, so we still have infected people running after 70 hours, no one has, and of course their contacts haven't. And there's the problem. And that's really not the government's fault in 2008, that's a mistake in managing a smart quarantine project. And my big request, Minister, is: start driving it by looking ahead, towards the goal to which you must aim, because that is the only way to manage the projects. You can't just react to what was. You'll always be late, you'll always be behind. So that's my request. Give us this information and tell us how we can help you achieve this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u15	Thank you. And with priority rights, Vice-President Filip has yet to sign up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u16	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. I also believe that this is not a banality, that the CoV 2 pandemic is a serious issue, and not only in the Czech Republic, but all over the world. And I don't want to remind you that the current hit of the Internet is the 2010 Simpson series, where we talk about how well and quickly it is to effectively limit the number of people on the planet. I will not comment on the report by the BND to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany of January 2013, which reports on the experience of how to deal with or not to deal with pandemics. My point is what my colleague Kalousek ended up with. My point is what is the management work of the system for combating pandemics in the Czech Republic. My point is how individual regional sanitary stations operate and how they help - and I agree with it - solve the most affected ones to manage their own territory in which the directors of sanitary stations are to operate. I think that it is not only possible to deal with the consequences that it is necessary to focus on the way in which the preventive work will be dealt with. Now I don't see it that way, the preventive work, how many and how we're going to test people, but I'm convinced that we need to know the variants of the transmission of the disease and effectively prevent it from spreading. That's why I have one question for the Minister of Health. How is it that where we have relatively decent results so far, they are in the green zone, is it not possible for directors to order overtime work to ensure that any outbreak is found and eliminated in time? Why do we even have to deal with the effect that we only allow the overtime work for those directors who are already in big trouble, notabene, when we still have to give help from another region? That's basically the most important thing, because we're going to miss those capacities as we move them, so we're going to miss them where we need them, and it's not possible for us to restrict regional health station directors in this way. I would also like to see the effectiveness of these individual measures and their evaluation, because - and I have no problem with it at all, I am fighting with all those who reject drapes, and I say that if our motto has been taken up, that my drape protects you and yours protects me, then we should probably stay with that motto, because so far nothing more effective from those who are seriously concerned with hygiene, who are really concerned with the epidemic - and now I acknowledge the differences of experts' opinions, I have listened to several of them myself, so I must say that I consider this denial of the effectiveness of some things and the assessment of efficiency to be argued very important in the future, with the fact that it is not right for us to question these decisions from the very beginning, without assessing the effect of such a decision. If it turns out that the effect is not, then of course we can look for other solutions, as we look for solutions, for example, in the scientific work on finding an effective vaccine. So that's my only question for the Minister. This means control work, overtime hours of sanitary stations, and why there is a different approach to individual regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u17	Thank you. That was all the applications with priority rights at the moment, so I am opening a general debate for which we have several applications. Before I give the floor to Mr Koten, who is the first, I will introduce the House with an apology of the absence of Minister Petříček on 16 September from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am very glad that the conavir situation and the measures that have already been taken or need to be taken are being discussed here. I've been hearing from unfortunate mothers lately, who have put children in schools and kindergartens since that September 1st, and basically the moment when common colds appear in the baby, so the child is in quarantine, being moved to some sort of detachment room outside the rest of the collective, and the teacher or principal calls immediately mommy or daddy, calls parents just to take the baby away, and then the mommy is in some quarantine with him before she finds out if it's really common cold or normal coughing allergic, or if it's suspected of caroten. Unfortunately, in these cases, it is not treated that such a mother, who picks up a child from the school or kindergarten, so unfortunately it is not possible to apply some paragraph etc., so it is either addressed in the form of vacations. And I would like the government to solve this problem, too, because at that point, the economy will continue to decompose because firms will not be able to tolerate such things for a long time. I would also like to pause over one thing, so it is the distribution of masks, which are now being packed by Czech Post staff after a number of envelopes and sent to our seniors. However, the drapes are in a classic package, blistered in either five or ten pieces. That way, if there are four drapes, they need to be unwrapped. We don't know if the mail workers are doing it in some kind of protective equipment, the packaging, and we don't know if the drapes can be contaminated completely randomly before they come to the addressees. So I would also like someone competent to explain it to me, either the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Health. As far as treatment procedures are concerned. I pulled the statistics here, so it's the statistics that were published on the Prime Minister's profile. It's basically statistics on the fact that the more infected people in our republic are, so the less percent, so these days they're already forgiven, they're dying from these people. So right now, at the very end of that graph, of the last about 6,000 infected, it's 1.7 per cent death. [[It's showing a graph.]] I don't really want to play COVID-19 here, that's not gonna happen. However, statistics are statistics, and we know from statistics that almost 2,000 people died less than 2018 in this country, and this number is not yet the end of the year compared to 2019, but this number is about 500 lower. So if we were to talk about a pandemic of biblical proportions here, probably because of the measures that were taken in March, the pandemic did not really take place in those biblical dimensions. Other things that are here have been developed through certain treatments using available medications. Furthermore, people who went to the sun during the summer got a certain portion of vitamin D, and therefore they are a little more resistant and have a much better immunity than in the spring months, when the sun is considerably less. [[16.30 hours]] I'd like to point out one more strange thing here. At the time of the fight with Coronavirus, some preparations were tested in Wu-chan, such as Avigan, Japanese companies, and they were tested with relatively promising results, i.e. at least 60, 70 percent of the people who took this medicine at the start of the symptoms were both without symptoms within five days, but mainly were no longer infectious. From my point of view, this is also one of the ways to reduce the economic effects of this crisis, the use of tried drugs, and somewhere in the world. So this is more of a question for the Minister of Health, who should in some way verify whether the statistics outside our Republic are somehow relevant, and therefore consider using this medicine for the sick, who therefore have some start-up problems. The other day, I've been intersecting the Prime Minister here, if by any chance the government is considering setting up a state institute for the manufacture of pharmaceuticals. These drugs could be produced there, among other things, and other generics of different medicines could be produced there, and prices would be far lower than those of world producers. What would that mean? It would mean saving money for our health system, which is currently forced to buy preparations differently abroad from multinational companies, which, of course, have to pay for it. I met with this interesting thing in France at Charles de Gaulle Airport. At the exit from the airport there was a classic tent, as we know it here, with some laboratory, however, the difference compared to the Czech Republic is that basically anyone comes to the airport, anyone from any state goes and is tested for free. We can argue here that the price of the test is 1 760, so it will weigh down our system and so on. Well, we basically shift our responsibility for tests to our taxpayers, who pay it personally from their family budget. So why is it in France and we can't? I think that just to reduce the consequences of this pandemic and to find out who is actually positive or not positive, testing for free would be very helpful. If they can test in France, why can't they test in our country? In addition, in the queues that are here in the Czech Republic before the tents - I recently saw a line from Liberec, which was almost 400 meters - I have absolutely no illusions that no one can get infected in the queue if there is someone positive. These are actually places where these people can get infected in some way with personal contact. Furthermore, relatively late, some of my previous speakers have said that, coming from hygiene in case of any contact with the infected. It comes with a delay of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 days, however, with a healthy person, it means hundreds of contacts with people he comes into contact with. That's why I don't think a smart quarantine is working, because it's not even possible to shake down the number of contacts with the technical means that we have at our disposal right now. Where it works quite nicely, so it's Germany, because they have an app for it too, but I had a visit from Germany, showed me an app that actually writes to him, and in case he might happen to meet someone sick, it immediately pops up almost online, doesn't burden him with a flashlight, writes it to him that he was in contact and that he should be examined. The statistics available here are not exactly happy because the infected are growing, but on the other hand, we have to say that the course is much more moderate than in the spring months, and I am glad. I hope that the pandemic will be managed and that we will finally find and build some national enterprise of the Czech Republic that would start producing resources that would then be used to treat already ill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u19	Thank you. Mr Válek is next in the debate, Mr Čižinský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The later he gets off, the easier he gets off on the subject, because many things have already been said. I dare say that when I started testing the tests, the cryptos of my field told me: "Patriot, whatever the candidate is, even if you want to fire him, at least give him a little credit, let him have hope." So I'm going to try to compliment the Minister a little, too, because I think we're really ready for serious patients, and thank the Ministry for that, that there are enough beds on the ICU, that the hospital system is ready for that. That means, if there are really impossible patients, I don't think the system will collapse. I hope he doesn't collapse. And those preparations have been made, and I can verify it in practice not only in our hospital, but in a number of other hospitals. The system is really preparing for this situation. The question is whether we can really help these patients if we have effective treatment for them, but that's another matter. But I really can't praise the others for that. I was hoping to learn the dates that I would learn the facts, because from what a person has from different patients, colleagues, e-mail contacts, from those who respond to my posts, I know that they're gradually extending the waiting times to be tested. It doesn't matter if he's a self-wrecker or if he's got a request. There are regions where those times are very long, there are regions where they are shorter, but those times are longer. I know that there are increasingly less and less positive routes, that not everyone is being routed, that the route is being gradually limited simply because it is not being pursued in hygiene, even there are official recommendations for hygiene, for example in Brno, when the county health care worker wrote to make young people, and I don't know who, they didn't walk at all and were not being routed and they didn't get tested because they didn't. So this information is just in the media, you get it from personal contacts and you check it out. I wouldn't dare criticize it if it were made clear here: the Ministry of Health doesn't plan on testing everyone, but plans to only be tested by elderly patients over the age of 60 - I'm in the water, 60 - or that patients with clinical symptoms and comorbidity will be tested. So what is the plan for testing, and how many patients are currently waiting - or how long are patients waiting for the test today? I'm 100% sure if I picked up this phone, dialed a random number of some lab, and wanted to make an appointment with my GP, or I had a request from my GP to order, that the answer would not be "come today, come tomorrow," but that the answer would be far, far more pessimistic, that I would get a deadline in three, four, five days. If I ask what to do when I have clinical symptoms and the doctor tells me, I won't know the answer. That's what bothers me a little bit. I would like to make it clear what the Ministry of Health plan is, what the waiting period is acceptable; If we want to shorten it, what do we have to do about it? And Parliament, all political parties, and I think it is very positive, offer the utmost assistance. Nobody really makes this political. If there is a clear plan, a clear strategy - not what we would like, not what we would think, not what we would have planned, but this will be step A, this will be step B, we will achieve these numbers in this way - so I think that all political parties across this Parliament will support such a clear strategy. That's why today's meeting is. The same applies to tracing. I do not know if we want to track all 5 %, 10 %, but again should be heard - he was clearly saying this through Mr Kalousek - a clear plan, what we really want, what the aim is, what number of patients we want to travel, because the information is changing. [[16.40 hours]] Of course, and it was said here, the current phase of the disease is increasing the number of positive tested, but most of them are either symptomsless or with minimal symptomatology. But that's not the credit of the system, that's not the credit of the measures, that's just the way we are with faith. It's either the grace of boží or nature, one or the other. We have no influence over this. And that's why we're not going to have any effect on the fact that the behavior of the virus, as it unexpectedly changed in a positive direction, is going to return to that behavior as it was in March or April. If a team of experts led by epidemiologists, Professor Prymula and others who are all government advisors, Prime Minister - and I don't know who isn't the advisor of these people today, it's so many teams and so many advisors that you lose - if everyone tells you no, the risk is half a pardon, well, I'm calm, I'll support the fact that the virus will never be dangerous again, and I'll start telling the truth: don't be crazy, it's not so bad. But if there are any prognosis - and I just don't believe it, I really don't believe that the UHIS from my data - because I know Professor Dušek, I've known him for 25 years, and I know very well that every time, whether it was a cancer registry, whatever it was, he always presented a pessimistic, realistic, optimistic scenario at all conferences from the data he had. That means if the pessimistic scenario is that seriously ill will be half a pardon, my fears were useless. If the pessimistic scenario is that seriously ill will be 20, 30, 40, 50 percent, then it's a disaster and it's a crime that this House doesn't know and that we're not going to do it. I don't know where the truth is. I'd like to hear the data. I'd like to hear them from relevant experts. I don't know, and I'm not the expert. And I am prepared, when the risk of this catastrophic scenario is combined with political responsibility, to bear it with the government coalition, even if I am an opposition MP. I'll explain why. If there's a risk of a forest fire, you can either wait for the forest to burn, and then try to put it out, or take precautions to keep the forest from burning. The precautions are unpopular, unattractive. The moment you do them and explain them to everyone, it's because the forest doesn't burn, so most agree with you. But then you start introducing them. And the forest, when it's well introduced, doesn't start to burn. And gradually all those who applauded you begin to say, well, it doesn't burn, so why such measures, there were no fires. And at that point, you must have on your side the whole political spectrum in order to be forgiven - and I am very sorry about that, Mr President, I am not using rough words here, now I am going to use it - didn't find an asshole who agreed at the beginning, and then stepped out - it didn't burn, why did we accept it? And I promise that if there's a catastrophic scenario - I don't know, but if it does - and there's a need to bring in some major measures to prevent it, I'm not gonna do anything in my life that I did and then say why we did it, because there was nothing like that. But I don't want a change of attitude every week. To once drapes for schools, not drapes for schools. For once in a while, to test everyone, for a second time is actually not necessary. To make one phone call there and there, they'll tell you everything, and then we found out we couldn't get in. That is why I think that what Mr Michálek is proposing through the President is very reasonable, and I intercede for myself in particular for resuscitation of the crisis staff. Instead of some of the various committees that advise the Prime Minister, the government, the Minister of Health, let there be one body that controls it, even at the cost of all Members having to wear red sweaters for a month. It's also worth this crisis crew. Please, let's consider, if nothing, at least this point, at least this approval, let's get the crisis crew back on line. This is not the responsibility of one political party, it is the responsibility of all of us, and the coalition has a unique opportunity, unique, to take advantage of the opposition's offer, which is willing to participate in political co-responsibility for all measures. If justified by experts, they will be meaningful and reasonable and will not change every week. It's got to do with the drapes. What is a citizen supposed to think and what should I think when the Prime Minister sends out drapes from China, i.e. a respirator from China plus five masks - the Prime Minister doesn't, he sends them Czech Post - and his advisor Professor Prymula says no, no, no, much better are Czech production donors, they are 90 percent better. So why aren't we sending them, the seniors, the underdogs, when they're much better, and Professor Prymula, the guru and the Prime Minister's advisor, is that what he's saying? What should I think when I sit on the Health Committee and there is information from the Chief Hygiene - and I did not sit there alone, Professor Špičák sat there through the President, there were colleagues sitting on the right, there were colleagues sitting there from the left - there are the information from the Chief Hygiene, there are the information from the Minister, there are the information from the First Deputy, and Professor Prymula sits in a place where the Minister normally sits, and so as he shakes his head and says at moments, that's bullshit. I don't know. Is there, then, a united position of experts and governments, or is it not? And if he is, I'm with him on what he's based on. And I promise again, and that's it, and I'm gonna back him up, and I'm really not gonna undermine him. The only thing I'm concerned about right now is that we can somehow endure it until effective vaccination is available or before the virus disappears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u21	Thank you. Mr Čižinský is now signing up for the general debate, Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious. Unfortunately, the presence of neither the members of the government, nor my colleagues, nor your colleagues, nor yours, through the President, does not suggest this. We're discussing one of the most important points of our country, and the benches aren't half empty, but they're just empty, and that includes the bench around me. That's what I need to say. The House here is doing what it's set up to do, controlling the government. The government hasn't come, it's just the Gesture Minister. The other ministers and Prime Minister don't care, and it's very alarming. Because I must repeat, it is our country's most important current problem. [[Member of the Razor: Worlds.]] Yes, even the world, when the MP here yells at me. The minister said the situation wasn't good and there's no point in covering it up. I don't think there's any point in hiding that the situation is serious. Even the Home Secretary used the word "not good" because he didn't want to admit that the situation was serious. There was talk of a clever quarantine. That clever quarantine, just as expectations were raised in people, and that clever quarantine, as people thought, and many of us thought it would be a combination of eRouška plus tracking plus all the hygiene agendas, it really doesn't work. And the minister didn't explain the situation here, but he said everyone got it wrong. But the term "smart quarantine" is understood by everyone the way the Prime Minister and the Minister were smacked in the head. That it's just a solution and that it's gonna work out great. And it's not working. The situation is not yet catastrophic just because many sacrificed people actually work with enormous effort and with large victims on hygiene. [[16.50 hours]] What has to stop in this development? It must stop the contradiction between what the government and ministers are saying and what is happening really. That's what it's like - the drapes are, I'll bring them to you, the smart quarantine works. And she's not working. And they have to stop splitting people up. We really need to pull together at this point, not as Prime Minister, to give the impression that someone is happy that the situation is bad or that someone hates someone, like seniors. We need the government to do its job and keep people together and keep people from splitting up. Because at this time, we really need to stick together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u23	Thank you. I would exceptionally like to point out from this point that the hall is half empty, because we agreed as a political presentation to limit the presence of Members, but also the staff in the hall and in the building. Well, thank you. And now, Mr. Svoboda. And Mr. Běhounek will be prepared. No, look out. Mr Nacher is here with a point of fact. I'm sorry. So first, Mr Nacher, then Mr Čižinský, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u24	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I have no choice but to apply to the actual and responsive again. He has already partially answered that question, Mr President. For viewers -- first of all, we're halfway there today, first of all. Secondly, now that I've counted it, here on the opposition side, there are fewer MPs than where the coalition is, which, of course, the cameras won't work. So it looks like no one cares about the coalition and the opposition does. [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] My colleague, I didn't open it here. I don't think I count the MPs here if my colleague Čižinský hadn't talked about it. It is then in the media space and it feels different than it is. And if I had to take the context, he probably knows, which is why he's standing up, maybe he'll respond to me. So for context, it's a parallel. That point is listed. We're talking about him, or you're talking about him, we're listening. When we in Prague wanted to place a point of support for business in the time of Coronavirus, even two attempts were not able to include it at all on the council program, where the colleague is in the coalition next to the members of the TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and so on. We couldn't even discuss it with them. That's one point. Second point. When we talk about pulling it together, I'll give you another concrete example of when it's actually possible and when - now I don't want to say the password here, because I use it often enough, shown - when somewhere on Twitter queues were criticized at the sampling point on Wenceslas Square. And while it was the decision of the city leadership and I am the opposition representative, I stood up for it, why it is on Wenceslas Square, that it was especially for foreigners, for people from other countries, and that if it were on the edge of the city, someone would complain that half of the Pražans are far away. [[Attention on time.]] That means, that's how it shows that even opposition... [[Another warning on time.]] Well, I'll check in, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u25	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of calling everyone to the point. After all, we are discussing the issues of the whole country, not just Prague. And please Mr Čižinský, who will also respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u26	I'll just go with the numbers. If every other minister and minister were here in the government, we wouldn't be talking about anything. This is where the Minister cowers himself. And we are discussing a very important issue. That's what I wanted to point out. And criticism is in its own ranks. And I admitted it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u27	Thank you. Those were all factual points at the moment. We will continue the debate. Mr. Mr. Freedom. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good day to you all. Almost everything has been said. Everyone said what they needed, what they thought needed. But what is absolutely essential to me is that, without a doubt, time has been missed in the past period. And today we're trying to miss out on more time. I'll tell you why now. We were here at the turn of January until February saying the threat was here. The House didn't deal with it. When we said we had the only way to take precautions in our masks, the House didn't deal with it. And yet this thing is very simple. We've got a disease ahead of us that we don't have a cure that we can't exactly diagnose, we don't know how long it leaves immunity, and actually all we have is to follow the last factor that epidemiology knows, which means taking some steps to prevent the disease from spreading. In fact, the only thing we have of those preventions is the drape with all its contention. And now we're discussing what's going on with the collections, what's going on with the smart quarantine. I wouldn't want to tell you how it really is, so you know what it means when you're standing in the operating room waiting for the result of a covid that doesn't come to you. It's not just because they're not reagents, or because they didn't do it in Ostrava. How do you feel when people come to your office with difficulty and you have no chance of having them examined in time? Those are the problems we deal with from morning to evening. From morning to evening, we have to work with the fact that we're at risk. I don't want to talk about it. It's our job. It's our duty. But at this point, we have to finally start doing something right, which means preventing us from doing it for real. We're not here to say that the number of samples is large or small. We have to figure out who is to be taken, how often and how quickly we have to have those results when someone is taken away. And we're going to take 15,000 samples, and we're going to have the results in 48 hours, sometimes longer, exceptionally faster, but then we're going to use tests that we don't have and that's going to run. Well, the whole clever quarantine is lost, because by the time the result comes up, that man met half of Europe, even though it could have been blocked long ago. We should learn from how it works in other countries. We should look to our neighboring countries where the drapes have not ended and where everyone knows that wearing a drape under your nose or under your mouth is exactly the same as not having it. And in our country, it's totally obvious. Over the course of the day, I watched it with my own MPs here in the hall, and the ones with the drape under their noses are here within a third. And these are all things that I consider to be a fundamental neglect that information about our options, information about experience is constantly distorted. It's distorted by having a high number of samples. Then it turns out that we're on top of 100,000 people. It turns out the results are too late, they're not right away. We say we have a low percentage of serious diseases, but that's math. If we have 1 per cent of serious diseases - 1 per cent of serious diseases - and we have 500,000 infected, how many will we have seriously ill if it's 1 per cent? We all know math. If it's 10 percent, the other extreme, we're already over the limit of how many beds we have for the sick. [[17,00 hours]] We are talking about this and the Minister about how wonderfully he managed to provide care for sick patients, to secure beds. What have we secured? At the beginning of the crisis we had about 1,800 beds for intensive care and beds, which have the opportunity to take care of possible extrabody oxidation. And that's the same for us all the time. There's not one more. There may have been a few more machines, but it's not a big deal. And all the time, the minister is counting on the absolute number of beds, and no one will say that at present 50 percent of those beds are burdened by normal patients who also need them. No one solves the problem of how we'll take care of normal patients if we keep doing this, and we'll be busy caring for covid patients. And that's why I'm talking. I would like the government to finally define what steps are going to be when things get worse. I don't want to hear that she's good and that she might be good, we're trying, we're going to. I want to hear it: we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it. That's the only way we're gonna do anything here, and we're not gonna help. It's just that if we try and do nothing, we'll end up like the Spring infection. She's like she's gonna go away, and she's gonna come back again, and she's gonna come back in a bigger and more complicated picture. That's why today we have to start working with prevention ahead, prospectively, not from what we already know what happened, or what we think isn't going to happen. We have to assume, as my colleague Válek said, that the option could be worse, simply because it is the only way that we can prevent the worse option and say to ourselves: we have done everything for it and we have succeeded. This means, when we talk about masks, we should start talking seriously about the quality of the drapes, whether the drapes, or the respirator, and how to solve the problem of the respirator, what a burden it is for those around who have the respirator. We should get our academy to try and figure out the variant of the respirators somehow. Because if the teachers don't have respirators, the schools won't work. Eventually, they get sick even though they wear drapes. People don't have them around. The quality of the drapes is crucial and must protect the person wearing it, otherwise it is only protection to the surroundings. The latest development says that there is a community spread started here, definitely in the area of Prague. And the moment it's started, we only have mathematical development ahead of us, and if we don't do something to slow it down, we won't be able to handle it. You can twist your head in any way, however, I say the thing that's possible. [[Members of the Brazdil.]] And if we don't count on that option, then the whole prevention is lost. That's not the way to do it. We can't say something's not gonna happen or something's good. We have to think: we are at risk of this and that, and that is why we have to take such and such measures, so we have to have such and such advances, so we have to have such and such ability to trace. Talking about hygiene being understaffed. So why didn't we build an option now that we're dealing with the cursarbeit that those outside of their workplaces aren't able to work on the tracking in some form? They'd be trained to do what they're supposed to do in two hours if they can at least do the basic alphabet to write some things. No, we're gonna say we don't have those people. That's just what I really wish we'd left now, these sentences about us not having something, something we can't do, and something that's not gonna happen. The problem is here and it will be. At this point, we should have a crisis crew that would be able to make decisions about these things in some form. Crisis crew is a structure that can solve crisis situations, but they're always the same, it doesn't matter if it's an infection, or if it's a mass disaster, or if it's a hurricane that blew into our territory. He has the ability to take steps and provide things in a relatively simple and sophisticated way. No, we will not work with him, we will not approve him, and it will be dealt with by a group of ad hoc experts appointed but who will listen to political decisions. So my wish, my request to you, is that we really try our best to get the government to present us with a clear and concrete plan, what the next steps will be - not the next steps at the moment when it ends well, but what the next steps will be when the increase in these infections corresponds to how it is now manifesting itself. The only way is that in all these steps, the entire population will cooperate with us, and we haven't been able to catch that. As we differently assess the situation, how we propose different measures one day, the next day we reject them, we have achieved that no one believes it. I was in the neighboring Austria, and there really is a completely different situation. There, if someone had a mask under their noses, the guy next to him would say, "You dropped a mask off your nose," and he'd say, "Oh, my God," and he'd put it right back in there. Nobody's forcing them to do it. That they would go and walk in the castle and not wear drapes, it doesn't exist. It doesn't exist that they accumulate in common facilities. We have achieved that these people take the government's duty to protect them, and they are not willing to do anything about it. If we can't inform them if the Department of Health can't do such an education that the protection against the spread of this virus will be accepted by those people as their own, then we will achieve absolutely nothing. Nothing at all simply because all those protective preventive steps will simply not be implemented. And that's what we should talk about, how to do it, how to do it, and it might not even be necessary to talk about the fact that we've already designed all these things, no one has done them, and that they will come to them. So I firmly believe that what I'm saying, like everything we've said, whatever it was, whatever it was, whatever it was, whatever it was, it's going to come back in some form. What we're saying today: let's convince the nation that the situation is such that they have to work together to prevent the disease from spreading. Let's find some node points that need to be secured. Thus, there are good drapes for people who are at greater risk, whether they are teachers or whether they are people in social institutions. Let's get them quality drapes or respirators. Let's make sure that it doesn't happen that every day someone says: this has some exception, where it stands, it can't be done, where it sits, it can be done. All these things are unclear, confusing, and every step of the way has to be justified. I'm willing to accept anything when someone tells me why to do this and how it helps us. If such a plan arises, if a group of crisis experts and an epidemic expert group are really going to deal with it, I believe that we will succeed in failing to reach a situation where all the threats I have said here will occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u29	Thank you. I received word from Mr. Michálek's reporter. With priority rights, I presume, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make a contribution to this debate in order to get back to the subject, although, of course, with a lot of the things that have been said here, I agree with which was the control of the implementation of House of Deputies resolution No. 1162 and then another measure. And I heard some interesting information in the Minister's speech, so I did not hear any specific comments on the individual points of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 1162 of 4 June 2020. They had it there for a few months, so I would expect it to inform us of the reason why the Central Epidemiology Commission has not met since 15 May, why the Prime Minister failed to fulfil his obligation to submit a report to the Chamber of Deputies, information on the solutions chosen, and preparation for the possible arrival of another wave of pandemic coronavirus, so that we can learn why MEPs did not receive a reply to a letter from 13. 8. 2020 and, therefore, we need to discuss this here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies in order to learn some indicative timetable as to how the draft national strategy for testing covid disease will ever be completed, etc. And of course I wanted to add that, in relation to those resolutions, applications under block C, there are no deadlines for the individual points, but if they are requests for information or explanations, then the general provisions of the law under which the Government or the Head of Administration are obliged to provide explanations or information within a period of 30 days shall apply. So much for us to actually, if we approve another resolution here, not to meet the fact that we will have to go through scrutiny again, because the government will not comply with the points approved by the Chamber of Deputies and will not respond to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u31	Thank you and now Mr Běhounek, who is duly signed up for the general debate. Mr. Birke will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Minister, colleagues, many have been said here, and I will limit myself to a few very specific issues. Let us not be illusioned, it is a global pandemic that awaits the whole of Europe. And unfortunately, the latest models available to me or known to me do not give me the impression that I do not share in the Minister's optimism. The numbers don't talk about the situation being easy. I just want to point out that it's really nice to say statistically how many beds we have, how much capacity we have, how many breathers we have, but I didn't hear in any of the shows that with the increasing number of infected, we're not going to grow the number of attending staff, doctors, nurses, and all those who are in social services. The captains had to prove in the first period, in a very difficult time, and I speak for them now, for all the captains, when they had no experience, that they had to help each other if so firefighters and others, because the state was unable to even release some forces. It's been compared gradually, but if you think we can activate half the army at 30,000 infected, then you're out. Unfortunately, this does not mean that those levels that are ready should be fully developed, what we will do if A, B, C. What concrete steps we will tackle, which hospitals we will restructure and what we will do with it all. Someone's gotta drive. In the first part, the Central Crisis Staff was in charge, and unfortunately, I have to activate the Governor's videoconferencing, we invited the Minister to attend to it, and we will have to deal with these matters with our own efforts to elaborate these steps. I'm assuming there's some ideas coming from the Department of Health. I was just talking about health care, but I warn you that the exact same situation is in social services, perhaps even worse, and in education. Even there, we should know what steps we will take and how we will approach it. You're talking about pulling together, and we're supposed to depoliticize, cooperate, coordinate. I have to ask if this is even possible in the Czech Republic. And once again, the captains, who eventually have to work with their regions and their capacity, had to do that, because they had nothing left at all. So I call on the Minister to start discussing the issues of operational times, the issues of further assembly, shopping centres, organizational measures in individual operations, so that we do not stop the economy, hospitals and social services. We're ready for this. And I wonder if the proclamation of joint pulling for one rope and cooperation will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Birke, Mr Juránek, who is currently the last member of the debate, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary, Dear Government, fellow Members, as has been said, I think that the important things have been said here. Let me begin by saying, however, that I should always speak to this matter, so I say the sight of an ordinary mayor. The view of a person who, like my over 6,500 colleagues, is actually experiencing this covid every day in individual contact with citizens and solving specific and individual problems. Let me just make a short return in time. On Thursday, March 12th, when the ground was shut down, we are all at once, and in my opinion, whether they were mayors, but I think that also all politicians, but also people in the Czech Republic first, found themselves in a situation that none of us, or at least those who were born after World War II, had actually experienced. I confess that the people who were born earlier told me that it reminded me a lot of the situation in the Protectorate when the streets were empty, when people were afraid and afraid of something that could come and could degenerate for them. I confess that even that moment was absolutely stressful for me, because I had no idea what was coming. The first collision with reality was when it was actually discovered that in the state's material reserves at that time - and I don't want to touch anyone - there was hardly any drape. And I got a call Friday afternoon from district doctors, 70 of them from all over the ORP. They said, Mr. Mayor, we don't have anything anywhere, we need drapes, respirators, we need to open the office on Monday morning. On Monday, when we equipped them, the border was closed, a 54-mile front was formed, the army arrived, simply and well, things happened that we were never confronted with. The situation at that time was indeed very serious. I said to myself when I was sitting and I was running the crisis crew, so I thought, for God's sake, I don't want to go through this again. You know, the helpless, the solution -- and look out, I was one of those lucky guys who had respirators, we had drapes. I'm not talking about people who didn't have anything. Even about an army that had nothing on her mouth, and they came in with wet clothes on their mouths. However, I would like to say that I certainly am not standing here today as a human being, I am a loyal coalition MP, and in no way will I, and I will not, nor do you expect me to criticize anyone. I don't even want to criticize. Because I know how hard it is. For I myself was in opposition more than ten years ago and it is basically simple, because you can point out in opposition, but sometimes, you also point out things that the government coalition is not even responsible for. In short, if you want to hit a dog, you always find a stick. But I'm not saying that, but it's actually the role of the opposition. On the other hand, the truth is that I have to be objective here and get back to the fact that when I talk about the fact that I wanted a similar scenario not to happen again, not just to me, but to the people who live in that city, and I think I'm speaking for a whole bunch of colleagues here, I thought that once we've seen it, we're going to do something again. In other words, we're gonna take corrective action, we're gonna make crisis plans. [[17.20 hours]] I'm not an expert. I'm not a doctor, I don't have college. I never even claimed, like some colleagues, that I was able to make it, but I didn't, because I just didn't have time for it, and maybe I couldn't even handle it. I'm not a doctor. I'm not an epide specialist... I can't even say it, epidemic, thank you. I'm just a practical person, a mayor who can drive a body, and I don't think so, completely wrong. But let's just make it easy to summarize what we're in so it doesn't fit between the lines that maybe haven't fallen here today. We had opening 1. 9. pupils, respectively opening schools, after more than five months, and actually arrived, and it was good that at least something came from Minister Plaga - who is not here today, and I hope that soon he will be okay and well done surgery when he fell off his bike - but it came as a recommendation. Mayors and founders, do whatever you want, because this is what we recommend, but it's up to you. Respectfully, it's up to the school principal. The rouška. The drapes, I don't know what the situation is in the state's material reserves. I don't know if they managed to compete with any drapes in the tender. Probably not. As far as I know, the government has transferred some volume of drapes to state material reserves, as far as I know, and I don't know what the situation is in the tender areas to which the funds have been allocated, I'm guessing over 3.5 billion. I do not think that this is, of course, the fault of the President of State's material reserves. I think it's a mistake that we're out of emergency and we have to follow the Public Procurement Act, which to some extent you all know very well that competing today is a complication, let alone competing with drapes. I don't know if FFP 2 managed to compete, drapes, respirators, I don't know, I don't want to say it, but I'm not far from the truth if I remember that at least from some press release about a month ago we had nothing to compete with, or there was nothing to say about it, except gloves that nothing went wrong. This means that there is nothing left but that the founders, in this case the region, once again, as my colleague Běhounek said here through you, will have to arrange the matter, but again on the basis of the Public Procurement Act. Or, of course, they're gonna have to get cities. Cities that - and that is what is needed to remember - also establish social services. They also have health facilities in their property, especially the larger cities, and they are, of course, responsible for these facilities and for the operation in them. I admit that I think that in the mayor's responsibility, because it is precisely because they know that the situation that is happening today, and as has been said here, indisputably that it is, it is becoming serious - and I am not a panicker, please, in no way - but it is becoming serious, so certainly from some instinct of self-preservation these people, I am talking about the worries here, they are definitely overstocking themselves, or at least they still have supplies from a March covide. On the other hand, my predecessors or previous speakers talked about it, I think this is where the long line on Wenceslas Square was used, I can talk about how in such clogged Náchod there is a long column of cars for testing, people sitting in cars and testing themselves. The line is about a kilometer, and I admit that from the logic of the matter - and now I read the comments, I mean the journalistic ones: don't go testing, there won't be such long queues. Go test yourself to know how it will be routed and how your disease will of course be dealt with. The problem is that, to some extent, we do not speak as representatives of the state with one voice. I don't want to be here again, I say again, I don't want to criticize anyone. It's a very difficult situation to handle, and I admit, even in this respect, the role of Prime Minister is, of course, when it's all falling on one head, it's almost impossible, believe me. And I think that in this respect - and again, I am not Mr. Prime Minister's attorney, but I admit that I am a little sorry that - we have instruments, we have systems that work well. We've got emergency crews, we've got emergency situations, we've got premeditated system solutions that are working. We have competent people who are used to it, whether in municipalities, in regions or at the highest peak, which means in government. I'm sorry there's no emergency crew set up. It's not about the Home Secretary, it's not about the red sweater, it's not about Jan Hamáček. It is about the situation that is in the Czech Republic. It can't just be that one person pulls it off, saves it, and stops the covid, as they say, on the barricade with the boobs and beats it all. It's just not possible. It's a team thing, on the other hand, and it's also not possible for the Minister of Health to be in charge of everything. With all due respect, Minister, by your means, this is a huge log, the responsibility to manage it. Not to mention - and I understand you, because I was in a situation 14 days ago when I felt like a skier in a slalom, because suddenly people started falling into quarantine and covideo next to me, and I picked it out like I did in that slalom, and suddenly I realized how hard it is for you when your boss falls into it in covideo... hygiene, thank you very much, and, of course, on that basis, she's dragging you into the matter, unconsciously, of course, even you. [[Members from the hall suggest: Hygienes.]] When the key people in the system begin to fall, or eventually they will be shut down in quarantine, the system will collapse. It can't work. You can't run this from the home office. You can't control it. Maybe so, but we're not genius managers to direct this country through TV screens. It's just not possible. The contact, the physical contact and the management control need to be done physically. Or, of course, I'm terribly wrong, but in my opinion, it has to be. One thing I would perhaps, by your means, Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you if you would explain this to me. I don't understand one thing. I remember exactly what numbers we had in the covide when it closed in an emergency state of the Republic. That number in Náchod County was somewhere around 68 people. Give or take. We're on a triple number today, I mean now in Náchod County, we're already in a green traffic light and actually we're not in a situation, I don't want to make it clear, of course, that that's why I'm actually asking for the activation of the crisis staff today, doesn't mean please, and now even maybe for those who are watching me, and you all know very well that it's not the introduction of an emergency state, for God's sake, it's obvious that nobody wants to turn it off, that's why the traffic light is, that's why there's individual locations and so on and so on, and I think that's a good way to go, and I'm saying that I understand it, of course, but I don't understand one thing that if the numbers are this high, that it's just not to a certain extent, you understand me, you don't worry, because in an emergency state it's a lot lower numbers. Maybe I'd like to explain that, 'cause that's the only thing I didn't get. I'm talking about people who are positive. And I will finish, but I want to say, as I have already said, that I am not one of the Members who identify in many cases - with all due respect - with the proposals of fellow Pirates, but in this case, I will allow myself to make an exception, and not only in point C-6, the establishment of a crisis staff. But I think that, on other points too, I must appreciate my colleagues that the material is very sophisticated, very well prepared, and I think that it is finally a relevant document, which, of course, can be discussed. And I very much appreciate the debate that it is not about the opposition not having a stick in his hand and beating up the coalition, virtually. government through the back, except for a few exceptions. I want to thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u35	Thank you, too. I wish you all a nice evening. The next in line is Mr Juránek in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u36	Mr President, Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues, I have decided to speak today precisely because the situation is completely different from that of this point. This point says that we control the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies 1162, and we actually control it indirectly because the government is not here. [[Minister Vojtěch and Minister Dostálová are sitting in the government bench.]] And I would say that what is important today is that the knowledge and ideas of the Chamber of Deputies for its use be heard online for the government, because the situation that is now very serious. I've experienced these serious situations as mayor and chieftain. One thesis speaks of the fact that there were most of them in the South Moravian Region. But that's not the point. The point is, at some point, we always know it's gonna be bad. And now we can be absolutely sure of that, because the numbers show us clearly. It sounded here a while ago. And compared to what my previous speaker said, it's now tripled in their county than it was at the moment the situation was announced. And all I remember is that I was in a village called Hodonin near Kunštát, and the mayor tried in vain to convince local people that they needed to be evacuated because the sun was shining. But we've already been counted that in two hours, even though the sun is shining, so because upstairs water attacked, the water will be there in two hours. And now I say, mathematically, we're exactly the same as the mayor. It cost the mayor one more big problem because they didn't save one woman anymore and she died, she took her water because she just didn't believe that something like this could happen. And I would very much hate to be here at the moment when the sun is still shining, when we can still say, "it's about time, it'll come in about two weeks, and only then it'll be really serious" so that we don't use all the ideas that are here. And I'll start hard with the one that's systemic. We in this country have been prepared for many years after what happened in 1997, in the form of crisis management. And I point out that the crisis management system is, please, from the smallest unit, i.e. from the village, set up to the government, and there are clear moments in which a third-type community must enter, is the moment when the region must enter, and there is a moment when the government must enter. And I'm just saying here because we're actually dealing with the government online, so I'm just saying that the time is up and that going to crisis management is a good thing for the government, because if you don't go to crisis management - and that's my main message that I want to say - you're not going to use the capacity that is in that space right now. The decision must be made to involve as many people as possible. And as many people as we can get involved with a system that exists. We can't invent a system that isn't. And the system is in crisis management. There's an integrated rescue system. A moment ago, the current governor was speaking, and certainly all the captains had to try it very hard now, how and how difficult it was to engage him. And the point is that something will be solved by the village itself, and that will be one concern that someone in Prague would have to deal with. If the village isn't enough, the third-type community will help. After that, if there's more of these communities or they're not enough to do it on their own, then the integrated rescue system is. And there they all arise in connection with the crisis crews, virtually. Emergency crews are activated. And so it's best that these signals are actually going from the bottom up and that's when these things are being dealt with. And now I'm gonna say -- flood, fire, emergency crash, mosquitoes, bird flu, gas station, environmental crash. All of this always came in some space, and it had to be dealt with. And by the time we didn't make it as a county, we turned to the government and the government as the first step at the time I was the governor, even though I was the deputy governor, i.e. By 2016, when this thing happened, part of the crisis management at the national level was always clearly activated. And I'm very embarrassed right now, at this point, but I just recommend it. When we have and we have decided to have a light, the traffic light has to work on all the levels I've been talking about. And it must be absolutely clear both at the lowest level and at the highest level. And we need to know exactly when it's white, we have peace, when it's green, there's measure. But these measures must be precisely defined, and we must learn from the fact that at this point we have not even been able to get them into these municipalities, and I think not even perfectly into those regions, and there is nothing left to do but simply explain and clearly say that if there is green paint, then these measures will be implemented. And I'm saying, these measures are possible, and they can be solved, not at national level, but at lower level. I mean, it's divided into individual counties. And that way we can get to solving a number of problems locally, and not that at one point when they cross our total numbers, we're going to announce something for the whole republic. And of course these things have to be coordinated in some way. But again, it's not for the Minister of Health. That's clearly not for the Minister of Health. I'm saying it has to be a crisis management system. In that crisis management, the crisis management is built so that all who can immediately give the order are in that crisis management. And I felt like a beautiful thing when I was dealing with it at county level, because that's where the head of office sits and I say yes to him, that's what we agreed on, that's what you're gonna do. The police are sitting there - that's what the police are gonna do. That's what firemen do. And when it splits like that, I can even involve it, virtually. Anyone who can in that system is head and decide, so he can then decide, delegate and involve everyone. So I can say it wasn't about the governor when we had the floods. That was about everyone. Because we got up, and the whole council split up the county, and everyone had a job in some part of the county that he was guarding and where he helped solve the problem that was going on there. [[17.40 hours]] And I'm asking that we take this thing as a test. Like tried, because what I'm feeling right now is that neither the regions nor the municipalities can fully engage their integrated rescue system. And I can afford it, maybe unlike the fellow mayor here, through the President, to stress it. That's the system we've created here, and so far, there's no other system. If we create another system in quiet times, let's create it, but let's not create it now, because now, at this point, we may have 14 days ahead of us, some epidemiologists say, when we really have some capacity to fill up, and we're not ready for some capacity to exceed, but I think we can improvise. Just like in the beginning, when the mayors didn't have the drape, unlike some, they found someone who made it, there's still some chance of getting something ready. I dare say that something can be prepared especially at regional level, and I hope that regardless of the fact that, unfortunately, in these 14 days, the campaign is culminating in the regions, that it will be possible to prepare for this cause, because according to what I've been watching about the epidemiologists, I'm guessing exactly after the election. But I think that there must be a situation, just as there has been in Slovakia, where there have been even national elections, that right now the teams will prepare it, even if they prepare it before the meeting for someone else who will replace them in that place. And I dare say that if you actually experience water coming somewhere, that fire is coming somewhere, that disease is coming somewhere, that it is so great a connecting force, that there is no problem then, no matter how political negotiations turn out, all these people have joined together to help solve this critical crisis situation. So I'm just going to finish with the idea that I think is the most important one. I think that if there is a system that works well here - and I stress it also works among others because we have so many volunteer firefighters, but that we also have great professional firefighters, but also all the other components that are part of the integrated rescue system - let us try, and that is a request, let us try now no matter how things should be, to move the matter to the crisis crew at the level of the whole Republic. I think that is now the most valuable step that can be taken to involve as many people as possible in the disposal or preparation - now even preparation - of the crisis that awaits us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u37	Thank you. I do not have anyone registered for the general debate electronically from Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a point which examines how the Government has complied with the House resolution adopted on 4 June and how many of these tasks it has carried out. It was said that it was not so excellent, because of the eleven tasks, in quotation marks, the government fulfilled only two, and it was the Ministry of Education, and five tasks failed at all, three partially. And that, I think, speaks for itself, and it also shows how the government respects the Chamber of Deputies and how it performs the tasks that the Chamber of Deputies gives it. I just remind you that the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. There have been a number of specific reservations about the failure of these tasks, about the smart quarantine, how it works and so on. I will not comment on that, but I would focus on one point in the resolution just from 4 June, which says that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to provide information to the public at regular and predetermined intervals, in a clear and factual manner, in an adequate quantity and systemically for all the public groups concerned. This resolution had its reason and reason not to create chaos, so that the public would not be alarmed, so that the public would be informed and understood. It seems that the government did not implement this resolution very much, and in the case of the coronavirus situation, it was rather chaos. The reason may also be because we have a government, but we have a government with a prime minister who, instead of contributing to peace, helps this chaos itself. Consider an example. At the moment when the Minister of Health Vojtěch declared the re-introduce of drapes, how did the Prime Minister react? Did the Minister of Health ask what reasons led the Ministry of Health to implement such a measure, or did he respond to public opinion? In particular, I witnessed one day when the Minister of Health Vojtěch announced the introduction of masks and the Prime Minister at one exhibition not only that in his three-minute speech he first slandered Members, i.e. government Members, and then slandered the MEPs of the Czech Republic, i.e. his members of the ANO movement, and finally stated that the drapes that Vojtěch had introduced were actually crap and that he would make sure it was different. Well, what did the audience do? What did the present hunters, beekeepers, fishermen do? They applauded him enthusiastically. And I think that's exactly what's causing the chaos and the confusion in people, and there are other significant consequences. I would have assumed that the government and, above all, the Prime Minister would be a guarantor for citizens, a guarantor for stability, and I would have expected a clear plan. And what happened to us during the holidays? First, the Prime Minister calls for us to spend our holidays and our citizens to spend their holidays in Bohemia, that it is the best thing to do, and he himself goes abroad on vacation. Let's make him happy. On the one hand, of course, the Prime Minister also refuses to go for tests if he is in contact with an infected person, but others must, and even quarantined, for such tests. So I'm asking: is this the Prime Minister's right approach? If he was an ordinary citizen, I still understand, but he's our prime minister and he should set an example for our citizens, but he's still acting like a papalist. And you know what that means? The papalas is inconclusive, so I apologize for using an inconclusive term, an inconclusive, slightly pejorative term for an individual who has formally considerable powers but who does not use this position in accordance with the generally defined basic requirements foreseen in the performance of the function. And yet another meaning is that the papalas is a functionary blabbermouth. [[17.50 hours]] So I would have assumed that our Prime Minister would be a representative of our government, as prime minister of our government, to actually make sure that the government is a guarantor of stability and that the government in such a critical situation has a clear plan of how our citizens should behave in order to give a clear signal. That is why we are joining the resolution, and we are also proposing that it be activated - and therefore we also call on the Prime Minister to activate the Central Crisis Staff, so that the resolution could come to that effect that the government will inform the public at regular, predetermined intervals in a clear, factual, proportionate and systemic manner for all the public groups concerned, and not, as I said, that we will have a Prime Minister who behaves like a papalasist. And now I would like to ask questions to the Minister of Health, as follows. Minister, from a number of municipalities of the first and second types, i.e. those of smaller, not municipalities with extended scope, there are demands that mayors be informed of the number, not of names, but of the number of people infected, of the number of people in quarantine, and that they should also be informed in advance, at least at a minimum in advance, of what measures will be initiated or implemented. The reasons are obvious. The mayors of these small municipalities need to be informed as to how the situation is being handled and, where appropriate, be able to respond or prepare themselves for a threat that might occur in the event of an increase in the number of infected. We have prepared a bill that says that sanitation stations must inform not only municipalities with extended scope, but also municipalities of the first and second types, i.e. the smallest ones, about the number of infected. I was intrigued by your ministry's comments, when you basically didn't leave it dry on the proposal, but at the end of the comments you talk about the need to prepare such a law, but that it must be a government law. So I just want to ask if you would still consider the possible support of this proposal, and in this sense we will also propose a resolution on the obligation to inform those municipalities of the first and second types. This is one issue concerning the information of municipalities. And then I'd have a question about testing when there are cases - and please, whether you could either confirm it or deny it to me, and I'd like you to disprove it - when people went to testing, registered, but after a long wait they didn't last. And what was their surprise when they received the test results with negative results, virtually. have been notified that the tests have been carried out and have been negative. I'm asking if it's true that something like this can happen, if it's isolated cases, if it's rumors, and if it couldn't be some kind of system failure, because it can, of course, inspire mistrust. So I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u39	I would like to thank you and ask you to come forward with the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate, Madame. In the general debate, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak, but before that, I have two technical, factual points. The first is Mr Jan Birke and Mr Marian Bojko will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm only to the previous speaker, Mrs Kovářová, by your means, of course. I mean, and it's very good because we have about two weeks in our emails information within the ORP as to what the complete ORP looks like in terms of positive tested, respectively. as regards positively COVID-19. There's no problem at all, and believe me, they're getting threes, I'm assuming primaries, and there's no problem at all if one of the twos or ones, of the mayors, asks for this information. I would give it to him without a problem, even though it is recommended not to distribute the information. But for the mayor of the first and second degree, of course, I'd like to give that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u41	Thank you. Mr Marian Bojko, Mr Stanislav Blaha and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared from the post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u42	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I also have a question as to how Mr Birke asked the Minister for Health. There's one thing I'd like to ask him. I am interested in his opinion on the situation with regard to Coronavirus in Belarus, when Alexander Lukašenko rejected actually the recommendation, or almost the regulation of the World Health Organization, to take the same measures as we did here in Central Europe. He turned it down and said he'd just beat the coronavirus with vodka, sports, and nothing... [[Reactions from the O.R.]] Well, thank you. And he's not gonna close anything. Their covide mortality results are actually the same as ours when we actually crippled the Republic at 60 cases per 100,000 inhabitants and closed the Republic. And it didn't happen in Belarus, they worked, they went to school, they played hockey. They're exactly the same. And there's a fact that the infection in the numbers is much higher, but the mortality rate is the same as here. That's one thing. The second thing is that, in fact, we crippled the Republic at 60 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, a pandemic was declared. And the flu epidemic is reported to be at 2,000 per 100,000 inhabitants, and the mortality rate is much higher. People die of cancer, embolism, stroke, but they just die of covid, that's what the statistics say. So what I'm really interested in is your opinion on Belarus. And let's not get too political about this, because I'm convinced from the information that they're not faking the data. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u43	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Blaha and his two minutes for a point of fact, Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I only respond to Mr Birke through Mr President. It is not true that the Mayors of the ORP receive information on a regular basis. It's not true. Last week, one single e-mail came in saying that the data sets are still incomplete and that at least this way by e-mail some of the mayors received this information. So it's not true that they're walking regularly, it only came once, and with an apology that it's just still not tuned out and that they're sending it through an e-mail. [[Objection from the O.R.]] Well, that's true, I can show you the e-mail, and of course we can keep talking about it. One single email with data, plus there are no names of municipalities, all of which are just numbers according to statistics. So that still needs to be decoded so that we can even get a sense of it. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u45	Thank you. Please don't yell at each other. If you have anything, please sign in as Mr Birke is registered with a factual remark, but Mrs Věra Kovářová will also be prepared by Mr Birke. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u46	I would also like to respond to my colleague Birke. In response to our bill, the Ministry says it's administratively demanding. But imagine that these mayors are supposed to be on the phone now and they're gonna be calling you at the ORP. Wouldn't it be easier if hygiene just sent out the information to everyone? It's easier than that. So we're going to distinguish the ORP and then the municipalities of the first and second types? Why? They're the same self-government. So I think it's easier for hygiene to immediately transmit the data to individual communities when it's updated. And it doesn't matter if it's an ORP, a one or a two. So in this case, the burden that you might have as an ORP, that someone will keep calling you, I think it would be removed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u47	Thank you. Mr Birke and his two minutes for a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u48	I think it's a completely useless debate. However, for your information, I have an e-mail here as I show it here. [[He's pointing to his cell phone.]] It's the exact e-mail that came in. It's just, at the speed of the outputs, from data sets, epidemiological characteristics of the ORP municipalities in a given week. It's here for the ORP Náchod. I can say the number, of course, but I don't want to say it, because that's information that's not something that's fundamentally public. I just want to say that it needs to be told truthfully. And a colleague, by your means, we normally communicate with twos and ones, that's common practice. Let's not make it anything that's minimal. I normally communicate with A's and B's, which is my duty to give them information from the administration's performance, etc. So this is a marginal issue for me. But if you insist, please. I'm just saying, to a certain extent, it can just... well, it can just burden the hygiene activity. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u49	So, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u50	I don't think this debate is useless. In any case, the Minister might answer that question if they are not considering dealing with it this way. And I don't think we want to burden hygiene. And I think it can also be generated and prepared by simple software to send it so that the administrative burden on hygiene is as small as possible, but I'll leave that to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u51	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec - so far the last one registered with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u52	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues. So here I would respond to my honourable fellow Member and Mayor Birke, through you, of course. I don't think there's any point in saying he got, you didn't. I certainly am not one of those who would do opposition here at all costs. And I'll say he didn't. If the e-mail is going somewhere, it's not me. And I'm not the only one. It's just the problems of getting that information that just persist. Let's just say it's a problem. I believe it's going to set up in the near future, so it's going to go all the way right. And I definitely confirm that the third-type municipalities are obviously helping the municipalities, the ones and the two, it's normal. We've been doing this the whole time of the crisis, so I don't see any reason why we wouldn't do it anymore. But let's not argue, there's just the problem. I guess it really doesn't go all the way. This may be due to the fact that some of the health authorities simply work better in this area, some worse. It's more information that should, I'd say, stimulate more activity in this area so that we have the overviews. But it's certainly not something that's essential to prove to ourselves that someone is a coalition and someone is an opposition. It's definitely not meant to be. And I'd love it if that information would just serve to improve the service, improve it so that we can actually get the information more regularly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u53	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak, which I give with this word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u54	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sure we agree that we are facing a huge challenge - dealing with a global pandemic like the Czech Republic. So there's no point in pretending it's a simple situation for the government. Nothing, frankly, is certain. I'd almost say there's only one thing for sure. COVID-19 does not really distinguish between the coalition and the opposition. He doesn't give a damn. That is why it is a good thing that we are here in the Chamber of Deputies talking about really clearly setting what we have to do and working as a national team. I want to say what people, parents, teachers, teachers, non-teaching workers, but certainly other workers of all kinds of occupations, and what they expect from us. I don't think I'm the only one who's filled with requests like this in an e-mail or on social media. It's very simple. People want an honest game, they want to know what possible scenarios are involved, they don't want to spread panic, and they just want to know how ready we are and what happens when... what happens when B, and what happens, God forbid, if it gets worse, and that we just know what we're gonna do. It's as simple as that. I would like this debate to contribute to this today. I also want to comment on this as a lawyer who I overheard in the past few weeks, when it seems to me that citizens and citizens are also confusing the establishment of a Central Crisis Staff with an emergency situation. Boo. So I must say that no one I know, even in this honorable Chamber of Deputies, wishes to repeat the emergency. I think it's scary for all of us to have hair on our heads, that the emergency would happen again. But colleagues and colleagues, this is not about the Central Crisis Staff. The central task force, frankly, is quite independent of who is in control, which we have here for years and decades because we have trained firefighters, captains, mayors, policemen, paramedics, where everyone knows, has been rehearsed, years and decades, what to do, why it has to do, what to do, what to do when... And that is why it is a good idea to consider the establishment of a Central Crisis Staff at the moment, so that professionals can work and that we are prepared to respond to the citizens for what happens when... So, so many of my comments to the debate and I believe that, as COVID-19 does not distinguish the opposition and the coalition, we too will not distinguish this in the fight against covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u55	Well, thank you. No one is electronically logged in, Mr Radek Rozvoral is logged in. So I give him that word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the government, if we are talking about the COVID-19 epidemic, I do not want to cheaply attack the government because the situation has not been easy. On the other hand, there are many unforced mistakes. If I wanted to describe the criticism of the government in one word, it would be the word inconclusive. The so-called traffic light was supposed to work. But now national measures are being introduced. In the district of Vsetín there are currently 17.5 active cases per 100 thousand inhabitants, while in Prague 173. So what's the point of a traffic light when national measures are introduced anyway? This is not a conceptual solution. Furthermore, it is obvious that health professionals are not able to keep track, and the smart quarantine project is not working. Let's hope that the statistics are already credible so that Winston Churchill's words don't apply again, that he believes only the statistics he fakes himself. In our view, above all, the most vulnerable groups need to be protected. At the beginning of the epidemic, Minister Vojtěch said there was enough drapes in the warehouses. It wasn't true and we had to import the drapes from far away China and people had to sew them at home. I repeat, it is crucial to concentrate on the most vulnerable groups, because the current number of hospitalized and the number of deaths has been relatively low compared to the beginning of the epidemic. The total number of infected is not as crucial as the actual number of hospitalized and the number of deceased. According to Jakub Hájek, Director of the Innovation Department of CzechInvest, the Czech Republic is already self-sufficient in the production of masks and respirators. Really? Then why is the state supplying the elderly with one respirator and five drapes? Moreover, according to infectologists from the infectious medicine society, the Czech Republic does not have enough beds in hospitals for infectious patients. The current thousand beds are one quarter compared to the situation 30 years ago and their capacity is not distributed evenly. While in 1990, the infectious department in the Republic had 4 015 beds and 40 per 100 000 inhabitants, this year there are 1 023, 10 per 100,000 inhabitants. Okay, COVID-19 may be enough current capacity, but what if something worse comes up in the future? [[18.10 hours]] Again, I remind you of inconclusiveness. If there is a much more dangerous pandemic and if they have to be hermetically closed borders, our state is unable to provide for the livelihood of the population, because we simply are not food-sustaining. The then president of the Czech Agricultural Chamber, Jandejsek, said that we are now self-sufficient in basic foods of around 58 percent. Unfortunately, our state has not long been self-sufficient in many areas and is not ready. It is because some of our politicians do not want our republic to be a self-sufficient state, but to be a colony of Brussels, Berlin, Washington and multinational corporations. We don't want that in the SPD movement. We want our country to be able to defend itself against threats to epidemiological, security, economic and migration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u57	Thank you. Next to the general debate is Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u58	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, really, very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now read in Mrs. Schillerová's Twitter account that the Customs Department has concluded an agreement with the Ministry of Health that customs will assist in tracing. No offense, they'll certainly make it. After all, in this discussion, we've said several times that whoever's on the phone on the route doesn't really have to have a proper hygiene education. Customs can handle it just as much as the cops can. But when the cops offered the same thing, they were very rudely rejected, or the resort was very rudely rejected with the words that it doesn't belong to those cops, whether they care if people wear drapes. I have a request, colleagues from YES. Don't you want to blow off the rescue monopoly? If only it worked for you, but it doesn't work for you. We here as a government opposition try to speak very factually, constructively, offer assistance in the field of both expert and legislative, but you in that government treat each other as if you were not one government. And people don't care that it's 18 days till the election. People just want to make sure that the system works and that you're able to protect public health, which you're not doing very well so far. Then explain to me, for God's sake, why cops couldn't have tracked them long ago if they were willing, but customs can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u59	Thank you. At this point, I do not see anyone enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I will ask if there is an interest in the final word by the rapporteur and the petitioner. It's not. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to address at least the fundamental things that have been said here. I'm sure there's been a whole bunch of influential impulses. Of course, I can agree with something more, something less, but thank you for the substantive discussion. I think that it was generally quite correctly guided on a material level, so thank you for that. With regard to the issue of data transmission to municipalities with extended scope, there were several contributions, we agreed with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with which we even signed a memorandum on the fact that this data would actually be passed on to municipalities with extended scope. Now, the honourable Member, Mr Birke, was showing me the straight exits he's getting from the UHIS, so it should work in that direction. If there's a problem, I'm sure the mayors can contact us. There's no problem providing the data. It is strange that it came to Náchod and not to Uherský Hradiště, but we are certainly ready to fix it and send the data. Maybe it's some kind of technical question. But we're really gonna send the data the way it needs to be. As far as the question of tracing is concerned, yes, we have concluded an agreement with Customs, although it is certainly not the gros people who are currently being trained. It's some help from about 30 colleagues, but we are currently training about 200 people. Just today, at the third medical school, tomorrow again, on Friday, they are mostly people who are from the medical school or the medical school, there are other colleagues there, so they are about 200 people and Customs are about 30 colleagues. We're happy for the help. I only asked the police that it would really be good for the police to help us primarily, which I also asked Vice Prime Minister Hamáček to do, indeed with supervision of compliance with the rules that we are introducing, because we know that it is simply not always the case and that people should actually respect the obligation to wear masks and other measures that we have put in place. I've asked the police for maximum cooperation, as well as foreign police, in terms of tracking people arriving from risky countries. So I think cooperation works very well here, and we're grateful for it. Regarding the question of tests and what Mrs Kovářová said here that perhaps someone would get a negative test without being tested, I would have to know the specific case. It's hard to respond to this in general. We need to realise that we currently have 15 thousand tests in the Czech Republic on average daily, so I find it difficult to evaluate a specific case. Of course it shouldn't happen. The result is simply to get the one who has been tested, whether the result negative or positive, as I mentioned, through the SMS message from the relevant laboratory, but I have no problem checking it out. It's hard to react. As far as the question of bed capacity is concerned, this has been done several times. I am convinced that if hospitals report properly all the data we have discussed, and it is their duty under the extraordinary measures of the Ministry of Health that we have issued, we will be able to manage the system under the guidance of Professor Černý and individual regional coordinators. In this regard, it is simply necessary for everyone to do what they have to do. There is no need to establish a priori for this particular case of crisis crew. It's a purely clinical question, and the system is set up very well, but it's really necessary for hospitals to do what they're ordered to do, as well as for the medical rescue service in all regions to join the system, which is already underway for everyone to follow current numbers and capacities. Then I think it can work very well within the organization of care and management care for patients with COVID-19. I don't think there's really any collapse of care at this point, we don't have any information that care has to be restricted or anything like that. We'll be monitoring the situation without a doubt. I'm sure the number of hospitalized cases will increase, that's indisputable. As I mentioned, the data shows that we currently have less than 4 percent of the cases in serious condition, so if the virus behaves the way it does now, we can expect similar increases in the coming weeks as part of some prediction. But hopefully we can really flatten the epidemiological curve with the anti-epidemiological measures that have been implemented so that the percentage of serious cases does not grow substantially. [[18.20 hours]] What is generally positive is that certainly at this time is not so significantly affected by the risk group of seniors. This is indeed a risk group that was hit much more in the spring during the so-called first wave, when there really was much more affected social service providers, social housing services, and this really is not the fundamental problem right now. I am not saying that there is no problem, but the risk groups are quite well protected. Therefore, even the mortality rate is relatively still low today. We'll see, of course, how this plays out. Let us hope that it will not be significant growth in some way, but of course we will monitor it on the basis of real data, which we also regularly publish. So much for the basic stuff. If we are talking about a maximum number in terms of tracing, I think Mr Kalousek mentioned it here. As I was saying, we respond to those increasing numbers of people who are newly diagnosed positively. You were talking about the $1,500 capacity, at some point, of course. Now we have to respond to the increases. And that's why, as I'm saying, we're currently training 200 more people who are entering the system to help the health stations. So the system has to be scalable, it has to be able to respond to those increases and adequately increase personnel capacity. I guess it was pointless two months ago when we had 30 cases here a day, to have a thousand people ready to call, but at this time, of course, we have to respond to the situation. We have, of course, increased capacity, but it is clear that if we are at more than 1,500 numbers of cases, we have to adapt the system accordingly and that is what we are actually doing right now. So I believe that the situation will improve in this regard. But once again, in my opinion, first of all, compliance with anti-epidemiological measures and second, the preparation and functioning of hospitals and the whole concept of patient care organisation with COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u61	Thank you. Mrs. Věra Kovářová will speak with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u62	Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, it didn't satisfy me very much, the answer. This is because you are talking here about a memorandum with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which we can welcome, of course, but the memorandum on information of municipalities is once again only about municipalities with extended scope, not about the information of the municipalities of the first and second types, i.e. the smallest ones. And I ask again whether it would be worth sending the information, for example with the support of our law, to send it directly to the municipalities from the sanitary station. And then, of course, it could be done in some way that I leave to you, so that the administrative burden of hygiene is as small as possible. And that's because, after all, this information can be sent if the numbers of infected people change, for example, automatically to the data box of the municipal authority, and not on the basis of a memorandum. This is where we hear it's not working very well, based on the memorandum, to send it to Oerpecs. And then the mayors who want to know will call each other. Those who don't want to know won't call. Or when they call the health department, of course they won't be able to reach it, and the information was given to them for that. (?) I understand, of course, that hygiene may have given them some information, but she said - just don't tell on us. So it is necessary to lay down clear rules on the conditions under which the information will go and which way. And even the smallest villages. We cannot distinguish the municipalities with the extended scope and the other municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u63	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek will speak with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u64	Thank you. Just a sigh. Minister, your answer simply made it clear that you used the word "to respond to the situation" about two or three times. But that's the crucial difference we've been talking about. You guys are just-- I'm gonna leave my guesses aside about how populist you are, but you're reactive. That means something's gonna happen, and you're just reacting, but before you can react or train a proper number of people, it's gonna run away for 14 days, and those 14 days can be critical. But that's not how you do crisis management. Indeed, this is done by preparing even the most pessimistic scenarios and preparing capacity. You said there was no point in training these people. Well, it should have. Because then, when God forbid - and it happens - that pessimistic scenario, that pre-prepared capacity is immediately used. But it has to be directed forward to some target, it must not react. There's a big difference. I'm begging you. And don't make that mistake again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u65	Thank you. I don't see anyone logged in at the moment. So I am really ending the general debate right now. I am opening up a detailed debate. I have Mr Michálek registered for a detailed debate. Please take your word for it. Then Mr. Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all want the situation not to get worse, and I would really hate for anyone to accuse us of not doing it when we were supposed to. I therefore translate the motion for a resolution under block A, which is the introductory phrase: "The Chamber of Deputies expresses thanks to all doctors, nurses, other non-medical workers, medical workers, social services workers and all other people and organisations involved in solving the current crisis situation associated with the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic and in providing care for the population." That's what I think is so basic, because when I talk to those people in the field, they really work their best, they try hugely, and they definitely deserve that recognition. Furthermore, as part of the monitoring of the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No 1162 of 4 June 2020, I present the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that 1. Since 15 May 2020, the Central Epidemiology Commission has not sat down, as a result of which the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was not fulfilled, according to which the negotiations and other activities of the Central Epidemiology Commission were to be conducted on a regular basis, and therefore again I ask the Government to carry out the activities of the Central Epidemiology Commission on a regular basis; 2. Notes that the Government of the Czech Republic has not submitted information to the Chamber of Deputies through the Prime Minister within three months on the chosen solutions and preparations for the possible arrival of the next wave of the coronavirus, as a result of which the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies according to which the Prime Minister was to submit information to the Chamber of Deputies by 4 September 2020 at the latest, and therefore again asks the Government to submit without delay information on the selected solutions and preparations for the further spread of the coronavirus in the Czech Republic; 3. the Government has partly complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to present a traffic light of pandemic alert levels; At the same time, clear and predictable steps associated with the individual stages are still not presented; 4. the Government has not complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to provide information to the public at regular and prior intervals, in a clear and factual manner, in adequate quantity and systemic terms for all the public groups concerned, and therefore asks the Government to develop and implement a strategy for crisis communication without delay so that information on emergency measures is presented by a communicative competent person at regular and predetermined deadlines, which will contribute to better awareness of the population and thus to more consistent compliance with the measures against the spread of COVID-19 disease; 5. The Ministry of Health has not responded to the comments submitted by Members 13. 8. 2020 and subsequently presented to the Health Committee on 19. 8. 2020 within a legal period of 30 days, thereby failing to comply with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to provide Members with information under applicable laws and in defined deadlines, and therefore the Chamber of Deputies repeatedly appeal to compliance with the government's legal obligations, both in the knowledge of the workload and the complexity of the Ministry's acute agenda; 6. the Government has published a draft of the National Cancer Testing Strategy COVID-19, which has provided the public with comments, which has partly fulfilled the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to present to the Chamber of Deputies a testing strategy in the event of the second wave of the Coronavirus, but has not yet been finalised by the agreed date until 30 June 2020, and therefore asks the Government to ensure without delay the finalisation of the National Disease Testing Strategy COVID-19; 7. Notes that the Government has introduced to the public a new application of eRoušek 2.0 and has announced increased efforts to spread it among the population, partly fulfilling the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to complete the concept of smart quarantine and presentation to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 June 2020; [[18.30 hours]] 8. the Government has established a portal nadalku.msmt.cz, which implements the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the processing and publication of a comprehensive support plan for distance teaching in schools; 9. the Government has prepared and published a manual for the operation of schools and school facilities in the 2020/2021 school year in respect of the COVID-19, thus fulfilling the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to prepare and publish plans and scenarios on how schools will operate in the event of possible further epidemiological threat; 10. the government has not prepared a strategy to support e-books in public libraries, as a result of which the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was not fulfilled to prepare an e-books support strategy in public libraries taking into account the new situation, and therefore repeatedly asks the government to prepare an e-books support strategy in public libraries. As you can see, I have tried to mention both those cases where the Government has complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and those cases where the resolution has not been fulfilled. So I really tried to stick to the original resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. And in the last block of C, it is called Measures to prevent the second wave of the spread of Coronavirus in the Czech Republic: The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to 1. ensure a sufficient number of backup collection points, call centre workers, hygienists and technicians to prepare the Czech Republic for a growing trend in COVID-19 infection; 2. endeavoured to increase the number of tests for COVID-19 disease so that the proportion of positive tests in accordance with the World Health Organisation Recommendation of 30. 3. has not exceeded 5 per cent in the long term because the current positive test rate of more than 10 per cent indicates insufficient test capacity; 3. publish on the Ministry of Health's website up-to-date information on current and planned test capacity and waiting time of all sampling points in order to optimise and shorten the collection time; 4. inform the Chamber of Deputies of a qualified estimate of the maximum daily test capacity in different scenarios of further development of the spread of the disease; 5. provide statistical information to the public on a weekly basis on the following data relating to disease COVID-19: a. Time between the determination of the reasons for the quarantine order for the tracing of the infected person and the date on which the risk contact of the person in quarantine with the infected person occurred, b. The period between the determination of the reasons for the quarantine regulation and the conclusive information of the person to be ordered by the quarantiner, c. The period between the conclusive information of the person to be quarantined and the conduct of the test by that person, d. the time between carrying out the test of that person and informing him of the test result; 6. Activate the Central Crisis Staff to effectively address the crisis situation related to the increased number of COVID-19 diseases; 7. inform the Chamber of Deputies of the grounds and professional reasons on the basis of which the rules for quarantine regulations have been amended in contact with persons protected by masks or mouthpieces, and of the impact of this change on the level of risk and safety of the population, in particular for the elderly, for whom COVID-19 is more risky; 8. develop and implement the sampling site methodology in order to reduce as far as possible the possibility of the disease, both for persons tested and for the personnel of the sampling centres; This methodology shall include the use of information and communication technologies in such a way that it is not necessary to obtain on-site contact information from each tested person, allow online payment and unification of the website of the sampling sites using a single registration form; 9. ensure that another prevalence study of collective immunity to COVID-19 disease was carried out - the last one took place in May - and the provision of high-quality data outputs allowing further analysis for at least a wide professional public. I also discussed with Mrs Kovářová, who asked me to formulate a resolution on informing the mayors so that they would have anonymous information about the number of people infected and those quarantined in the village, and so I submit, or am reading a point that reads: 10. ensure that the mayors of all types of municipalities are informed of the current numbers of infected people and people in quarantine in the given municipality so that they can respond adequately to the current epidemiological situation. So these are designs under blocks A, B and C.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u67	Thank you. Mr Bartošek and Mr Birke are further enrolled in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I come up with two brief resolutions. The first is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the government failed to prepare the Czech Republic for the second wave of Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2." The second resolution follows on from what my colleague Michálek lectured when he asked for teaching and other points for the government to present, so we add the term: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the government to by 29. 9. 2020 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an analysis of the readiness of the Czech Republic for other possible waves of Coronavirus SARS and a set of measures to prevent the explosive spread of COVID-19 disease." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u69	Thank you. Mr Birke in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u70	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask for a supplement in the opening resolution tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Michálek, in point A of the opening resolution - The Chamber of Deputies says thank you - one more institute has been introduced to doctors, nurses, 'hygienes', and the text that has already been added. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u71	Thank you. I do not see anyone else enrolled in the detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u72	Thank you for the floor. Since I am unable to estimate how long we are going to vote, let me make one procedural proposal, in agreement with my colleague, Mr President of the ANO Group of Parliament, Mr Faltýnek, I propose that we act and vote today after 7:00 p.m. on paragraph 277. I've got a visa for the '90s. There's no problem with that from the petitioners. We'd like to do another reading. So, on behalf of two MPs, ODS and the YES movement, I propose that we vote today and discuss the one point after 19.00, and that is paragraph 277. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u73	Yes. Thank you. I've called the MPs to the O.R. I will vote on this immediately. I'll sign you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. We will be voting on President Stanjura's procedural proposal to discuss paragraph 277 after 7:00. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 74, 87 Members and Members, for 75, were not opposed. The motion was accepted. At this point, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Jakub Michálek, to take the floor and carry out the voting procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because I have been informed by some colleagues that they want to vote only for some points, I propose the following voting procedure. First of all, we will vote on the amendments that I have tabled, in the order A, B, C, with individual figures being voted separately, and with the fact that Mr Birke's amendment, which I am adopting, has been made, or if anyone is interested or insists, we can vote on it separately. But I think it's pretty obvious, basically. And then we would vote on the two proposals tabled by Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u75	Yes, thank you. We'll let the procedure vote. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of this procedure? Who's against it? Voting order number 75, 86 Members and Members signed in for 85, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. Please, we can discuss individual items of the resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u76	Thank you, Mr President. If you'd agree to that, I had a request here again to try and take it as quickly as possible. I'm not going to read the whole point because I read it in a very detailed debate, so I'm always just going to read which one. First, we will vote on proposal A, which is to express our thanks to doctors, nurses, health professionals and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u77	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 76, 86 Members and Members, for 86, were not opposed. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u78	We will now vote on block B, which is the control of the implementation of House of Deputies resolution No. 1162 of 4 June 2020 to evaluate the course of the first wave of pandemic coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies notes that - we are voting on paragraph 1, which concerns that the Central Epidemiology Commission has not sat down since 15 May 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u79	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? 85 Members registered in the vote 77, 37 for which there was no one against, 48 abstained. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u80	We are voting on paragraph 2, resolution B2, which concerns that the Prime Minister has not submitted the report he was to submit every three months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u81	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 78, 85 Members registered, for 36, against was 1. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u82	We are voting on paragraph 3, which concerns the fact that the Government has partly implemented the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the so-called pandemic traffic light.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u83	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 79, 85 Members, for 35, were against no one. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u84	We are voting on point 4 concerning the provision of information to the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u85	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 80, 85 Members, for 36, were against no one. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u86	We are voting on paragraph 5 concerning the fulfilment of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the provision of information to Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u87	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 81, 85 Members registered, for 29, against 0. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u88	We are voting on paragraph 6, which relates to the fact that the Government has partly complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the testing strategy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u89	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 82, 85 Members, for 35, were against no one. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u90	We're voting on point seven, which concerns a clever quarantine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u91	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? 85 Members voted in order number 83, for 35, and there was no one against it. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u92	We are voting on paragraph 8, which concerns that the Government has complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the development of a comprehensive support plan for distance learning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u93	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 84, 85 Members, for 34, were against no one. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u94	We are voting on paragraph 9, which concerns that the Government has complied with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies by issuing a manual for the operation of schools and school facilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u95	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 85, 85 Members registered, for 35, against 0. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u96	The last point in block B concerns the strategy of supporting e-books in public libraries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u97	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? 85 Members registered in the vote, for 31, against 0. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u98	This has successfully put an end to the control of the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1162 of 4 June 2020 and we will continue with block C, which concerns measures to prevent the second wave of the spread of Coronavirus in the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies asks the government, firstly, to cover a sufficient number of backup collection points, call center workers and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u99	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 87, 86 Members signed up, for 38, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u100	We are voting on point 2, which concerns the government's efforts to increase the number of tests so that the proportion of positives does not exceed 5%.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u101	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 88, 87 Members entered, for 29, against were 2. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u102	We are now voting on point 3, which concerns the publication on the website of current information on the current and planned test capacity of waiting times for all sampling points, in order to optimise the use of the network.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u103	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 89 registered 88 Members, for 35, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u104	We are now voting on paragraph 4 concerning information from the Chamber of Deputies on a qualified estimate of the maximum daily test capacity in various scenarios for further development of the spread of the disease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u105	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 90 registered 88 Members, for 38, there was no one against. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u106	We will now vote on point 5, which concerns the provision of statistical information on the basis of each regional health station on a weekly basis on times for decisive events.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u107	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 91 registered 88 Members, for 34, against 5. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u108	We will now vote on paragraph 6 concerning the immediate activation of the Central Crisis Staff to deal effectively with the crisis situation related to the increased number of COVID-19 diseases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u109	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 92, registered by 88 Members, for 42, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u110	We are voting on paragraph 7 concerning the information that the Chamber of Deputies should receive. These are the documents and expert opinions that have changed the rules for quarantine regulations in contact with persons protected by masks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u111	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 93, 89 Members signed in for 33, versus 1. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u112	We will now vote on paragraph 8, which concerns the sampling methodology, so that people do not become infected with each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u113	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 94, 89 Members signed in for 30, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u114	We will now vote on paragraph 9, which concerns ensuring that another prevalence study on collective immunity against COVID-19 disease is carried out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u115	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 95, 89 Members signed in for 37, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u116	We will now vote on paragraph 10, prepared by Mrs Kovářová, which concerns informing the mayors of the municipalities of all types of numbers of infected people and people in quarantine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u117	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 96, 89 Members signed in for 41, versus 1. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u118	With this, we have settled block C of motions for resolutions and will continue with the last two proposals by President Bartošek, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that the government failed to prepare the Czech Republic for the second wave of Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u119	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 97, 87 Members signed in, for 31, against 34. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u120	The last of our votes will be on Mr Bartošek's proposal: "The House is asking the government to by 29. 9. 2020 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an analysis of the readiness of the Czech Republic for other possible waves of Coronavirus SARS and a set of measures to prevent the explosive spread of COVID-19 disease."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u121	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 98, 89 Members signed in for 39, against 1. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u122	This has settled all the amendments, and I thank you for that. And with the greeting of the "Situation is exceedingly excellent" I say goodbye to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u123	Thank you, too. That's what we've exhausted. Checking the votes. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u124	Thank you. Just for the tape screen, which is why I patiently waited for the end of the voting procedure. In voting number 75, I voted in favour. I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-004-491.u125	Thank you. With voting card number 17, President Vondráček votes. We've exhausted this point. Let's go to point number
