ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 530/ - Second Reading Under the authority of the Government, Mr. Adam Vojtěch, the Minister of Health, will once again state the bill. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u2	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to put forward a proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health. As I have already submitted at first reading and when discussing the draft law in the Health Committee, the main reason for the submission is the adaptation of two Union regulations, namely the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers. The Regulation on official controls as a whole came into force on 14 December 2019. The Czech rule of law should therefore be adapted to that regulation as soon as possible. The Public Health Act is one of the several laws to which the adaptation is being implemented. In the context of the implementation of those Regulations, certain new, in particular notification obligations for persons importing or producing materials, food contact items and some new competences for the Ministry of Health are included. In addition to the implementation, the Act on the Protection of Public Health and the Act on Specific Health Services identified provisions relating to state health surveillance in the field of public health protection, the application of which in practice was assessed as problematic. In the field of health protection at work, adjustments are made, with the aim in particular of reducing administrative and economic burdens on business operators. For example, it is possible to submit, within the framework of the categorization of work for physiology factors of work for work that are risky, professional evaluation carried out by an authorized or accredited person instead of costly measurement. In addition, the duplicate and time-consuming procedure for drafting and discussing text, written rules on safety, health and environmental protection is removed. At the same time, amendments are proposed to follow-up to the ongoing legislation on the protection of the health of workers, in particular when working with chemicals and mixtures, both at national and international level. The proposed legislation also includes a related amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, as amended. As always, when discussing the new Public Health Act, there is a fundamental and fundamental discussion about the compulsory vaccination contained in the Act. In this context, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Health considers it necessary to remain on the basic principles of vaccination, i.e. the maintenance of compulsory vaccination as set out in current legislation, especially because of the maintenance of the vaccination population, which is currently dangerously decreasing. The draft law was discussed by the Committee on Health and the Committee recommended that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal tabled brings the Czech rule of law into line with the Union's regulation. This would, of course, affect the obligations arising from membership of the European Union if it was not accepted. I believe you will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. The proposal at first reading was ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee, and we have the committee resolution at our disposal. These are House prints 530/1 and 530/2. And I am asking the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, who was Mrs Olga Richterová, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will just briefly sum up that we discussed the bill at the 54th meeting of the Health Committee. It was on 8 January this year. The committee resolution is available as House press 530/2. The point is that the Committee has not adopted any amendments and recommends that the bill be adopted. In this way, I think, can be summarised briefly in the news report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u5	Thank you for your information on the Committee on Health. One more apology before I open the general debate. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting from 17:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. I am opening a general debate. Mrs Věra Adámková will be the first to speak, Mr Kamal Farhan will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words in this general debate, after which it will be clear why we tabled an amendment. I consider this law to be very important and very important to our entire society. From this terrain, which we know very well, it follows that the role of the chief health care professional in health establishments and the status of hygiene itself is a very important task. Unfortunately, we do not currently have quite clear procedural things set up somewhere in sanitary services, and this is not, of course, a good thing. This is not just about the infectious risks, but it is about the overall grasp of hygiene, where hygiene of work, school hygiene, child hygiene, etc. also includes. So, of course, the scope here is absolutely wide. Based on these experiences, based on experience from the field where it began to show that the public perceives hygiene as something complementary, less valuable, so unfortunately there are people in very responsible positions who do not have enough education, and unfortunately then we are in very inappropriate situations that our health care should no longer address. Based on these experiences, I would like to say with my colleagues that, of course, we would be very happy to have some clarification there. This means that only a doctor with acquired specialised competence can be the main health care professional of the Czech Republic, then appointed by the government, to its choice, appointment and appeal, of course, the provisions of the Civil Service Act and according to the decision of the Ministry of Health apply mutatis mutandis. Another thing that is absolutely necessary is to once again introduce a sanitary service as an educational service, because hygiene is intersecting with all areas, our whole life, and if you want to build or build one room, you know well that you must have an assessment of hygiene. And it would be very appropriate if he was a person who understood that. So, for these reasons too, it is of course necessary for the entire hygiene service to continue, on the one hand, by an educational process, but also by itself, to be involved in education. So it is necessary that these regional health care stations and others participate in the education of doctors, health and non-medical workers so that, of course, our health services can continue to provide very high quality services. Another thing to say is that wherever we need hygiene services, the implementation of medical activities in the protection and promotion of public health is. Public health and public health is a field that is sometimes a cinderella in our country, and that is not good, because public health in developed countries, where we belong, has a very important role to play in strengthening trends and definitions of modern medicine, especially as regards population prevention programmes. Therefore, from this point of view, it is necessary that these staff with competence are further involved in the tasks of public health authorities and are involved in the implementation of medical activities in the protection and promotion of public health. Of course, there should also be postgraduate and undergraduate education of both medical and non-medical disciplines and, of course, to be able to stand in one row afterwards, even with regard to the assessment service. Ladies and gentlemen, please, our public health is very important and is doing an important part of the good name of our medicine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u7	Thank you. Mr Farhan will now be speaking in the debate. Mr. Mr. Třešňák will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I will allow myself to briefly justify my three amendments here in the general debate, which I consider to be rather technical. The first proposal responds to changes in Union law, which occurred only during the approval of the bill by the government, and it was not possible to process them by the petitioner. This is a question of strategic noise mapping, which includes so-called. Action plans taken by the Ministry of Transport and regional authorities to protect against harmful and annoying effects of noise. The deadline for preparing the action plan is currently one year and is based on Directive 2002/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Directive of 25 June 2002 on the assessment and management of noise in the outdoor environment. The quoted directive was amended by Regulation (EU) 2019/1010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the harmonisation of reporting obligations in the field of environmental legislation, by extending that period to two years. That Regulation became effective on 6 June 2019 and it is therefore necessary to reflect this amendment into the Public Health Protection Act as soon as possible. In addition, I propose an adjustment to the transitional provision and the provisions on effectiveness, as they are currently no longer timely. The effectiveness is proposed by a floating date because, in view of the implementation deadlines, it is in the field of environmental legislation so that this period has been extended to two years. That Regulation became effective on 6 June 2019 and it is therefore necessary to reflect this amendment into the Public Health Protection Act as soon as possible. In addition, I propose an adjustment to the transitional provisions and the provisions on effectiveness, since they are no longer timely. The effectiveness is proposed, in quotation marks, by a floating date, because it is necessary for the law to take effect as soon as possible in the light of the implementation deadlines. [[The Member has read the same text twice.]] The second amendment concerns competence, which is briefly mentioned here by the Minister, for the handling of dangerous chemicals or chemical mixtures for which university education is required. Since § 44b (1) (b) of the EC Treaty does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. In addition to the specific areas of education, it is necessary to resolve the relationship with the previous diplomas, since in the field of education before the amendment to the Higher Law, which is Law No. 137/2016 Coll., there were no diplomas. I therefore propose to use a letter "or a similar university education which has been obtained by a study at a university not assigned to the field of education" - this is my extension - which has already been applied in several other legislation. That is my second amendment. The third amendment addresses the issue of the reference laboratory of natural medicinal resources. This reference laboratory is managed by the Ministry of Health under the spa law. Its existence is a prerequisite for proper care of state resources, in this case natural healing resources and resources of natural mineral waters. The activities it provides under the Republic-wide scope constitute a long-term continuous process for which it is important to ensure laboratory continuity in terms of representativeness and repeatability of results. However, remuneration for the activities carried out is not sufficient for the development and sustainability of the laboratory and only sporadically cover operational financing. As a result, for your information, there are, among other things, insufficient staffing - today there are three incomplete-time workers; technical equipment that no longer allows for independent carrying out or analysis, let alone carrying out other activities envisaged by the spa law. All activities involving the processing of economic agendas, wage agendas, safety and health protection at work, IT needs as well as legal services are carried out by an external company in close cooperation with the Health Institute based in Ústí nad Labem, which currently carries out all chemical analyses of mineral water yield, peloids and gases. For this reason, I propose transferring the reference laboratory of natural healing resources to the Health Institute based in Ústí nad Labem, with which cooperation is now carried out in close cooperation. This change should not represent any impact on the performance of activities under the spa law or on the state budget or on the state budget. these should be positive. Before I thank you for your attention, I would like to report in a detailed debate on these three amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is now Mr Třešňák's turn, followed by Mrs Brzobohatá. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u10	Have a nice evening again. Allow me to present some amendments regarding compulsory vaccination. The first one is 4065, because somehow in the original law required complete vaccination and its proof at recovery events and schools in nature has not yet been rationally medically justified, virtually. only from the discussion on the Health Committee on 8 January came some reasons, though for example. numbers that are specifically in the law, such as five days of action or a group of 25 children in the class, I still consider numbers fired from the table. However, the main difference between the recovery event and the school in nature was discussed here, it is the same, identical and homogeneous group of children who spend the rest of the school year together in the classroom, so this led us, in addition to Amendment 4065 and to a compromise proposal that releases the obligation only for schools in nature, and that is proposal 4165. [[18.10 hours]] I would also like to present Amendment 4166, which abolishes the condition of vaccination for admission to children's groups and private kindergartens. At the same time, vaccination should also be newly compulsory in children's corners and maternity centres. And rather than a preventive tool to protect public health, this actually constitutes a ban on the admission of untrained children to kindergartens, and it is a kind of forceful sanction, which seems to us to be a contradiction with the school law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u11	Thank you. With priority right, President Farský will now speak, and then we will continue as the speakers are registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up with my colleague, Třešňák, who spoke of the sanction that has been abolished, which is a ban on the participation of those fully untrained in schools in nature or on recovery events. Mr Třešňák, together with others, tabled an amendment which is only slightly different from what I put into the system within a few hours. I would say that the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate addresses the same agenda, but it deals with it as a sub-group. When I say the difference, I suggest that children who are not fully vaccinated can go to recovery events and schools in nature - and that is the difference between the amendment of the group of Members headed by Mr Třešňák - so that they can record it in the medical documentation, in the health assessment of the state of the camp they are going to. Why do I suggest this? Because it's one of those sanctions that when you introduce people - and I run camps - it's really hard to understand for those who work all year round in a group that meet, meet, spend weekends together, and then find out that if the event is longer than five days and there's more than 29 kids on it, suddenly they can't go anywhere, or at least they can't go anywhere legally. The penalty is so inexplicable that it only increases the distrust of the vaccination itself. And I think that's what we're facing today, that the senselessness, the lack of consistency of sanctions, which in some cases, especially in this, is such a discriminatory bullying, is simply causing the resistance to vaccination, which then brings about the decline in vaccination. 'Cause how do you explain that if there's 29, they can go if there's 30, they can't go there anymore, even if they meet in the collective all year round and go to weekend events, so if the event's four days, they can go to it, but if they have six days, they can't go to the event anymore. That is a provision that cannot be explained. And by not explaining the medical reasons, it just makes you feel that there's disproportionate pressure. At the same time, the recovery actions themselves have a positive impact on both children's health and social inclusion. And that's the only way we're gonna scare them out of the collective. So we don't get the wrong idea here and move this debate on mandatory vaccination issues. This is not a proposal for optional vaccination or any dilution. The duty remains, even the sanctions that they can get, of course, but all I suggest is that it is not from my point of view and the point of view of the meaningless sanction that says you can do anything, but you can't go to camp or school in nature, because it is a sanction that only hurts the concept of vaccination itself. Thank you for your attention. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u13	Thank you. In the debate, Mrs Brzobohatá will now speak, Mr Válek will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to my two amendments. One is about spreading infectious diseases. The purpose of the Public Health Act is to protect and promote the health of the population and its groups, including health workers. My proposed amendment better defines the conditions for the protection of health workers against disease, allows the HIV test to be carried out without the consent of the patient in case of professional exposure or injury and brings the patient's information duty to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms into line. The amendment does not disturb or restrict or otherwise regulate the patient's information obligation as defined in Act 41, on health services, which remains fully preserved. Now, the other proposal - it's a meningococcal vaccination. I didn't make any preparation here, because it's a subject that concerns me personally, because unfortunately here for the most insidious bacteria that even exists in the world, when it hits, when its first symptoms show up, sometimes it happens that within 24 hours a person dies, let there be five doctors with him. So it's actually an amendment that makes it possible that moms of children within one year can keep it as optional vaccinations, they won't have to pull money out of their pockets, but they'll have kids vaccinated for free. So I hope that you will all support me in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Válek will now appear, Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the legislation that moved vaccinations in the Czech Republic changed in 2012, which is a good thing. Now, if I remember correctly, in 2015, the Ministry of Health adopted a five-year action plan to increase vaccination, this year it will end. But if there's an analysis of the five years, then the inoculation, even though the action plan is certainly being implemented in previous governments, is dropping rather than rising, we know that in some categories. So the action plan didn't really work. He'll be evaluated next year, I suppose. It's probably not the mistake of the current minister, but there will be some evaluation of the action plan. The Ministry, even if it isn't in the action plan, has taken some positive steps. The positive steps are that we have voted to compensate those who have complications caused by vaccination, on the other hand, we insist and enforce compulsory vaccination, and that is good, we try to inform the public that vaccination is not afraid, and we inform about the usefulness of vaccination. And all of these activities are very positive. However, there are some small things that I find not entirely logical. I would like to support the amendment by Professor Adámková to this point. I really believe that the health care professional should be a doctor. And if this field - hygiene and epidemiology - is, it is an essential field, then we should accept this change and I am intercede for this amendment. And I myself, along with colleagues from other political parties, put forward two further amendments, which are part of the four amendments. From my point of view, these amendments are rather technical adaptations. I've been trying to consult them across with experts, the Ministry of Health and others. First one's 4140, second one's 4141. Amendment 4140 refers de facto to the definition of contraindications for vaccination because the law defines permanent contraindications. The permanent contraindications are known, obvious. We, who work in large hospitals, where there are pediatric oncology wards, know a number of these unfortunate permanent contraindications. However, there is a sum of temporary contraindications that pediatricians know very well. And these temporary contraindications are legitimate temporary contraindications to vaccination. Unfortunately, the law defines it - permanent contraindications. And then children who have this temporary contraindication are not accepted in kindergarten, they cannot attend schools in nature. [[18.20 hours]] I do not consider it logical to redistribute this between permanent and temporary contraindications when children with permanent contraindication can participate in these activities, they can go to kindergarten, and children with temporary contraindications whose parents do not refuse vaccination cannot participate. I do not consider this to be happy, and therefore my - or our amendment, I dare to formulate it this way, our amendment essentially releases the word 'permanent contraindications' and leaves the word 'contraindications'. We believe that this will solve a number of unfortunate situations that are taking place. In doing so, we believe that our pediatricians are the best and most qualified to assess whether or not the child has a contraindication to vaccination, and if they say that the child has a contraindication to vaccination, it should not be denied to the child in order to go to kindergarten or school in nature for the time that the temporary contraindication lasts. It is therefore Amendment 4140. The second amendment - the first two introduced by colleague Třešňák - concerns a de facto group of children who were vaccinated with pentavaccine, which did not include hepatitis B vaccination. And it's a problem for these kids because they don't have hepatitis B vaccinations, they're involved in activities in the school team, and it's not entirely logical, at least from my point of view, as a doctor, because hepatitis B is transmitted by blood or sexual intercourse, and it's very, very unlikely that this transfer would happen. This means, from my point of view too, it is rather a technical modification, a minor technical modification, which seems to be minor, but it can make certain parts of the population much easier to live and visit the school. Again, there is no restriction on compulsory vaccination, there is no breakthrough in compulsory vaccination, I would like to emphasise this again, it is not in any of the amendments, but the aim of our team is clear - to increase vaccination of the Czech population and to increase it by reducing the concerns and minor errors that are in legislation and which parents unnecessarily stress out. These two amendments are similar in this category to those of colleague Třešňák. I would ask you very much for your kind acceptance of these amendments and their support, and this is the end of it and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Petr Pávek, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, happy New Year's Eve. It's the first time I've seen you. I would briefly follow up on my previous speakers. I believe that almost all the amendments, as they have been mentioned here today, deserve support, whether they are qualified or they are legislative deficiencies, and then there are amendments on that side to prevent the bullying of certain selected children, by virtue of their parents on certain occasions. In my opinion, it's becoming a drone in the pursuit of other people's interests, and that's not a good thing. Let me give you a few examples. The first is - you won't hear anything from me right now against the vaccination and inoculation of the population, even though most of you know my point of view. Let's just stick to the fact that we want the population to be vaccinated. Let's just stick to the fact that vaccination is as useful as it looks. Let us stick to the fact that he protects those who have been vaccinated. But you, especially you doctors, know that there is a responsible need to approach each child separately, that vaccination plans should be provided, that not every child can just walk away with hexavaccine, that it can trigger just different counter-reactions, contraindications, etc. In such cases, if a child is not completely inoculated, I think it's bullying, and it's not justified. If the vaccination is really so protective, then the other children and their parents have nothing to worry about. These kids are together all the time anyway. We have absurd situations here where, for example, in kindergarten, we penalize the kindergarten for accepting a child who is not inoculated or completely inoculated as the law requires today, and then two months later, we send him to first class in a school where it no longer plays a role. Likewise, the exclusion of these children from camps, various events, schools in nature, reconditional stays is simply bullying. And especially then - on this occasion I remember those happy moments of my childhood when we went to scout camps, when we just dug up a latrine, when we weren't bound by such strict hygiene regulations, which make it basically a hotel stay today when we were cooking in one boiler and then we ate from it when we drank water from the well and drove it in pots. Today, in many ways, I think the hygiene regulations have gone wrong, basically, something that prevents the original purpose of, for example, being in the community of children, camps, nature, sort of the normal one, which is just nice in life. And it just makes it a paper war, and there's a lot of bullying going on. I don't think it's appropriate and it's not right. Then there's another category, and it's private kindergartens. There I believe it comes directly to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. And that's one thing when the state is demanding, even in a bullying way, for example, by vaccinations in establishments that finance and which are organized under it, and another thing is, if we have a private entity here that someone starts up, and at that point, it's basically a bullying that goes into lawlessness, because we're determining a business entity how to behave, how to accept a child, how to fine someone. This is totally unacceptable. So that's a special category between kindergartens. Where the kindergarten is set up by someone as a private entity, as a business matter where they need not worry, there is no hierarchy of those authorities, whether they are setting up cities or just regions or states, where I think it comes directly to the constitutional order of this country. But I also want to ask you for all those parents and their children not to be excluded from the collectives, to support basically all those amendments. As they said here, I believe they lead to an improvement in the model that landed here from the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Two apologies. For health reasons from 17.00 to 19.00 from today's meeting, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes and also for health reasons from 18.30 to 21.00 the President Vít Rakušan apologizes. With a factual point, Mr Jiří Bláha is signed up and Mrs Richterová is signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u20	Serious colleagues, colleagues, I'm really not gonna hold you up, just quick. We're talking about vaccinations, but I haven't heard here that we're talking about the obligation to re-insect all foreign workers who come to us for work, and you know that lately, I don't know if you know this, but I'm definitely meeting it today and every day, even my employees have been sick with black coughs, because it's just a matter of being very small east of us. And today we're talking about whether to re-inoculate or inoculate children or not, but from abroad, people who aren't vaccinated regularly come here to work. And I think that's a serious problem that we might be able to tap and solve in the course of the vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u21	Thank you. Mrs Richterová in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u22	Thank you for the floor. Almost everything has been said, including the idyllic time of our childhood, whether it was 25 years ago as it was with me or 50 years ago. It's just always been greener. But with the washing in the stream, it's true. You just can't do that at camp today. And yet it makes it harder, the binding regulations and everything related in many other areas. I believe that here at this debate we are simply at the moment when we are looking for the right peace, and that the really very small amendments that my previous speakers have presented are purely about some correction - I would say excessive - hardness of approach, excessive gladichshalting. I'll just poke out what's going on. The point is that today only children who, in the event of complications, have the legal opportunity to go to preschool facilities or to go to school in nature or to camp for more than five days have the complications such that this results in permanent contraindication to vaccination. Again, quite logically, as Professor Válek explained, it is quite logical that if there is a temporary contraindications, it should just suspend the obligation of full vaccination temporarily for that duration. And we don't have this completely logical thing in the law today. The amendment allows it to be introduced. And I ask you very much to pay attention to this particular amendment. Also, from a medical point of view, it's been explained again, we're very, very strict on the obligation of hepatitis B. Again, it's the transmission of blood, sexual intercourse. It is highly unlikely to spread among young children. And those parents who vaccinated their children with pentavaccine, their children are missing just one of those nine mandatory vaccines. And they still don't have a chance to legally go to a preschool facility or go to camp. I don't think such rigor makes any sense. And all of a sudden, boom, preschool year strikes, and everything's fine. He hits his fifth or sixth birthday, the child has to go first class in a year, and in that compulsory preschool year he no longer looks at the fullness or incompleteness of the vaccination. I'm just asking you, fellow Members, to consider whether this makes any logical sense to you. Here are the two things - the possibility of moving the vaccinations due to temporary contraindications and the possibility of choosing pentavaccine, 5-vaccine instead of hexa-, hexavaccine, not having hepatitis B. I really believe that if it causes something, it's just an increase in parents' trust that this state behaves logically and predictablely. And one last thing. I'm not a paramedic, but I represent the voice of parents of little children here in the House, parents who simply don't know why the rules are set the way they are, why, if the action lasts within five days, if there are 29 children on it, their children maybe incompletely vaccinated, and I'm just talking about the pentavaccine, maybe they can miss it, and often it is, only the hepatitis B, so why, in the case of shorter, smaller actions can go, in case of longer, larger actions they can't go. They're asking for a logical explanation again. And I didn't find it anywhere from our state, from the Ministry of Health. Why these boundaries, why these restrictions? That is why our amendments allow for joint stays in schools in the nature of children who are in the same class as each other, allowing the joint camps of children who attend those clubs to go on weekend trips together anyway. We think it makes sense again. And the last thing I'd like to stress. Parents' confidence in vaccination will simply increase when special individual care is strengthened where there are justified concerns about complications. Let me give you an example. When I was taking my feedback, I asked people about their experience, so those who may have had a more significant premature baby and were automatically sent to the vaccination center, so they usually had very good experience. And I want to beg. Do you know what's different in the vaccination center from normal traffic when you have a schedule and you go according to the vaccination calendar? The approach in the vaccination centers is very individual, very special. And that will prevent complications. So I would just ask if we could have an overview of the Ministry for the third reading as the personnel capacity of these vaccination centres is strengthened, because unfortunately it seems that the Motol in Prague is shrinking, and that is a great pity. If, in cases of major hereditary burdens, in cases of first vaccination complications, it will be possible for parents to offer these individual, highly professional approaches, so I believe that we will strengthen trust and in the finals, as well as the vaccinations that everyone here is talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u23	Have a good evening. I will look around to see if there is any other interested party for a speech in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending this general debate. I ask the plaintiff, the Minister, if he is interested in speaking with the final word. He doesn't. And the rapporteur just got off, so she doesn't. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I now have a number of Members here. We see them here on the screen. Mrs Věra Adámková will be the first to speak in a detailed debate and Mr Kamal Farhan will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in a detailed debate, to sign up to my amendment and to my colleagues, which bears the number of House document 4188, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u25	Next, Mr Kamal Farhan will appear and Mr Petr Třešňák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up here for my three amendments, which have been inserted into the system under the numbers 4154, 4155, 4156. I have justified them in the general debate and their detailed reasoning is included in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u27	Mr Petr Třešňák will now appear and prepare Mrs Brzobohatá. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u28	I will also sign up for three amendments under 4065, 4165 and 4166. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u29	Now, Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá will appear and prepare as the last Mr Vlastimil Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u30	I would like to subscribe to the House documents, to the Parliament amendments Nos 4174 and 4118. The reason message is inserted into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u31	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek now and Mr Farský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u32	Have a nice late afternoon. I will take the liberty of signing up for two amendments, namely 4141 and 4140. I have given both amendments detailed reasons and explained, so thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u33	Thank you. And as the last MP, Jan Farský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u34	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to sign up for Amendment 4072 as it is loaded in the system and as I have justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-010-010.u35	Thank you. I'll look around the hall to see if I still have any interested people to speak in a detailed debate. I don't see anybody, I'm ending a detailed debate. I ask again the final words. Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] The rapporteur? [[No.]] The Minister hesitates? No, no. All right. I'm sorry. I don't have any proposals here that we should vote on, so I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. [[18.40 hours]] Now the proposal of Members of Zdeněk Ondráček, Jiří Mašek, Ivana Nevludová, Jan Bartošek and others to issue the law on municipal police should be discussed, but I have a point here that the proposal cannot be discussed because the deadline is not fulfilled, which means that the resolution of the Committee on Security 550/5 has only been delivered today, 21. 1., at 14.19 hours, therefore the period of 24 hours is not fulfilled. So we're going to postpone the discussion of this press and we're going to go to the next press. This is a point number
