ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of CORS CoV-2 / House printing 830/ - shortened negotiations Before that, we would have been subject to § 99 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the said proposal are short reading. I have called my colleagues to the hall, but I am opening up a debate on this issue. If no one applies to the debate, I am done with the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House printing 830, in a short hearing." That was therefore the motion for a resolution. I've already called you all together. I think we've had enough time to gather, but I can still see the MPs coming, so I'll just wait... If no one objects, we will vote. I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of the fact that there are still conditions for short-term negotiations? Who's against it? Thank you. This was vote number 65, in which 101 Members and Members were registered, for 92, against no one. I note that the Chamber of Deputies has stated that conditions continue to exist, the proposal has been approved. We will proceed to discuss this proposal. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me briefly remind you of the objective of the compensation bonus Act, which is now proposed by the law. This law was passed by Parliament in a very operational regime two weeks ago, and I would like to thank everyone here for their cooperation in discussing it and approving it, because they are primarily entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, which made it possible for us to help quickly and effectively. The compensation bonus is granted to self-employed persons other than those who are involved in sickness insurance as an employee, and the condition for granting it is that the business activity of the applicant was wholly or partly prevented by current events related to coronavirus. The compensation bonus is granted at the rate of CZK 500 per day within the bonus period from 12 March to 30 April 2020 if the person meets the conditions for granting it on that date. Overall, a businessman can now receive up to 25,000. And what are the current figures from the Financial Administration? By Monday 20 April 2020, the financial authorities received almost 260 thousand requests for payment of the compensatory bonus. Since last Thursday, the financial authorities have ordered the applicants to pay more than CZK 5.2 billion in total. Thus, the first entrepreneurs received money for their account on the third day after the law was effective, which I consider to be proof that this project works very well. In view of the fact that restrictions on economic activity in relation to coronanavir continue to exist, I propose extending the period for which a compensatory bonus may be granted and thus continuing to mitigate the effects of restrictions on economic activity on self-employed persons. That is precisely the aim of the bill tabled. The draft law creates a second bonus period from 1 May to 8 June 2020, i.e. until the date on which, according to current assumptions, the termination of key measures is expected, which limit, in particular, the activities of self-employed establishments. In view of the inability to fully predict whether a part of the restrictive crisis measures will have to be maintained -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u3	Madam Secretary, I will allow myself to interrupt you and ask your colleagues in the room for more peace of mind. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. - even after that date, it is also proposed to adjust the third bonus period in which the determination of the exact length will be left to the adjustment by the Government's regulation, provided that the restrictive measures continue to continue until 31 August 2020 at the latest. The other parameters of the provision of the existing compensatory bonus, i.e. in particular, the circle of persons who may be entitled to it, as well as its amount, remain. The impact on the state budget is expected with regard to the number of self-employed persons up to 13 to 14 billion in the period of granting the compensatory bonus, i.e. 1 May to 8 June. [[17,00 hours]] I would also like to point out that representatives of the Trade and Tourism Union, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders and the Chamber of Tax Advisors have contributed to the proposal. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask for the support of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u5	Thank you. The Committee on Budgets, to which the bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 830/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Kamal Farhan, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and of any reasons for any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already said most of this. So I will just try to summarize briefly once again what is going on in this amendment. In view of the fact that restrictions on economic activity related to the emergence and spread of COVID-19 disease continue to persist due to new coronanavir, it is proposed to continue to mitigate the effects of these restrictions on self-employed persons through the extension of the period. The draft law will create a second bonus period for which the compensatory bonus is granted from 1 May to 8 June 2020, i.e. until the date on which, according to current assumptions, the completion of key measures is expected. In view of the inability to predict how long this section will continue, there is also a third period proposed and this period proposed to be adjusted as well; the third period for which it will be determined, or determined, its precise length, is left to the adjustment by the Government's regulation. However, in this respect, the Act sets a time limit until 31 August 2020, which cannot be exceeded by the Government in determining the length of the third bonus period. Other parameters of the provision of the existing compensatory bonus, i.e. in particular, the circle of persons who may be entitled to it, as well as the amount thereof, shall be retained. Now I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Budget Committee of the 37th meeting of 21 April 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House printing 830, legislative emergency negotiations. Following the opening words of Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, Mr Farhan's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations no later than 24.00 on 22 April 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that, with the Government's proposal for a law amending No. 159/2020 Coll., on the compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of coronavirus, agreed as amended by the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies; [[Law]] V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform you of this and, together with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. So that's the committee's resolution for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u7	Yes, thank you. That was the opening word. And now, therefore, the committee has proposed that we proceed with a standard procedure, i.e. a general debate. If no one proposes a different procedure, then I am opening up a general debate, I have several applications, and the first is President Kalousek with priority rights, and then I see another priority right there. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly ask you to support the two amendments, both of them tabled a broad group of Members. One concerns contributions to fixed costs and the other concerns the definition of a compensatory bonus. I've bothered you twice about the fixed costs, and I'll take the third time. The 25th program, the compensation bonus, is relatively fast and functioning - and here it is necessary to chop off the compliments of the Ministry of Finance, unlike other programs, this one works really agilely - which will provide some support for the living of self-employed people. For a living. However, it does not solve anything with a trade that was forbidden from day to day to earn, or was significantly limited to them, and they pay relatively high fixed costs for their operation, and now they have learned that the situation will last for three months. Many of them will be closed until June 8th. Of course, it is possible - and I am not subject to criticism - by order of the government in this exceptional situation to order someone to close their establishment, but it is not possible to feel responsible for the fixed costs that the person must pay during the time of closing, even if he cannot earn a crown. We discussed it several times. Madam Secretary has said many times that there is no way to quantify compensation, and I agree with her here, that would be quite badly numbered, but we are also not moving at all in the dimension of compensation. We're not even moving in terms of the entire fixed costs. We're asking for a donation. A contribution to the fixed costs. When we discussed the compensation bonus last time, we proposed 100 per cent of the rent to those who are prohibited from operating, who were day to day at zero, and 80 per cent to those who are limited. To two typical examples, hairdresser, restaurant. Hairdressing must be closed, the restaurant must be heavily restricted. That didn't work. We do not want to completely give up the idea that you would be completely indifferent to fate, to these trades, and so we ask at least for a contribution to the rent in three compromise variants. No longer 100/80, but 60/40 variant first, 50/30 variant second, 40/20 variant third. Please note that someone who pays CZK 100 000 rent, plus services and insurance, that the compensation bonus is not really the solution for him, and that if we do not contribute to the fixed costs, then a relatively significant percentage of these operations will not open up, because the Chimera thinks that someone has more than three months' reserves. It's a chimera to assume that someone in the endangered sector will lend it to him. In fact, we all know that Minister Havlíček's programs, whatever Covid's digits are, are given to those of the most endangered sectors, whether it's gastro or tourism, by the banks: we know that you're in trouble, but we're not going to help you because you're in trouble and you're doing business in an endangered sector. Well, he knows that, too, which is why he's asking for state support and he's not getting it. And if we don't contribute directly to their fixed costs to these businesses and operations, we're gonna lose a lot of them. I still want to believe that it's not a bad idea, and I'm asking you very much to at least contribute to the fixed costs. So that is the one amendment that Mr Skopeček will certainly sign up to. [[17.10 hours]] The second amendment for which I would like to ask is an amendment which has also been tabled by a group of Members and concerns one thing that I consider to be an omission. And I don't think it was the government's intention or the legislator's. At the time when the House adopted the definition of a compensatory bonus body, where it clearly stated that no one who had a job in which he had sickness insurance was entitled to the compensation bonus, there were several thousand, not tens of thousands, but several thousand self-employed people who, of good will, went to teach their specialization in one or another school for a few hours. It involves physiotherapists who work as M.E.C. and go to health schools for a few hours a month. It's about IT specialists helping a friend at a high school who doesn't have an IT teacher, so he goes there to teach him a few hours a month. It's about musicians who let themselves be talked into teaching in human beings for a few hours a month. Those are the people who do it as charity for a much lower hourly wage at that school than their hour of self-employment. They teach the young generation simply because they feel that it makes sense, what they have learned in practice where they are experts, to transfer to professional or artistic schools. Well, all of them for theirs, I'm sorry, the good news was punished for not being subject to a compensatory bonus. I think that if we have education as a priority, if we want people from practice to be willing to transfer their skills and competence to schools at all, if we want them to care about education and training of the young generation, then we just can't throw them overboard. And here we ask very much to support a simple amendment, which says that if the Ministry of Education is involved in teaching activities - pedagogical, no other - it is subject to a compensatory bonus and is entitled to the 25th. Remember, from the sick day, that part-time job at school gets an amount that doesn't get enough for a hairdresser for a week. He can't live a month for that. And it would be extremely unfair if we took it from him. So please support this amendment, which I am sure Professor Válek will also apply to. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u9	Thank you, and with another priority right, I have Mr. President Jurečka, but I assume that... Then, okay, then, please, Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to mention to this House press several important priorities of the groups of people who, in this difficult situation, deserve the support of the state and are still waiting for it. We've already talked about some of these groups here three weeks ago. I am glad that information is beginning to leak that the government is considering supporting some of these vulnerable groups. In fact, about a month ago, I spoke as one of the first ones about the fact that in this network of measures, not only do they fall into secondary activities, but small eseróčka, or people on agreements. Some of my colleagues and previous speakers have already talked about remembering in their proposals these groups, which so far have direct assistance and support, even though they are properly committed to this state - I have indeed had hundreds of responses to social networks and to the e-mail, when people have written me their specific life stories. Fifteen, twenty years they've been in business, never asked the state for a crown, not even in any grant titles. Now, virtually from one day to the next, they've lost all their income from their business and have a big problem in their homes, so at this point, they'd expect government support, state support to come quickly and efficiently. I also made a comparison here yesterday with the fact that entrepreneurs write to me that they can obtain funds in Germany or England or Canada using simple forms. In order within two days e.g. on the basis of the quartet turnover, the money, and tax returns, is released and subsequently, in the coming weeks, months, the state is discussing whether the aid will be in the form of interest-free loans, or some of the money will be left directly as a direct non-refundable subsidy. I think we're still missing this so there's a simple principle here that some amount, as in the case of the 25-year-old, will be paid out, and then it'll only need to be dealt with on the basis of an evaluation of the businessman's activity, like his history of tax returns, if it's gonna be interest-free aid, etc. I'd put a lot of effort into that. And we are prepared to support such support, because as people criticize the COVID and Antivirus program of having a slow response and possibly a high percentage of rejected applications, I have a reaction, and I want to thank you for that, for that. The 25 is paid very quickly, that people sent a request and maybe within three or four days they had money in their account. But these are finances that can't solve major problems. Therefore, in my amendments, I, too, together with other colleagues, as we agreed, propose that we remember those groups, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, again in the form of support of CZK 250 per day, i.e. half the amount against the 25, so that we can also remember the people who are on the bargains, that's what the pirát colleagues will be developing here. And I'm also putting in new support for Pendlers here. Pendlers are still forgotten. I must say that it is also a group of people who have, in fact, lost the opportunity to travel abroad to do their job. So I would very much like us not to lose this group of people, because they too have their families, their obligations, their children, and they are fighting to pay for their expenses, how to pay for the roof over their heads. The rent was mentioned here, which was commented here by colleague Kalousek. Of course, we will support his options for us, for KDU-ČSL. I think it's the right fan and different alternatives. I would like to give the rent one more variation in the amendment, which says that the state should be prepared to compensate the rent up to 70 per cent, but not more than CZK 3,000 per day. As I had the opportunity to consult with entrepreneurs here in Prague who do business in the gastro-sector, tourism, etc., so they perceive that, above all, small and medium-sized companies would be able to meet these parameters and tear them out of the biggest trouble they are in now. So that is one group of amendments. Then I would also like to mention one more form of support, which is also called for by large NGOs such as the Confederation of Industry and Transport or the Chamber of Commerce, and this is the possibility of deferring payment of VAT to entrepreneurs, traders, companies towards the state. We are in a situation where, these days, there is also an obligation for quartets for the first quarter, and I think it would be fair for the state to say transparently here: Entrepreneurs, this year as a state we are giving you the possibility to defer VAT by up to 12 months. It is not forgiveness, but it is an option to postpone by law, not if the financial authority considers it appropriate to comply with the businessman's request. What is also important is that we propose that at a time when such a measure would be taken so that the amount is not remunerated. And if this amendment did not pass, I have a separate amendment which, in the event that these entrepreneurs are granted in the current regime, so that what they did not do to the state does not cost them 8%, as this is now the case. And then, of course, I'm also making a proposal to forgive the road tax this year. Those who have already paid for the first quarter would have been transferred to them by next year. Because I think it's not okay, and I think it's immoral for them to stand in this situation, where, moreover, most of the cars and the means for which entrepreneurs pay the road tax are often in their backyards, so that we don't take the road tax as a state. And it is simple, in both cases very effective and fast support without complicated administration, without checking any requests etc. The state immediately leaves this money to the cashiers who need it most. [[17.20 hours]] So these are some of the measures that I would like to propose for this press, some for only KDU-ČSL, some in agreement with colleagues from opposition parties. We think that the state and government could consider supporting this cause, because as I have tried to justify it, these measures are very fast, effective, across-the-board and will help the smallest, medium-sized, but even the larger companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u11	Thank you. And now Vice-President Kubíček with a procedural proposal, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, a short procedural proposal. I propose a limitation of the speeches for Members for five minutes in general and in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u13	Yes. Thank you. So that's a five-minute speech limit. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. [[Sounds like a gong.]] However, I will wait for more of us to arrive. For those who are coming, I will repeat that we will vote on the reduction of speaking time to five minutes in both debates. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. When the number is settled and climbs to a sufficient level, we will be able to vote. [[For the time being, only 58 Members are registered.]] I have a few options now. And other Members are coming, so maybe this will work. However, if the number is not sufficient, I will have to call a break, or the Vice-President will have to withdraw his proposal. And it seems that enough Members have arrived, so I will not interrupt the meeting. But I'm asking everyone to sign up. Before I begin the vote, for those who have arrived only now, I will repeat that we will vote on the reduction of speaking time in both debates at this point for five minutes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 66 vote is signed by 76 Members and Members, for 58, against 5. The limitation of speaking time has been accepted. So now the speakers without priority rights, to which it has now come, will have a limited period of time. Mrs Šafránková is the first to prepare Mrs Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed colleagues. Let me briefly present the amendments that I am proposing under the SPD. As of the second bonus period, i.e. from 1 May 2020, I propose that, for self-employed persons who had to fully discontinue their self-employment during the period beginning on 12 March 2020, as a result of the Government's crisis pandemic measures, the amount of the compensation bonus was CZK 800 for each calendar day of the second and potential third bonus period. [[to:]] The main reason for the proposed adjustment is the strengthening and fairness and address of the effectiveness of aid to self-employed persons whose business has been crippled or suspended and which had to close down their establishments. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of my second amendment is to eliminate discrimination against workers, in particular those working on labour agreements, work activities and also shorter part-time employment, in the approach to drawing a compensatory bonus. Those persons have been excluded until now from the use of an emergency infirmary and are clearly and for no reason the worst in terms of assistance in crisis times from the state. Therefore, I suggest that the compensation bonus can also be drawn by employees with a gross monthly income of less than CZK 14,600, which is also the minimum wage limit, so that it is clear that we are aiming at those self-employed persons for whom employment is necessary for various reasons, as is the case for students, old-age or disabled pensioners who are already entitled to benefit from this bonus. The longer the emergency measures, the more appropriate the aid must be and aim for the most affected and needy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u15	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, and Mr Munzar will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let me present the two amendments that we are proposing for STAN together with other colleagues. The first amendment extends the range of entities entitled to a compensatory bonus. The government's proposal completely ignores the CFI, which pursues self-employment as a secondary activity and at the same time are employees, thus having an employment relationship and it is their main activity. The fact that they are employees and at the same time pursue self-employment as collateral does not mean and does not determine the activity from which they have a higher income. This can often happen when a higher income comes from self-employment. As a result of the announcement of the emergency situation and other emergency measures, there could have been a situation where these traders lost both income from employment and from their business. And these are, of course, people in the field of sports, artists, academics, gastronomy and many other fields. For the reasons set out above, it is unacceptable for a self-employed person to be excluded from the scope of the Compensation Bonus Act in the context of crisis measures and completely neglected by the self-employed who pursue their business as a secondary activity in the performance of employment. This proposal corrects the fact that these persons could get into serious financial problems, as their income will be significantly reduced only to income from employment. This is the first amendment. And the second amendment regulates the bonus period. We have already submitted a similar proposal to Parliament's 808, where we said that the bonus period could last until the end of the emergency measures, so it could be said that this was such a slippery bonus. Madam Secretary said she didn't want to go on to the Chamber of Deputies. If our amendment had been adopted at the time, the Minister would not really have had to submit this press again. He is currently proposing a bonus period until 8 June, which seems insufficient to us. And it also doesn't seem entirely right for any extension of the bonus period to be done by the government's regulation. So we are adjusting the provisions where we say that the bonus period will last until emergency or emergency measures are in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u17	Thank you. And now, Mr Munzar. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, Madam Secretary. We welcome the extension of the compensation bonus for the self-employed, but the question is whether it is sufficient aid in its size, in its scope. That is why the opposition comes up with many common amendments. And I would like to imagine two more proposals for myself and for the ODS club. [[17.30 hours]] Businessmen. Today, economic operators are faced with a lack of funds. As a real push of the button, the government shut down their business, and many do not even have revenue because they do not have open establishments, but many also have minimal revenues due to a significant drop in customer demand. However, many costs and compulsory payments resulting from the business remained with them. For example, the obligation to pay VAT to the State on outstanding invoices. However, emergency measures by governments are not a classic risk of business, so further measures and additional extraordinary steps by the state are needed to, first, survive the emergency situation economically, and secondly, to not only pay the debts and liabilities incurred after the crisis, but also to buy, employ and invest again in the development of business. That's the only way our economy is going to start up again. Our society and our economy need to make the most of those entities that survive and work. And there are two more acute problems that need to be solved. It is sufficient available funds and prevention against secondary insolvency, and also certain, say, administrative demands and bureaucracy associated with existing programmes such as direct support for Antivirus, for which companies also need sufficient funds, and COVID, which, however, is an indirect support, which often leads to debt accumulation on the part of business entities after the end of emergency measures. The first problem has been addressed by my amendment, which is an alternative if the joint proposal to postpone the payment of VAT, as the colleague here has put it, through you, Jurečka, and thus the option is to postpone the VAT due for March to July until the end of this year. This means that the blackout would not have been reflected in the overall balance of the state budget for 2020, but would have secured more funds in the next few months in the business account and would have helped in their cash flow. Deferral of VAT as an effective measure recommends many economists including, for example, Koronerv. Because it is often more effective to let people make money than to make it difficult to collect and redistribute. And in today's situation, it is a question of being and not being. My second amendment extends the possibility of a compensatory bonus to micro, small enterprises with nine employees, including, for example, single-member eseros. They are often small family businesses that depend on the whole family's livelihood, or small pubs, cafes, small boutiques, etc. It is necessary to realise that the compensation bonus does not replace the salary, but it is aid for business, for the self-employed, so that they can pay their basic costs. These small micro-enterprises also have similar costs, and they are faced with similar problems, and because of administrative difficulties, or even a lack of actual resources to pay workers, they cannot practically apply to the Antivirus programme. And even if they were to receive the aid, they must still have the resources for other costs. The purpose of the aid is not to drive economic operators into debt, but to enable them to survive and develop their activities after emergency measures have ended. I therefore propose to extend the aid to these micro-enterprises as well. It's logical. If we want to keep them alive, we want them to keep jobs working again as quickly as possible, it is cheaper for the state and the taxpayer in the finals than to pay the long-term army of unemployed workers at the employment offices and not to have any tax income, no income in social and no income in health insurance. It is more effective to pass on something today than to have a long-term burden and a state budget outage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u19	Thank you. Good evening, dear colleagues. Next in the general debate will be Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as a Pirate Club, we very much welcome the Government's submission of this proposal. It is a škoda that she has not supported the opposition's proposals so that the bonus will last longer automatically, but this is also a solution that will eventually help those in need. So we certainly welcome the press as a whole, and we will certainly support it even if our amendments fail, even though we think it would benefit the press. We are making four amendments, some of them along with other parties and other Members. Firstly, the support of people who made an agreement to carry out work or to an agreement on work activities and at the same time made contributions, i.e. DPP over 10 000 and DPČ over 3 000 CZK per month. And here it must be pointed out that the fundamental counter-argument of social democracy against this press is no longer valid today, because the time has passed for companies to take money for these employees. So the deadline has expired on April 20th, and no contracts can be renegotiated. So the basic counter-argument, which sounded either from KSČM or from ČSSD, that it would be possible to reverse fictitious contracts, and the way time has progressed, this argument does not totally apply. We realize that this group should not receive as much support as tradesmen, and therefore we propose 300 crowns per day compared to 500 a day for the tradesmen's day. So this is one amendment where I ask for your support. Furthermore, we propose support for single-member eserócs under certain conditions. We also propose support for people who have a business license and a job. We want to return this to the unfortunate amendment adopted by the House last time we discussed this. We think that even those who engage in a secondary activity, but it is the dominant source of income for them, should be entitled to support. Within this framework, we have put together a compromise proposal with a number of other Members, which, at least for those who have a secondary job as a pedagogical activity, so that at least they can be supported, so that people who work as professionals in different fields and then go on a small-time course of teaching, typically in high school or in college for a few hours a week, because of that little job, do not lose the whole 25, which unfortunately is happening today. I hope at least this little thing can go through, after all, it's gonna be thousands of people who get a claim to support it. And the last amendment that I am proposing is to clarify that people are actually entitled to support if they ceased trade in panic in that March, but they did not receive unemployment aid anymore, and then they renewed it again after they had forgiven advances and a minimum assessment base and at the same time started this programme, so for people who interrupted trade between 13 March and 9 April, when this law began to work so that they would actually be entitled to the bonus in full. I'm being approached by people who are denied by the Financial Administration. We dealt with the secretary in person. She claims they're entitled today. [[The secretary at the rapporteur's desk agrees.]] So I ask at least to examine the initiative I sent her, or to support this amendment, let it be quite explicit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u21	Thank you. President Stanjura is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, members of the Government, colleagues, let me present to you two amendments. One is called an increase and one is called an extension. I think it's clear from the title what's going on. The first amendment to which I will then apply, and it is House document No. 5040, actually increases the reward in the second and third bonus periods. In the second period, which is actually 1 May to 8 May. 6, to CZK 700 per day and in the period from 9. 6. to 31. 8. if necessary, at 900 kroner per day. This proposal actually responds to the fact that, with the increasing length of activity reduction, financial losses are increasing and the burden of the CFI is growing differently than linearly. It's not always the same. With the longer the financial burden, the financial losses are just higher. From the point of view of the impact on the budget, given that the government has decided to gradually release restrictive measures, there is a presumption that a smaller number of CFIs will be asking for this gradually. That's one. [[17.40 hours]] The second amendment, which is called enlargement, and there are several, has been several amendments in this area. We're going to have a whole palette that we can choose from, and it's actually an extension of those who could ask for it from the IRS. As a support argument, before I introduce you to the parameters of the amendment, I found notice on the Financial Administration's website of the most frequent errors in the application for a compensatory bonus. The most common mistake is that people who also have jobs ask for it, and the Financial Administration explains that if they are involved in sickness insurance, that is, if they have a financial income of more than CZK 3,000, they are excluded from this application. It's an official report from the Financial Administration, and it's actually consistent with the diction of the law currently in force. The amendment proposes to change this situation in two cases. And especially the other one, I'm going to ask you to consider whether this restriction in these people is really necessary, right and moral. Firstly, I suggest that people reach the bonus, respectively. that the person whose employment income does not exceed 10 thousand per month but (b) in a job for which participation in sickness insurance is incurred is not considered to be an employee under this proposal solely for the reasons set out in Section 5 (b). (a) points 12 and 13 of sickness insurance. I'm gonna try to translate those sections into understandable language. Who also gets sick insurance according to those sections of the Health Insurance Act? These are persons who are insured as voluntary care workers, as child care persons and persons who are kept in the register of persons who can exercise foster care for a transitional period, provided that such persons are paid the remuneration of a foster child under the legislation on the social-law protection of children. I do not understand when these persons who are undoubtedly doing a public service activity, even if it is not defined in this way, but in terms of content, it means voluntary care workers and those who can exercise foster care for a transitional period under the Law on Social Law Protection for Children, so the exclusion of these self-employed persons in particular we really regard as incorrect but also immoral. I will then sign up for both amendments in a detailed debate so that we can vote on them at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u23	Thank you. I don't have anyone registered in the general debate. With priority rights, Mr. President Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u24	Vice-President, hello. Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendments have already been commented by Mrs Věra Kovářová. Let me say here before the detailed debate for the Mayors and Independents Club that, of course, we will support the proposal with which the Ministry is coming, we will also support a number of amendments, and just allow me to make one more comment on a matter that I am sorry about. We are still invited here to pull together, because we are concerned about the citizens of the Czech Republic, so that we do not throw sticks at each other. The opposition has long been called upon to do so. We have been called upon by government officials, Prime Minister, Minister Schillerová, to come up with our own constructive proposals, and we have done so. 14 days ago, the Club of Mayors and Independents suggested that after 30. 4. here existed so called. slippery support of 500 crowns a day during the closing of individual trades. We proposed this 14 days ago, and the Minister's position on our proposal at that time was negative, and this was not approved. After 14 days, the Minister will come to the Chamber of Deputies with a similar proposal, only limited in time until 8 or 9 June, but I am not sure of that particular day. We still think that this slippery support is better, which would simply be for closed establishments, but we are really a little sorry that the Minister, who is calling us to cooperate, will come up with the same proposal after 14 days. The difference is, Madam Secretary, we're gonna support this proposal after 14 days, because we've been thinking it's just right for a long time. Please, let's not act like this anymore. If you feel that the opposition is coming up with a proposal that makes sense, which clearly makes sense, when you come up with it yourself, please support us too. There really isn't time for us to fight over authorship of some concrete designs. It is time for us to help people in the Czech Republic as quickly as possible; entrepreneurs could already be sure 14 days ago, 14 days ago, that even after the date 30. 4. They will be paid 500 crowns a day if the ODS amendment passes, 600 crowns a day, because they simply have to plan their lives. For 14 days they've lived in some uncertainty, now you come up with it, we're happy to support it, but please let's treat each other a little differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u25	Thank you. I do not see anyone registered for the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask for any final words. Madam Secretary is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will be very brief because we discussed this in detail yesterday on the budget committee, and we discussed it before the 14 days or three weeks when the compensation bonus was approved. I'm not gonna argue. I don't think citizens care, our fights that they're interested in the outcome, so I'm grateful that you've made it clear that you're going to support it. I've been trying to explain why it's a concept. The case that Mr Ferjenčík was referring to is certainly entitled to a compensatory bonus. I confirmed it. I called the Financial Administration right away. They've confirmed my opinion, my Lord's answer. I just don't understand. There's no problem. If he didn't receive unemployment benefits and just interrupted and renewed again, then of course he will get the whole compensation bonus. And just so you know, I had a briefing with the CEO on Friday, and that's where I introduced, apart from the mistakes and the number of cases and the sums paid, I said, the average compensation bonus paid is some 24,000, I don't know exactly now, but almost twenty-five. That means almost everyone gets a full 25 grand. So we're also following this parameter, so there are very few cases where they're receiving a partial compensation bonus. I've named those cases. President Stanjura - there you simply have to take a position on employment, because the Financial Administration is not able to, if it has - indeed takes a solemn statement, to pay the money. He doesn't have time to check. And I am responding to other amendments that I will not support for some part-time jobs. It can't be verified, it's not in the records. They don't have any records that there's a part-time job there. And if we have Antivirus for employment and compensation bonus for the self-employed, which on the contrary - I will quote other cases again. You quoted the sickness insurance bill here. You're right, I'll quote that all those who have secondary activities, whether they're disabled pensioners, old-age pensioners, whether they're mothers on maternity leave, parents on parental leave, students, etc. So it's just a really big shot, but it had to be defined somehow. So if it's really a small employment relationship, the negligible one, as the law says, maybe I'm saying it inexactly, up to 3,000, and that's what the self-employed person is for, so he's entitled. If he has an agreement of up to 10,000 and a self-employed person, he is entitled, but then of course it is not possible and it would mean some kind of verification that we didn't want, and just each group belongs in a different form of support. We've been talking about brokers here. That means that the infirmary, the little eseroga, was approved for the negotiator yesterday this week, I think tomorrow Minister Dostálová will submit a program to the government for the one-man eseroga. We worked on it all three of us - MIT, MMR, Ministry of Finance, because of course there had to be some way to define the terms and conditions above. We had fun, it's 500 a day, too, right? I don't see the Minister now. Five-pounds a day. That means, those are the things we promised we'd make after we solved these big groups. [[17.50 hours]] That we're going twice. We didn't know at the time when we approved the compensation bonus - and I said from this place, I said that if it continues after 30 April, I said it here that we're just going to put it down. But we didn't know if the measures would end or not. That's why I'm here in this amendment, and I'm asking for the opportunity to issue a government order, and to continue with the payment, without having to go to the Chamber of Deputies for those who will actually continue, if, God forbid, they still have limited activity after 8 June. And they can be like that. The increase in money you're saying has to grow linearly, whether I understood it or progressively. Let us also take account of the fact that Minister Havlíček gradually introduced it to the government, and the government voted, and together, of course, with Minister Adam Vojtěch, the plan of dislodgement. That means there's gonna be a whole bunch of businessmen who don't need to draw any more in that whole period because they're gonna open up the business, they're gonna restore the store, and so it's gonna have some sort of run-up, and now it's just gonna be a partial. We're going in the same mode again, the Financial Administration isn't going to check it out at this stage, it just can't be done. If you want to pay money immediately, the only thing you're going to verify is that there's a formal declaration of honor with a signature, and money is just being paid. We were debating yesterday - President Kalousek suggested the payment of fixed costs. Well, it is not at all simple, because as the amendment is formulated, and we have looked at it in detail, so it does not actually indicate how the fixed costs are linked, which would specifically be so that they do not just dribble. And I had to get my... [[He's going to the material table.]] I had my colleagues pulled out, and yesterday there was an example of the Nordic model that... So the payment model in the Nordic states that I was given as an example yesterday on the budget committee, I was unable to respond because, of course... We just found him there fast, but it was too fast, so I had it processed today, so it's not so, it's always saying A, so you have to honestly say B. He is based on a very administratively demanding provision of subsidies. So far, our, the Czech bonus, their support is a bonus with a simple management system. That means, there's a very, very, very much, there must actually prove... Norway, Denmark, 40 per cent decline in sales. [[unintelligible]] Remember, when I dropped sales 10 percent in the first draft, I was almost crucified here. And I retreated. I admitted it, I retreated. We came up with a new proposal. There's 40. Then there's a very difficult number of replacements. It is used with the issue of a detailed methodology, regulations that cost, are not compensated, etc. So it doesn't pay across the board. There's some kind of support, but then they have to do a whole series of simply complex administrative tasks. So it's not like you're gonna say it in the Nordic states. They don't put it on like a treadmill. So you were the Minister of Finance, Mr President, so remember how... maybe we could learn from the time you were the Minister of Finance. So that's why I'm saying that we never said that we weren't going to apply for damages, but we said that there had to be damage, causality and, of course, caused by government regulations, and it would just have to be proven. So... I'm not saying there won't be such cases. I'm not saying it. And I'm sure we'll be dealing with them, and I'm sure those cases will be filed, and maybe they're already being filed at the Home Office. But it simply cannot be done in the way you propose in your amendment. Of course, I've got it detailed, detailed. I've spoken to the staff. And I think that's about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u27	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? He doesn't. I am opening up a detailed debate. If the proposal to limit speaking time is made in a detailed debate - we have already voted that, so I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in a detailed debate must always be justified. Members have taken the floor in order - Mrs Šafránková. Please, you have the floor. [[Member Stanjure is also reporting.]] So, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Okay. Mrs. Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u28	Well, thank you again for the floor. I would like to sign up for my two amendments, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. The first has the number of the House document 5026 and suggests that the compensation bonus should also be claimed by the CFI, which work at the same time on agreements on the execution of work, agreements on work activities and shortened part-times up to CZK 14,600 gross. The second amendment is under the number of House document 5017. It is an increase in the compensation bonus to CZK 800 per day as a result of crisis measures for the self-employed who had to completely interrupt or close their premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. And Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u30	First, formally. I report on the amendment House document 5040 and on the second amendment, House document 5041. If I understand correctly the Minister's speech, he actually says, a foster father who is also a self-employed person is not entitled to support. And a person who is a volunteer in the care service and is at the same time a self-employed person is not entitled to support. I really do not understand that I should not use Mr Ferjenčík's favourite expression "I don't care." Because it doesn't bother me or my head, but it's his face, so I'm not gonna take his dictionary so he doesn't say I copy it. Not that I criticize him. But I want to comment on how the secretary always comes in and says, "So these people don't care that we're fighting here. It's like, "we're in the same boat." The opposition will propose something, the government will reject it. And then, according to the gusto. Pirates say the government has inspired itself. I say she stole it from us and rewrote it. Some say she used control+ins, shift+ins and put in her proposal. He comes and says, "That's our proposal! Jesus, don't be so petty, it doesn't matter! Those citizens don't care. - It's just not fair. It's not. Steal it, sign it, present it as your proposal and say at the same time: So don't be so petty. So we're so petty. If only you'd come, Madam Secretary, and said, "You were right." You're saying you didn't know when the emergency would end on April 8th, if it didn't end on April 30th. How did you vote to extend the emergency until 11 May? Can't you feel the contradiction? I wanted to extend the emergency until May 11th, but at the same time I didn't know if May 1st would be an emergency. At the same time, government parties have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. That's just an invented argument. You're upset that we invented it, not you. And now you're late. And people care. Don't worry. And I said - and you confirmed it as if you were arguing. I said we're suggesting the increase, that the costs aren't linear. And you said, and there'll be fewer. I told you that it would be less, that it would not make the impact on the budget so big. We're just gonna talk about the loosening up, so I don't want to burden the debate with what we're gonna have at point 363. I don't know how you counted it, what the arguments are. That's what we're gonna say. But logically, if someone has a loose business and a business, they can't ask for a compensatory bonus. And the Northmen and the Scandinavians. Maybe it's more administratively demanding. That's not what I'm saying. We also didn't say it was a flat-rate measure. They have other support than this. Madam Secretary, do you know when it was approved? Approximately? About March 20th. And our nice government a month and three days later tells you how difficult it is for them. And yet today Minister Havlíček said, and I commended him for doing something similar. It's called something else. It's about the rent. It is also the share of fixed costs. And he says he's going to propose that the government pay a third of the fixed rent costs. And I commended him for that. It's good. Just like... If the MIT does it, that's good. If the opposition suggests it in another law, is it wrong? So what's the deal? Does the government want to participate in the payment of the rent where they can't do business, or doesn't want to? Minister Havlíček, Vice Prime Minister of the Government says he does. And he got our compliments for it. And the secretary of finance, also vice prime minister of the same government, tells us he doesn't want to. And then no wonder we say chaos works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u31	Next is Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendments that I tabled in the general debate. It's about the bonus period. This amendment is brought under House document 5013. The second amendment, which extends the bodies of applicants for a compensatory bonus, is submitted together with my colleague Ferjenčík and is under House document 5014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u33	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u34	Thank you. I will sign up for the two amendments that I have announced here. Under number 5038 you will find an extension of the compensation bonus for micro-enterprises and under number 5044 is an alternative, if the joint proposal to defer VAT did not pass, it is also a deferral of VAT with slightly different parameters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u35	Thank you. Mr Jan Hrnčíř, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for House press number 5027. [[document]] It is an amendment which essentially grants a tax bonus not only to self-employed persons but also to small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives, except with the condition that only those companies whose real owner is the tax resident of the Czech Republic are entitled to it, which means that we do not want Czech taxpayers' money to end abroad. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u37	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am applying to the amendments under the number 5037 - which deal with cases of co-operation between business and employment; 5039 - he deals with support for one-man s. r. o., this I give with my colleague Věra Kovářová, apart from my colleague Tomáš Martínek. In addition to the amendment under number 5043 - this is a proposal which extends support to people who have worked on agreements. These are agreements on the carrying out of work of over CZK 10,000 and agreements on work activities of over CZK 3,000. I submit this proposal with a number of other opponents. I stress that this proposal settled the main reservation of the CSSD club, which was raised against it last time, because today all the deadlines for payment of the contribution from the agreements have expired, so it is definitely no longer possible to conclude those agreements retroactively. I appeal first of all to the Social Democrats to support it this time, because their main reservation has long since fallen. I also stress that they are people who have properly paid the levy, because it is only a limited group of negotiators. Then Amendment 5049. There is an increase in legal certainty. With regard to the interruption, I very much welcome the fact that the Minister for Microphones has confirmed that people who have ceased trade in panic, provided that they have not received unemployment benefits, are entitled to support on those days when trades are suspended. Of course, they are entitled to the rest of the interruption period if they draw. The last proposal I support will be read by my colleague Válek. This is a proposal that provides for an exception at least for dealing with employment in relation to pedagogical activities. I very much intercede for this House to support people who are professionals in their field, but who teach part-time at universities, in secondary schools, and because of their small-time employment, they have now lost their support. I think we should support this group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u39	Thank you. Mr Válek, Mr Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u40	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, my colleague Ferjenčík has already said, I am signing up for Amendment 5036, which is a de facto minor change that should be corrected - and perhaps you will support it, I firmly believe in it - the magic of the unwanted, unfortunate spell of the unwanted, which was put there by Onderka's amendment, which was conducted in good faith, he will certainly explain it, but we did not realise when we voted on it that it could be the opposite option than what the amendment was intended to be, that means that a person who devotes himself to a full-time profession that he cannot now perform, and simply let himself be lured, as my colleague did, to teach biomedical engineers a few hours a month, and therefore cannot receive support for it. I think it's wrong, and I guess we didn't want it. So I beg you very much to be indulgent and to support this amendment. It is indeed a small thing that concerns a relatively small group of people, but groups of people who certainly deserve this support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u41	Thank you. Mr. Jan Skopeček, Mr. Roman Onderka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u42	Thank you for the floor. I'm applying to two amendments. The first is under number 5046. This is the amendment, which extends the scope of the aid to all self-employed persons, with the condition that those who have neglected the original proposal now receive half the aid. The second amendment I'm applying to is a proposal in the system under number 4995. A colleague of Kalousek was talking about him. It is a joint opposition amendment or an amendment based on the joint priorities of the opposition parties. This is primarily to compensate for fixed costs, and this amendment comes with an alternative solution to compensation for these fixed costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u43	Thank you. Mr Roman Onderka, the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to sign up to Amendment 5036 with my colleague Válek and other Members. My amendment, which I was reading 14 days ago, was really meant to ensure that employees who make a little extra money as subsequently self-employed persons do not draw from two chapters at once, that is, on the one hand, from the Ministry of Finance and, on the other hand, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that is, Antivirus. For most of these people, the Antivirus was set up as an employee. This amendment addresses what I did not think about when I served it, which means that there is also an inverted guard, which means that we have mostly a self-employed person, which is another self-employed person who, for example, has a job of zero one, zero one and a half, zero two, zero three, earning in a way that they apply their experience and abilities in teaching activities, which means, for example, universities. The only example that probably hasn't fallen here today, for example, is - I will take it specifically from my city - when one of the artists, for example, means actors or philharmonics, teaches or contributes to the Janáček Academy of Performing Arts. I would therefore ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u45	Thank you. President Jurečka in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u46	Thank you. I would like to refer in a detailed debate to the amendments that I have already partially explained here in the general debate. I would therefore like to apply to Amendment 4977, which concerns the support of groups which unfortunately still have not been received from the point of view of the aid, and it is a subsidiary activity, Pendlers, negotiators, and it is also a question of rent, rent support of 70 per cent, but a maximum of CZK 3,000 per day. [[18.10 hours]] I would also like to sign up for the amendment under number 4976, which concerns the suspension of VAT for 12 months in terms of the maturity and remission of road tax this year. Furthermore, to Amendment 5029, which I would like very much to ask, if you and the Coalition MEPs would also consider supporting. Because if today, in the regime that is possible today, he pardons companies or postpones VAT, as you said you were trying to be helpful and progressive, it doesn't seem entirely fair to me to interest those entrepreneurs. So I'm just hearing it, we're forgiving today for the reasons that they're in a difficult situation, so, for God's sake, why is the state going to interest them? Well, if at least there was a consensus and helpfulness on this part of the coalition, I'd be very welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-007-004.u47	Thank you. I don't see anyone else enrolled in a detailed debate, I end up having a detailed debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? No. Neither does the rapporteur. I will end the second reading of this proposal and we will return to it in conclusion, so that there is room to prepare for the third reading. Let's continue with point number
