ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point, you have received the House document 6799, and I will ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to take the floor and give us the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u2	Hello, everyone, thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members, I present to you today, on behalf of the Government, with a request for an extension of the emergency situation, which the Government has issued by resolution 957 of 30 September 2020, an emergency situation for the territory of the Czech Republic due to a health risk in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus in the Czech Republic. This emergency was then extended on 30 October by decision of the Chamber of Deputies until 20 November. Today, the government is again before the Chamber of Deputies with a new request to extend the emergency by 30 days, i.e. until December 20th. In particular, the government is asking for an extension of the emergency situation because it wants to achieve a decisive turnaround in the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic. It is undoubtedly that since October 30, when we asked for the first extension of the emergency situation, we have achieved some success. The latest data on the growth rate of new cases of Coronavirus indicate an improvement in the situation. It's obvious that the daily numbers of infected people are dropping from a month ago. We believe that this is the result of the measures taken by the government both at the very beginning, i.e. early October, and further tightening up of the measures taken continuously in the coming weeks. In recent days, the government has also adopted a concrete plan for action to be taken to relax measures, so-called PES, antiepidemic system. This will certainly be discussed in detail by the Minister of Health, who will also describe the current situation. I would like to appeal again to us citizens of the Czech Republic that I understand that the current restrictions are not pleasant to anyone and that everyone is already looking for a time when they will be able to pursue their activities as usual. But this situation hasn't happened yet, and it probably won't happen in the coming months. The virus will be with us for a long time, and if we're not willing to respect its existence and danger, there may be another situation where we can face the development of a disease in dimensions that can extremely burden our entire health system. It is the health sector, which, especially now in autumn, is working at the limit of its possibilities, that needs a break. For all paramedics, the current situation is extremely stressful, debilitating. They struggle daily for human lives, and unfortunately, their efforts do not always meet success. We need to free up the capacity in health care for other emergency health care, which is also very important, and I think the Ministry of Health is planning it in the next few days, I hope. Of course, the solution is a vaccine. We're working very hard on this. The vaccination plan is being prepared. Today, in all the surrounding countries, the numbers of the infected are growing again at a rate comparable to what we experienced in our country. Neighbor Austria has taken extremely hard measures these days. Curfew throughout the day except for trips to work, to purchase or to the doctor. Closing shops, restaurants, services etc. When announcing these measures, the Austrian Minister of Health even stated that they had inspired Czech experience when hard lockdown brought results. From time to time, we can say that we went in the right direction and that we have the first results. We have managed to overcome the greatest strain of the virus in cooperation with the citizens and stop its growth. We may have won this first battle, but it is far from the final victory over the virus. The government has approved a plan to proceed with the release. During the next 30 days, for which we want to extend the emergency situation, we will make some release, as it corresponds to the approved system, the antiepidemic system. However, we will act responsibly, and we must be prepared to respond to any possible change in the situation. I would like to emphasise once again that we should not be subject to the false idea that everything is behind us. Let's think about the pre-Christmas shopping, Christmas, and that we want to celebrate these holidays in the family circle. Therefore, I expect that we will continue to follow all the measures and that we will not organise any Christmas parties and similar events. I therefore call also on this occasion for civil responsibility, consideration, solidarity. Let us begin to cooperate more, please, because without cooperation with all citizens, none of what we are proposing, what we all need, will work well. Our personal responsibility for other fellow citizens is enormous. In the light of the above, the Government is requesting pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Whereas: 2 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the approval of the extension of the emergency period until 20 December 2002. Thank you for your attention and your understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before I open the debate, I recall that according to § 109m para. It is not possible to apply factual remarks in the debate when the Rules of Procedure act on a short-term proposal to express consent to an extension of the emergency situation. The Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to Members authorised to refer to the opinion of the Members' Club on the matter. So I am now opening up a debate and I have several applications before the opening of a priority-right meeting. Mr Bartoš's application came first, then President Rakušan, then Vice-President Okamura, and then Mr Ondráček wishes to speak with the club's opinion. I ask if the Minister of Health would agree to speak first in the debate. If everyone involved agrees, it makes sense. Now, Minister, please, you have the floor. Then President Bartoš. Is that okay? Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u4	Sir -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u5	I'm sorry, Minister. If the Pirates Club insists that your priority will be - you insist. So if the others agree, Mr. Bartoš would perform, then the Minister would perform. And you've already knocked down the avalanche, so everyone insists with priority rights that they perform. I don't know if it would be really better to let the Minister of Health perform first. I respect Parliament, my friends. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u6	A serious colleague, colleagues, government, honourable citizens, a decision to prolong the emergency situation is absolutely essential to the future of this country. The limitation of our fundamental rights and freedoms, which each of us has as a citizen of the Czech Republic, must always be very well justified and explained. What is to be the main objective of the government implementing the measures? To prevent the third wave and the economic collapse of this country. Find a balance between the lockdown and the real functioning of the country, after this government underestimated the situation in September because of its efforts to make electoral profit. She left the situation until the moment we have some of the worst numbers in the world, and health and social services, and especially the people in them, are at the limit of their possibilities. At this point, I would like to thank not only doctors and health professionals for their work, but also all those who joined hospitals and social facilities during their studies or as volunteers from among our citizens. It's pretty loud in here, but I'm gonna try to scream it out. For the pirát, I would like to mention a few essential things. Tracing failed in September due to the capacity of the hygiene system. We lacked people and capacity to test, trace and isolate them because someone forgot to strengthen them. How will it be now? As a result, not only financial but also human victims, Andrej Babiš shut down the country. He's limited businesses, retail, left only large business chains open. He prevented children from being educated, destroyed gastronomy and services, and declared curfew. [[8.20 hours]] The Prime Minister's rhetoric has also changed. The rhetoric of the summer when he claimed that nothing was happening and the virus was fundamentally weakening. Now people could no longer hide the truth, more than 6,000 people died, of which the vast majority in September, October and November. So we have largely sacrificed our economy, the economy of companies, families and individuals again, to delay the collapse of Czech health care for the second time, when there were over 8,000 people with coronavirus at the top in hospitals. We are now watching the incredible deployment of paramedics fighting for the lives of almost every patient. Not in vain do we call this a fight in the front line, and, unfortunately, some of them died in this first line. So they were sacrificed by Andrej Babiš, who underestimated the return of coronavirus in August. Otherwise, the Andrej Babiš, who was also in the role of Chief of the Government Council for Health Risks. And since the country has been in this desperate situation, once again, we have no choice but to ask completely critical questions about the entire society. I will now ask these questions, they will concern both health care and economic impact on companies, entrepreneurs and families. Now, then, health issues. I would like to ask, I hope to get an answer to that, if the government already has an updated pandemic plan after almost nine months since the start of the crisis. Did you rework it so that you could follow it? I don't mean the table and the PES system that solves when the measures will be taken. I mean, a full-fledged pandemic plan that should be followed. Question two. Have you solved the compensation for quarantine measures? People who are in retail may end up in quarantine several times during the winter. Financially, it hurts them so much that they just can't afford it, so they let themselves be denied. Did you also prepare the programme for their economic support? Because only a timely and sufficiently financially saturated quarantine will allow us to win this fight and people will not avoid it for economic reasons. Question three. Exactly how much can you trace every day, what's the number? If you are going to relax now, and this has been said here, individual measures, you must also say on what numbers you are able to control the epidemic. Question four. Have you strengthened the workplace for the collection and evaluation of PCR tests? At this point, I don't mean antigenic tests that are likely to be about 70 percent reliable. I mean to build a massive PCR test base, all over the Czech Republic, so that in all regions it is possible to protest everyone within 24 hours if necessary. Minister Blatný, and this is my fifth question, said yesterday on the Health Committee that one of the reasons for extending the emergency situation is the possibility of central control of sanitary stations, because there is still a different state of readiness for individual regional health stations. But since March, the Ministry has had plenty of time to ensure the coordination of regional health stations by adopting a law in a legislative emergency. So we're supposed to subpoena the emergency? In addition to the effects on people's health, however, we are facing a huge impact of an uncontrolled pandemic on the economy of small companies, s. r. o., entrepreneurs and households. So let's focus on the economic question, because a lasting lockdown affects the work and economic stability of a huge number of people. And it is these people who are experiencing a real existential crisis. What we've done or what the government has done towards the self-defense, we know. The government is giving them help from one hand, or they're talking about about 15,000 a month, and they're taking 5,000 at the other hand. That's a little extra help. I was struck by Mrs Schillerová's statement that he wasn't going to change anything about it. The essential requirement of the pirát is the forgiveness of compulsory contributions to the affected self-employed, and if the state cannot manage it, then to all the self-employed. I mean, if I see in one system that someone has succeeded and asked for it, at the same time I see that this person could be exempted from payment of advances based on this request. The compensation bonus, which was restarted in a slightly different autumn, and let's face it, stricter conditions, is effectively reduced by a whole third in order to maintain mandatory contributions. So not 15, but 10,000. Although the PES matrix was launched last week, I do not know whether deliberately discrimination against retail, i.e. small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, against large chains. It is perhaps not necessary to recall the socio-economic importance of entrepreneurs and the healthy condition of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the region. We support and have pointed out many times the need for equalisation of small traders with large ones, even since the spring wave. A large number of specifically targeted aids indicate that they are the result of certain lobbyist efforts. The flat aid, consisting primarily of non-changing amounts, is not able to reflect the different position of individual types of entrepreneurs or their specific situation. Let me give you an example: bonus in combination with COVID - Rent completely passes the fixed costs of entrepreneurs who repay mortgages. Examples of well-established area aid can be found in the Netherlands, where a proportion of fixed costs are paid, a living allowance or a part of income, a part of lost earnings. Such support responds much better to the individual status of individual entrepreneurs and their life situations. The things that the House is now dealing with cannot be remembered. In the context of the current crisis, it is necessary to draw attention to the risks associated with the intended change in labour taxation. If there are indeed changes in the taxation of work by adopting Mr Babiš's parliamentary proposal in this role, which is not reflected in the state budget, and the budgets of municipalities and regions will lose much of their income, they will very likely cut investment, which will further threaten the rapid resolution of the economic crisis, because it will affect entrepreneurs in the region who are working on solutions for cities and regions. With the pirát, we are very concerned about the worse economic situation across the population. In particular, we draw attention to the worsening position of single parents and single parents. In a time of deepening economic crisis, workers working on agreements or agency employees will again be one of the most vulnerable. I therefore appeal once again to the predictability of economic measures, to fair and sufficient support for all affected entities and groups and to the functional solutions needed to manage the coronavirus pandemic, that is testing, tracing and protecting those vulnerable groups. If this government is unable to guarantee the safety of risk groups of citizens with practical action on the one hand and justice in the distribution of impacts on citizens on the other, then what is the emergency situation for? We requested a clear evaluation of individual measures for the development of virus spread in the Czech Republic. We didn't get him. I wrote a letter to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš yesterday, checked my data box several times, if I get any of the basic answers, I got the answer that it's not in the government's jurisdiction to ask the Ministry of Health. We demanded management and, above all, the fight against pandemics using data. This is also not happening very much, see the statement by Minister Havlíček, when some conditions will start to apply one day, and it is already being resolved that the conditions will change again in those supermarkets. Otherwise, I'm a little surprised by the statement, and I'm going to turn a little bit, and I can't figure out how to sell only commodities that these measures apply to in supermarkets. Of course you can. There's this thing, it's called a separation tape, you're going to stretch it around those shelves where things aren't food, they're not drugstores, like they have abroad, and they just don't sell things. The liquidation of that little business, where everything actually belongs to the business chains where people accumulate because of it, I think it's either alibiism or pure intent. So the actual liquidation of the retail business, despite our significant efforts from the first wave, is now reaching its peak. Obviously, and maybe there's something going on here today that's gonna disprove my knowledge, that's obviously not gonna do anything about it, and the government isn't gonna straighten out retail with the big chain business segment. [[8.30 hours]] We and the pirát have spent all our strength to help this country over the past few months. We offered experts and capacities from many different fields, presented examples from abroad, fought for endangered groups of people, for helping our economy, we tried to involve Czech companies and their products in the fight against the epidemic. Most of it, however, was simply not heard by the government. The emergency situation is not a toy for ministers to take into account the needs of their business buddies and uncontrolled introductions providing (?) our freedoms. It is not the candy that the government again chooses from according to some whims without being able to explain to people why and what measures apply to them at the moment. We asked the Prime Minister this week to answer our questions about economic and health measures. And I will stress that once again in vain, although this is what the House has agreed that we will receive this information with considerable advance. So I guess for me - without guaranteeing the fairness of the measures and without the expertise for this decision, I cannot support, as a Member, the further extension of the emergency situation according to the Government's proposal. Thank you for your attention. I apologize to the Minister for taking this introductory word in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Other people with priority rights will be able to perform the Minister of Health, as we agreed here during your speech. So, Mr. Health Minister, and then we'll continue with our applications. The first will be the written application by President Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for allowing me to speak here before your speeches with the right of priority. Today, I would like to add information regarding our request for an extension of the emergency situation. When I come before you here now, I do so knowing that I want you to make a decision that will be difficult, which will affect the lives of a large number of people and which will not be easy. Of course, like everyone else, I will humbly respect your decision, because it is you who change the law and establish it. Before you do so, however, as a Minister of Health, but also as a citizen, I feel obliged to inform you about specific data, which will make the right decision. Let me now focus my communication on several areas. On the one hand, I would like to remind you of the system that we have put in place to help fight the epidemic, and I will introduce you to the current situation, and I will give you my views, or the government's views on why we dare to come forward with an emergency request, an extension, and why we are considering exactly 30 days. I have already said in several previous communications that a so-called counterepidemiological system has been introduced which envisages the risk index as one of the evaluation tools and solutions to the current situation. This new risk index has been developed in the broad cooperation of experts from both the Ministry of Health, where I want to highlight the invaluable and irreplaceable role of the IHIS as well as in cooperation with experts from foreign and Czech universities. The new index is calculated and implemented into the IHIS database and is subject to anti-epidemiological measures at the relevant levels. This index is evaluated for both the Czech Republic and for lower administrative units, especially at regional level, and is at risk from 0 to 100 per cent, thus allowing the individual categories to be graduated and to monitor gradual improvement, or for God's sakes the deterioration of the current situation. We all know what the system looks like, how it's colored and otherwise coded, and we all know that we can monitor its development every day. This is, among other things, our efforts to increase the transparency of decision-making and bring it closer to citizens. If I should sum up very simply what indicators this index is composed of, then I can say that we are essentially interested in how many people have recently been infected, how many seniors have recently been infected, because we have talked here many times about the fact that this group is the most vulnerable and needs our protection most, and on the other hand, it is precisely this category of people who threaten the capacity of our hospitals in terms of congestion. We also find out how the number of infected is increasing, or if you want to see the virus spread in the population. And the last of the parameters is whether we can capture the infected effectively and quickly, which shows the positiveness of the tests and the tracking system. It is essential that an increase in the risk index lasting three or more days is taken into account in the decision to move to a higher level of alert. It is because of the need for a rescue brake, if necessary in the future, to be able to pull back in time, but other situations are also taken into account. This system is not a robotic system. It's a system that gives us information so that we can make a qualified decision. If the situation takes place as it is now, and the situation improves, then in an attempt to reduce the likelihood of the system fluctuating, we know that it will be at least seven days after which it must take a better risk score to be able to recommend a lower risk category. Sustainability of this system is a fundamental task for weeks to come. We are all pleased to realise that the evolution of the epidemic in the Czech Republic shows particularly in the last week signs of retreat or, if you wish, braking. The population burden is falling, what is called a reproductive number is falling, it is currently moving to values around 0.7, and the number of hospitalized ones is also falling. But the number of hospitalized in intensive care units, that is, those who are seriously ill, is still ahead of a thousand, and - and that is perhaps even more significant - every day we detect the disease of seniors in numbers that are still moving over one thousand. Well, there is no escalation in high-risk scenarios in any of the regions. However, despite these positive signals, compliance with the measures is essential. Only and only then will slowing down continue and the system will continue to be sustainable, as the situation is still very unstable, and therefore vulnerable, decline and positive trends are not equally visible in all regions, and as I have already said, we still have a large number of patients in our hospitals. There is also a risk of contagion among the elderly. The number of tests that are carried out is on adequate numbers and it can be seen that the percentage of positiveness of these tests is falling, however it is still around 20 percent and this is clear evidence of continuous community spread in the population. If I use the risk score number that we introduced in the antiepidemiology system, then we know that it dropped to 70 at the beginning of last week and stayed on it for a whole week. Today for the first time there was a further decline and today respectively. Yesterday's score points to 62. All last week, however, we held on to values of around 70. [[8.40 hours]] The measures taken are therefore functional and have been reflected in current positive trends, and this is certainly a good thing. Their fundamental unitary effect, and this is, please, extremely important, is the reduction of population mobility and the reduction of social contacts. This is essential to maintain, or to be able to manage to proceed further, because at a time when there would be uncontrolled easing and an uncontrolled increase in contact and mobility, then the trend would certainly change. It is very good that due to the measures in place, mobility has decreased by 66 percent throughout the Czech Republic. And these are data that are fully comparable to spring numbers, and yet we were able to maintain a much larger part of the economy functional and running. What are the legal reasons for the emergency? Why are we proposing an extension of the emergency? If the measure is to have an impact in the form of a general and rapid intervention which will continue to take place, the mechanism of the crisis law should be used to the extent permitted by it. The measure under Section 69 of the Public Health Act cannot be applied to this extent. As a general rule, these have a close link only to the local outbreak and the reason for its application must be the actual direct local link with preventing the spread or emergence of the epidemic, not to the general, preliminary or preventive measures. Therefore, those measures which are overall and which cannot otherwise be achieved should be used to the maximum extent. The Crisis Act defines headings of rights that can be limited only within its scope, i.e. in an emergency situation. It includes freedom of movement, business and so forth. Therefore, for example, such measures as a general curfew and the like cannot be dealt with in any other way. Let me give you three examples. With regard to area restrictions: curfew - again, this Regulation is only possible under crisis law, since it is not localised measures. Example two: prohibition of restrictions on shops and establishments; Since it is not a localised measure, it is necessary to address it in this way. And a general ban or restriction on mass events, when there is a significant and widespread intervention in several fundamental rights and freedoms, is really needed to be addressed in this way again. This includes regulation, for example, for schooling. It is very likely that if we all behave responsibly, we will be on stage number one in the pre-Christmas period, according to the current system. 3. This stage is not feasible without these surface measures. For the above reasons, therefore, we ask for an extension of the emergency situation precisely for the need for the sustainability of the antiepidemic system as a major task for the next weeks or, if you wish, another 30 days. Please allow me to outline a situation that could occur at a time when this plan is not fulfilled. That is why we are asking for 30 days, because this deadline will end a few days before Christmas. The moment another risk scenario occurs and, for example, without regulation, we will be in two or more weeks before Christmas, then there will be only one. It is human nature to meet your needs and I would not blame anyone for the fact that when these measures are not set up, there will actually be an uncontrolled watering of the population, we will all want to go buy gifts under the Christmas tree to the store without any measures. I'm warning all of us that besides presents, we will also buy a disease that we will then bring home and carry it to our families at the time of the so-called peaceful Christmas. In the first half of January, another wave, further increase in the number of patients, is likely to follow, and we will not be able to respond to this otherwise than by tightening up the measures again. Therefore, and on purpose, we ask for thirty days, which will provide us with a controlled treatment of the time until Christmas holidays, and a quiet time will follow, which will not be associated with the expected increase in risk factors and the expected deterioration of the situation. In conclusion, then, let me say that as the main reason why it is necessary to prolong the emergency situation, I see the need to maintain a reduced mobility of the population and a reduced possibility of social contacts. Yes, the epidemic situation is improved, but it is still unstable and requires country-wide measures and national governance. At this point, regional proceedings are not safe in my opinion. Only an extension of the emergency situation will enable us to limit the population's movement nationwide and regulate mobility and its derived contacts between people, and this must be a fundamental goal for all of us. In hospitals, and let us not forget this, there are still a large number of patients who need to fall gradually because we need to systematically manage the transition to restore elective care. There are many of our fellow citizens who have other diseases than covid, and we must ensure that these patients can also be treated comprehensively as soon as possible. Indeed, the state of readiness of individual regional sanitary stations is not the same and, in many regions, the transition to regional measures could create difficulties. Before I thank you for your attention, I will at least answer Mr Bartoš's questions briefly. Currently, to yesterday, 5,500 people were routed a day and 8,660 risk contacts, the tracking success rate is 97 percent. Compared to the number of persons involved in tracking in September, their number increased to double. And as far as the second question about equality between small and large entrepreneurs is concerned, then I think that the system, as set up now, measures everyone equally. There is no difference in the table of measures between retail and large chains. It is true, however, what the President said is that there is not yet a limited range in large chains, and this, of course, causes legitimate dissatisfaction. But it is not in the power of the Ministry of Health to order otherwise. If we get there, and I firmly believe that, to the risk situation no. 3, then with the constraints that are desirable, all the shops and all the establishments will be opened without distinction and it is one of the deposits that I think we are bringing, because we are trying not only to vertically but also horizontally link the whole system of measures so that no one can feel disadvantaged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority rights, President Rakušan. Vice-President Okamura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly worth thanking for the start, but not the government, but the people in the Czech Republic, all those who follow measures that make their lives very difficult. To all tradesmen who have closed their premises and who get to the edge of what is even bearable to them without anyone helping them in their difficult situation and explaining why they are closed when shopping in supermarkets is happy. I would like to thank all health professionals who are able to cope with the situation that is still very and very difficult for them. I speak from the experience of my own family, I know what I'm talking about. I would like to thank all volunteers who have been involved throughout the Republic, often at the expense of their economic needs, in helping health professionals to help social facilities. However, I would also like to thank all the parents whose children are at home, and yet they are trying to cope with the distance teaching with them, trying to lead their children, even in this difficult time, to the habits that learning is simply normal, and trying to replace completely irreplaceable. He's trying to replace schooling. They are trying to replace the place where there is not only an educational process, but so much important social gathering of young people, because that is what we should be thinking about first. [[8.50 hours]] So thank you very much for the fact that the situation is gradually improving and that the real number of social contacts, although it is very difficult for us personally and many of us already feel really closed into a narrow social environment, but those social contacts have simply fallen clearly and it has helped the situation very much. The government is coming to us in this situation with a request for an emergency for 30 days. And I'm saying, with a little bit of a request, because an emergency is something we're just not supposed to get used to. And I will always be here over and over again to remind you that this is an extreme instrument that simply affects the constitutional rights of people in the Czech Republic. It is a very special instrument and should be treated in such a way. And in the beginning, I thanked you. I think that those people whom I thanked would simply deserve from the government every time it comes up with an emergency request, a detailed assessment of the individual measures that are in place in the Czech Republic, the ones that have really and measurable indicators that have made sense. And in this, too, the government is not helping. Let us follow the discussions of the various ministers. We hear Minister Havlíček, who, after three weeks of not going shopping on Sunday, actually says that the measure may not make any sense. Does he or doesn't he? What's the indicator? Does anyone measure it? Or did it just try? Or was it found that, on Saturday, the shops would then become even more crowded and the epidemiological risk would increase? Fronts in front of supermarkets, limit shopping area of 15 m2 per person. Are we gonna stick to the arrangement, or are we not gonna stay with him? It corresponds to the table, the PES measure we have was announced to us that the government does not want to move away from it, but now we see queues in front of supermarkets, and we hear from some government politicians that we might be able to revise the measure. And while we're talking about supermarkets, why don't we just open up the premises to retailers who have no problem making sure that there's only one customer on a particular area? And it's often a lot easier than those big shopping centers. So that I don't cheer and lobby anybody for one group, I pick a business I personally like - a bookstore. Why are bookshops and similar establishments not open? Is the bookseller, the one who sells there, able to ensure that all measures are followed? It is. And in a much easier way than supermarkets. My colleagues outside the microphone are yelling at me, there were no lines. Gentlemen, colleagues, if you've seen two supermarkets without queues, that doesn't mean they weren't anywhere else. Maybe this is the way the government decides, but your experience isn't enough as it looked elsewhere in the Republic. And that they were formed, so they were formed mainly in the morning hours when people of the elderly go shopping. And those people were standing in front of the supermarkets, and they were communicating in some way, definitely not keeping their distance. And I'm asking if this isn't an epidemiological risk either. It simply needs to be demonstrated that the system of measures with which the government comes has logic. And that's where I come up with the basics. Prove it to us! If you're asking for an emergency, evaluate the individual measures, evaluate them and tell us if they're the ones that actually helped. I just don't see the only reason why we shouldn't do such an assessment at shorter intervals. Why should we meet here only once a month, automatically give for 30 days... The House is meeting all the time now. We're in a state of legislative emergency. We negotiate every week. The agenda for the meetings has completely broken up. Why can't we meet here in 14 days? Why can't Minister Blatný do a detailed analysis of what didn't work? And what else is bothering me about the PES system? He automatically counts on all stages of emergency. This is justified by the Minister's legal fees. And I believe him. But I want to have, and I think the citizens would definitely appreciate it, even some vision that sometimes it will be possible to end the emergency. And then what's the situation going to look like? Then what's the zero state going to look like? Is he modeled in any way? There's a model situation where there's no need for an emergency anymore, and what are we doing at that point? Then we just recommend it? Or will there be another legal standard that will still give people restrictions? Why isn't he modeled in the system and the state where the emergency situation is simply and simply no longer needed? Government communication. I have to appreciate that this system exists. The fact that he was supposed to be a long time ago in the summer is another matter. But what happened again with Feri's legendary web site, when it was an official source of information for a while, wasn't for the second time, and the government wasn't able to give us clear information, it just doesn't show that everything got better the way it should. Questions that we want to hear clearly. Minister Blatný has already responded to one of them in response to Mr Bartoš. Tracing. Next, how it looks with testing whether the capacity of all private laboratories with the necessary equipment and qualifications for testing is currently sufficiently used. How it looks with the introduction of testing in social facilities in the Czech Republic, whether it has actually been possible to test the most endangered groups of caregivers, pensioners, clients in social facilities. In what way and whether the testing of teaching staff is being prepared at the time of entering schools and whether - unless it is being prepared - this is not another potential risk and whether this would not help to ensure that the opening of schools to which I appeal is without problems and not pose an inappropriate risk to older educators in particular. What's the deal with the retail compensation that suffers the most? We have some Antivirus program here. It's for employees. But those who have closed their small establishments often, in my opinion, needlessly and in a great deal of contradiction to open supermarkets - how will the government help them? Where is the promised aid to singles who did not fit in the amendment by Mrs Kovářová, who simply failed? The Senate passed the bill from the House, unfortunately he didn't send it back, and the singles seemed to be forgotten. It's a hard-to-definable group, not as easily as a huge group of seniors, with a total of five thousand. But at this point, it is a group that is truly and clearly the most at risk, and it still hasn't received any effective help. Next, let me ask you how it looks with the state and functionality of the sanitation stations, if there is a certainty at this point that all of them work in such a way that there is no more danger of worsening the situation in any region than in any other region. Is the route across the whole Republic comparable? Do some regions cope with knowledge worse than others? Are we focusing a little locally on crisis management, or are we just looking at total numbers? There's just so many questions. And prolonging the emergency state to 30 days, without having to evaluate what the measures have brought so far, is simply not possible. Don't treat people like that! Behave with them by explaining things to them that you will really be able to prove to them that your measures make sense. And then and at that moment, humbly approach the House and ask that we restrict people's constitutional rights. Because the fact that the situation is improving is not your fault, but it is the credit of all the patient people in the Czech Republic. But they're running out of patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by repeating our basic and never-changing position: we have been and are still ready to support all the steps that will protect the lives of our citizens. However, these measures must always be directly proportionate to the threat and must be taken in such a way that, under one pretext, they do not cause much more damage in another area. And now we have another government request to extend the emergency for another 30 days. In times of strict anti-pandemic measures people do not get living space for work, people lose money and jobs, companies crash, citizens have minimal social contact with society and e.g. In elderly homes, the feeling of loneliness and separation, which brings health problems, is a real problem because of the limitations of visits. There are also increases in the number of people with depression, increased risk of suicide. For the sake of clarity, Ladislav Dušek's statistics have pointed out that oncological diseases will increase. As Czech Oncological Society President Jana Prausová pointed out - I quote: "Coronavirus does not end in patient care. Viruses come, viruses go, tumors stay." End of quote. Professor David Cibula or Chief of Cardiology Department of Hospital Na Homolce Professor Petr Neužil warns that delaying preventive examinations due to the emergency situation and this situation will have a greater impact on the health of the Čech than COVID-19 itself. A separate chapter has economic implications. As much as we agree with the President that life and health take precedence over money, we must be aware that we simply need money to protect people's health and lives. We need them both for health professionals themselves, who are financially underappreciated and doing excellent work - and therefore, in part, people are not rushing to work in health care, and in part they are going to work for more money abroad or private clinics. Less paramedics once again means more burden for those who remain there self - sacrificing, and, of course, less comfort for patients. So if we appeal to the government to bring the maximum of society's life to normal as soon as possible, it is not because we have underestimated the danger of a new virus in any way, but because the new disease has even more burdened the underfunded and staffed undersized system. In addition to making the whole system more efficient, we must not want to think about the system having enough money. The last thing that must play a role in our decision-making is that the government must protect both lives and citizens' freedom and property. And as we know, much of the government's regulations restrict freedom and damage property. And we, both in opposition and in government, must therefore carefully measure the degree of interference in freedoms in the name of protecting lives, so that the damage is not unnecessarily greater than is absolutely necessary. The government wants to prolong the emergency again by 30 days. The question is why. I think not only the voters of the SPD, but all citizens rightly ask why. Even now, according to applicable laws, regional sanitation stations can take epidemiological measures without emergency conditions. They can order quarantines, close schools or firms. In this context, unfortunately, the only thing we have here is that the emergency situation is only to allow the government to buy without tenders or to control the lives of citizens and the economy of our Republic in an unprecedented way. This is the most visible emergency effect. The government had three quarters of a year to prepare for a logical wave of respiratory diseases repeated in autumn with iron regularity year after year. So, to be honest, if we're missing anything after half a year of covid, then first of all, it's a problem of government inability to prepare for what had to inevitably come up. If the government is causing damage today - and that it is causing them really and that it is asking for an emergency again and again - then it must be said that this is its failure, and citizens should ask for 100% compensation for unnecessary damage and a clear political responsibility should be established. Here I would like to stress that, as the only SPD movement in the spring of the pandemic, we proposed to amend the law on public health protection, and we are also proposing that individual measures be decided by the expert bodies of the Ministry of Health, i.e. health professionals and epidemiologists, without the need to declare an emergency. According to this law, the current epidemics - and successfully - have been resolved without problems, e.g. flu. The government has, of course, rejected our proposal, and the result is that it is repeatedly asking for an extension of the emergency situation. It's a big mistake for a government that is now literally being paid for by the entire Republic. At the same time, in a state of legislative emergency, we could amend the Public Health Act here in the House in one day. But it can be seen that the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM simply wants emergency status, wants to do contracts without a selection procedure, wants to control the lives of citizens at all costs, even though the situation can be solved differently, completely professionally and without an emergency situation. SPD new extension respectively. The next extension of the emergency state will not support, unless the government actually says a vital life saving reason, which we have not even heard in the opening appearance of Prime Minister Babiš. Even after the last few weeks of emergency, we unfortunately have to say again that the public is complaining about the endless confusion about the government when regulations are illogical, and so they are changing from day to day and there is a lack of relevant information, which is putting us in a really bad situation. We in the SPD want to be constructive and we have no reason to oppose just because the government is proposing this, however confused and increasingly less credible it has been lately. We certainly do not want and will not boycott in any situation measures that can actually protect human health and lives. But today, after careful analysis of the facts, we do not see the only reason to give a blank check to the government to further abuse the situation for non-transparable purchases and non-transparable measures that, as the Prague court said a few days ago, the government does not really know how to properly justify. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just us calling for facts and information, but the court has already given us the truth and trust that this trial is not the only one. Let us expect more in the future. And, by the way, it is in the interest of the government, but it is also for us to be able to properly justify every measure, because the subsequent damage will have to be borne by the state. And in fact, the saddest thing is that neither ministers nor Prime Minister will pay them, but they will be paid by the state budget, i.e. once again by citizens who will pay twice for bad government solutions. For example, several times, and without an answer, we ask ourselves how the government is working on testing covid drugs. Because if we have a disease, then we should primarily look for drugs, not buy untested vaccines or rely on closing down the economy and society. As experts confirm, the virus will never disappear, on the contrary, it will continue to mutate and threaten us all the time. The journey is not to have a lifetime quarantine and an endless emergency. On the other hand, the only real way is to prepare the country and society to live safely without restricting freedom and the economy with new viruses. I'm not saying anything new, I'm not saying anything that experts from all over the planet wouldn't say. But apparently, much of the politicians, not just us, just don't want to hear it. The fact is, according to experts and statistics, we have around 83% of citizens who are not at risk from covid. And these people can't be locked up forever and limited just because the government has apparently resigned to the possibility of targeted and targeted protection for those at risk. There are 17 percent of the population at risk. They're seniors, paramedics and chronically ill people. [[9.10 hours]] This resignation charge for the protection of endangered population groups falls only on the government. Because the fact on the other hand is that, of course, the homes of seniors or hospitals themselves on their own initiative and often try to protect those at risk for their money. But again, as we know from the media, the government ordered, for example, testing in senior homes, but it did not deliver the tests on time. And homes would buy them with their already insufficient money. These are such incredible failures that a normal person can't even believe it. And in this situation, after a series of failures, the government again asks the House for an extension of the emergency. I don't think much of the citizens will understand this behavior anymore, and we shouldn't tolerate it, let alone support it. For the above reasons, the members of the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation and we will not support it in any or a shorter variant. This is where I would like to stop briefly for those regulations, measures announced by the government. It is necessary to set a specific example of illogicality or even badness, virtually. the errors of certain measures. I mean, for example. that the government allowed stores to be opened in hypermarkets that sell e.g. shoes and textiles. Yes, groceries, shoes, textiles. This means, while multinational hypermarkets, large multinational corporations have open and sell shoes, textiles and similar goods, so Czech shops of Czech businessmen and Czech small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with the same range must be closed. This means a Czech small shop or a shop smaller than a hypermarket that sells the same shoes, the same textiles, so it must be closed. This means Čech, Czech entrepreneurs, Czech employees are in an incredibly difficult situation, many are failing, desperate for support, but the government will allow them to be open to stores with the same range - multinational large supermarkets, or even hypermarkets. This is an incredible failure! This means multinational corporations, which often carry out dividends here, tax-free dividends, abroad, so the government supports them, but our businessmen and our small and medium-sized companies, who are the backbone of our economy, and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and their employees are the backbone of every advanced economy, so they are not supported by the government. They basically had to shut you down! It has no logic, because in that small shop the owner or staff can also regulate the number of incoming people, as well as the number of people who go shopping. There's only one person at the store at the time, one or two of them during the day, and maybe one of them will wait outside for a while. So, on the contrary, the possibility of supervision is much better than that of a big hypermarket. And the government shuts down businesses, small businesses and shops to Czech businessmen, Czech entrepreneurs, so economic multinational corporations will benefit them completely unacceptably in competition, and actually our small entrepreneurs and our businessmen and employees and the small ones will basically often fail and leave them in a desperate situation! This is simply completely unacceptable! Just this regulation - that is why I am talking about it - is completely unacceptable to the SPD! Because the SPD is on the side of Czech businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and we simply do not support multinational corporations to be favoured. By the way, as the government stands up to this, we can also see that the SPD here has proposed an amendment to the law, so that if multinational corporations issue dividends abroad, today it is not a 15% tax, while Czech companies in the Czech Republic have to pay this tax, and the government has rejected our proposal. It is said to be contrary to the regulations, the rules of the European Union. Well, at least we see what the European Union has pushed us into. Of course, we put it on purpose so that it could be seen. This means that the European Union forces us to benefit multinational corporations here, which then tax in more tax-efficient countries, and it persects our Czech companies in our own internal market. It's incredible what we're a member of here! And we, SPD, have an answer for that. A referendum on the withdrawal from the EU, let the citizens decide their own future in their own country. 'Cause this is where it shows exactly who the government's got their hands on. And they are not Czech citizens, they are not Czech entrepreneurs and their employees and small Czech companies. So here I have given a concrete example of a measure that is absolutely head-on. Of course, we criticized the fact that the shops were closed on Sunday. There's no logic to that. There was an accumulation on Saturdays and Mondays. And I'm glad the government finally figured it out. But once again, after six months of unbelievable inconclusiveness and chaoticness and especially separation from reality. I don't think government members come here to shop, or I don't know. Another thing I would like to stop at, and another example for how the government supports multinational corporations and their profits, on the one hand, but on the other hand, it completely forgets, as I said, the Czech small and small and smaller entrepreneurs. That is why we proposed, specifically our Member, Lucie Šafránková, today proposed for the SPD to amend the Act on Compensation Bonus, which came out last week in the Collection of Laws, but the government forgot to support a significant group of businessmen who are trying to save jobs and the standard of living of their employees, and forgot about a large group of businessmen who have been neglected to give a compensatory bonus. So the SPD movement immediately prepared a novel where we submitted it - because the SPD has long-term support for all working citizens. And the point is that this bill, which allows for a compensatory bonus and was adopted thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, of course, because we support financial and social assistance to people and companies affected by government measures, but this law does not allow entitlement to this bonus of CZK 500 per day to self-employed persons who also benefit from the Antivirus programme to maintain their employees' jobs. While eseróček's partners are able to collect both the compensation bonus and the money from the Antivirus program. This is totally unfair to liquidation towards businessmen who had to limit business and close their businesses as a result of government measures. In fact, this situation puts self-employed persons ahead of the choice whether to lay off employees or to be personally, worse, with the whole family, without any income for several months. And we see, of course, that this measure does not have any logic or substantive authority, because in both cases, both self-employed and eseróček are the exact same situation within the Antivirus programme. This means that they draw money to support endangered employees, not their own income or enrichment of the employer. That means, I don't understand how the government could forget, or maybe there was an intention, to tradesmen who are pumping Antivirus on their employees, not for themselves, so they can't draw a compensatory bonus. It's just an incredible situation. Also, businessmen are desperate to write to us, and we responded immediately, and we immediately filed the amendment. So I'm hoping that the government will assign it, because the government here has a majority with the support of the KSČM, the ČSSD, the ANO movement. And I hope they won't block the SPD proposal to help the businessmen. And I must say that, indeed, it is illogical that the government of one of these groups of entrepreneurs will allow a compensatory bonus and forbid another. That can't be accepted. So the SPD for tradesmen affected by the effects of the Coronavirus has been fighting for the long term. And we've already passed dozens of laws in that sense since spring. Some have been accepted, some have not. And this bill continues because we will not silently ignore the bullying and damage of businessmen and small medium-sized Czech companies, which taxes in the Czech Republic and are important to our economy. Finally, I would like to mention that, in this context, in this economic situation in which the Czech Republic now finds itself, among other things, because the government refuses to cut any unnecessary expenditure in the next year's budget, it refuses to cut overpriced foreign military purchases, 50 billion into the German economy for new fighting vehicles, I do not understand 6 billion on French cannons. Why? Why does the government support now in an emergency situation when we need every penny to support the Czech economy and Czech decent citizens, so why does the government send tens of billions to support much more advanced and stronger foreign economies? What's behind this? Certainly not the benefit of Czech citizens. That's quite clear. [[9.20 hours]] So further, of course, we are proposing, and here we have it at second reading, the amendment to the Law on Material Needs, that is to say, the end of abuse of doses that are inadaptable. It is necessary, and I hope that it will pass here as quickly as possible, so that we can regroup the money to decent people and put an end to the support of unadaptable abuse. From the SPD pen there is also a law to end inclusion in education, because Czech special education works perfectly. Healthily disabled, they can get excellent care there. And that's a savings of 6 billion a year about. Cca. And we have other suggestions. So, in this context, of course, we are also proposing to end the abuse, end the payout to those political nonprofits. Mr. Prime Minister, I was here two weeks ago... This is what we talked about here from this place, so I hope the Prime Minister will ensure that the Refugee Aid Organization, which is still suing the Czech state for illegal Afghan migrants detained in the Czech Republic, and judge even on the Czech state, even though it is paid from government ministries, is incredible, 180,000 for Afghan migrants, namely two, so I hope that the Prime Minister will cut off the financing of this political nonprofit and similar ones as quickly as possible. These are all places, these are all items that can be saved in the state budget. Of course, as you know, the Američan have already begun to withdraw the troops from Afghanistan, the Francouz have already withdrawn them. Why is the Czech Republic still holding them there? That's a savings of three quarters of a billion a year. Why are soldiers sent to Mali, Niger, Chad? You decided three weeks ago, CZK 680 million, instead of giving it to decent people, needy people, people in the Czech Republic now. I don't get it. This is a mission, a combat mission in French interest, not Czech. The government is just doing such an illogical thing because it wants to please someone abroad, but it is important, but that also means multinational hypermarkets, everything, but still the Czech citizen must be in the first place, that is the SPD's password. Czech citizen in first place, decent citizen in first place. And in this context, I can't even imagine a rise in the salaries of politicians. And I'm glad that finally, after several years of SPD efforts, when two years ago we proposed a freeze on politicians' salaries, and the House voted on it, and the other parties didn't support the SPD's proposal to freeze salaries, and in the end, two years ago, there was an ANO and Pirates' proposal to raise salaries by 9 percent, so now that the key elections to the House are coming up, it seems that most of us have been here, we will be voting on it at the last, third reading tomorrow, and finally the politicians' salaries for next year should be frozen. So I'm glad that after the SPD proposal was rejected two years ago and the other parties didn't support us, we wanted to freeze those salaries until 2021, so it was then for three years, so finally, the other parties stepped up, some others, Pirates, the ANO movement and others, and we found the majority here to go through the proposal to freeze the salaries of politicians at least now for the last year, for next year, because then it's the next election period, so then the next House in its new composition has to decide for itself. So I have to smile a little bit when I read in the media that this is the proposal of the Pirates and the ANO movement and perhaps the CSSD, while they rejected the SPD proposal two years ago so that it wouldn't be frozen for three years, but let's see, at least now there's a majority to go through it to freeze those salaries, and we're glad that the SPD efforts have finally come to success here. So that's what I wanted to say about this. For all the reasons I have appointed here, the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, too. With the opinion of the KSČM club, Mr Ondráček will appear, and President Pekarová Adamová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, one member of the government, colleagues, before I begin, I would only be short-lived as long as Vice-President of the House of Okamura is still here to comment on his entrée, which he had here, there was no more than a whale hunt in the South China Sea and protection or cage breeding to know how the SPD voted. Mr colleague, Vice-President Okamura, through Mr President, the Government is composed of ANO and ČSSD, not KSČM. Or if you know one of the ministers who's been nominated or nominated and sits here in the government behind the KSČM, then say so. This government only has our tolerance. We've explained it several times, you keep forgetting it. I fully agree with you. What you said about guns and military contracts - you can see that we can agree, even though we are somewhere else in a political struggle, but we can work together. And as for nonprofits, you have full support. Let me give you an example, because you probably don't know, or maybe you didn't discuss it with your colleague, the Prime Minister, I don't know if he knows, but I'm gonna tell him to hear it right now. In 2019 the budget of the Ministry of the Interior went to 40 million nonprofits. In 2020, they had a proposal of 70 million. The amendment I tabled was taken away from them by 20 million, leaving them with 50 million. For 2021, Prime Minister, they're proposing 156 million for nonprofits. For the nonprofits that are suing us, with the state. That's how you plan your budget. [[The Prime Minister is responding from the government bench.]] I'm telling you. I'm telling you, it's your budget too. [[The Prime Minister is responding again.]] Yes, I'll give it to you. Of course, I'll give it to you, because it's a heaven-calling increase of another 300 percent. And now for the material aspect of my contribution. Expert arguments for extending the emergency situation. The Government's request is stated in the very conclusion. "Since emergency measures under crisis law must be issued by the Government only during an emergency period ending on 20 November 2020, it is necessary for the Government to ask the Chamber of Deputies to agree to extend the emergency situation, as foreseen in Article 6 (2) of the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic. The Government of the Czech Republic proposes an extension of the emergency situation until 20 December 2020.' So many quotes from the material given to us by the government. In my opinion, these are arguments which are not expert enough or are not expert enough, they are factual and legal arguments. The Prime Minister said in his opening speech as a reason: the government wants to achieve a turnover in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. I fully understand that, not only does the government want to achieve this, but that is what every responsible politician sitting in this Chamber of Deputies wants to achieve. You know, maybe the expert argument that we're asking for here, I'm not the first person to perform here right now, could be the argument put forward at the end of the presentation, which is attached to the request for consent to extend the emergency situation. Here are four reasons. Firstly or in (a), the situation is very unstable, in quotation marks, it is vulnerable - I fully agree, but this is more or less such a political statement; there are still many patients hospitalized - this could be a partly expert argument; there is still a risk of a high number of infections among the elderly - yes, seniors and health professionals, or other groups are the endangered groups, and it was mentioned here what percentage of people, the population is concerned; and (d) this is - the decline and positive trends are not evident in all regions. I fully understand that, that is true, but in that case, we could also use some of the things that are based on the fact that we could apply these measures to those regions and prevent citizens from travelling freely from those regions throughout the Republic and spreading this disease. So if the expert argument is to be the number of hospitalized ones, I think it might be one of the arguments, so according to the data I looked up on the Internet this morning, to date 6 322, if that's the case and if we can take the data from the Internet. That's the number of hospitalized 6,300. How many hospitalized ICUs are there? The data isn't there, but the exact numbers, I don't know, but based on the development and the way I saw the statistics you submitted, even though they're dated 11. 11, svatý Martin, or 12. 11. so there were 1,200 and some change, which means, guessing, when I take it down, so today it's about 1,200 people in the ICU, or unfortunately already in the ARO. Of course, I do not know the storeroom of these patients, i.e. age or overall - I note the overall - state of health, because these patients are not often hospitalized only with one diagnosis, that is, diagnosis of covid positivity, but they have other diseases, whether they have lung problems or heart problems or other diseases, I am not a paramedic, I do not want to go into it. [[9.30 hours]] So we don't even know the age track, but neither does the general health condition, which in combination, and I repeat again, in combination with the covid, can be life-threatening and in many cases life-threatening. And I know this very well, because even my practical physician with covid was treated and unfortunately he died. I'm just asking what are the expert arguments for continuing the emergency situation? It's an expert argument. I know you've been trying to mention something here, but we're talking about political arguments, arguments that we can't take measures if we don't have an emergency. But these are things that we knew a month ago, two, three, five, six years ago, and we could have responded in some way by legislation. So I understand the factual and legal arguments very well, and now I'm gonna need the expert arguments. The second point I would like to mention - I only have five, so I won't be long. I called it Christmas and skiing. When will you, the Government of the Czech Republic, have the courage to tell the public what Christmas will be like this year? Will they be as normal as last year's or pre-year's? I don't think they are. I think we know that. So wouldn't it be fair to say what people are supposed to be waiting for today? Will they go to our mountains for the holidays? I am from Krkonoše, so there we are used to a large crowd of tourists from large towns, but here we have Orlické Mountains, beautiful Šumava, Jeseníky and we could also name Ore Mountains when I look at my colleague. So what I'm asking is, do we know today, or are we just going to refer to the development of PSA? Of course we can, but these people want information, they'll be ready. You know, they're the hostess, who just often through the winter holidays and the winter season, basically live out of it the whole following year, the hostesses and resort operators need to prepare themselves. They need to be prepared to know if they're supposed to prepare the technique, if they're gonna snow, if the tourists are coming, if they're staying, if it works. If we tell them this information on December 20th, they may also be unable to prepare for the season, or on December 20th, we'll tell them that everything they bought because they were counting on the season to start, so they can throw everything away. And it prepares for the crowd of thousands of tourists, when the capacity of some cities triples- to quadruple, let it be Spindleruv Mlýn, let it be nice to me Pec pod Sněžkou, Pomezni kennels, but also other resorts, which I know very well. So that's where we need to get ready, and we need to say what's going to happen. But the worst thing would be to promise everything. Just promise. There's nothing easier than succumbing to media pressure or your PR advisors again, just like you did at the beginning of this summer. This is not about you, Minister of Health, because at that time you were still in Brno. Everything got really loose, and before you came out of the hangover, how you dealt with the first wave, there was a second wave. No one has heard of our comments, such as the need to buy a sufficient amount of protective equipment, to fill the warehouse of the Administration of State Material Reserves, to amend the Public Procurement Act in this segment. You haven't responded to anything. You were drunk from hangover, as you managed to deal with the first wave, you quickly relaxed, and before you recovered, there was a second wave, unfortunately, that caught us again unprepared and unfortunately even worse than it was in the spring of this year. In all this, you're going to argue with each other in a coalition and point to each other for who's to blame. Great! That's a great government! Two-caliber, Vice-President Okamura. I'm just waiting for you to start filing criminal charges or other favourite elements of the political election struggle. You know, leave it to the voters. They're going to add it up to all of us, and very soon. So I want to hear about Christmas, and will it be, or won't it be skiing? Whether in our mountain resorts or in Austria or Italy, where our people love to go very often. Of course you say, I can't know what's going to happen in Austria and what's going to happen in Italy, but I think we can see how Austria is doing it today. I think they have a curfew during the day, so I don't expect the skiing in the Austrian resorts to be, although, of course, time can change everything. So I'd like to hear this information before 20. 12. when our hoteliers no longer have to prepare our resort operators for this season, or respectively. to prepare for it and then so called. Weeping over earnings. So I would have requested this information before 20. 12. And only the PES won't answer me. Third point - logic of setting exceptions for retail sales. Supermarkets in cities go and profits go abroad, you in villages or small towns have bad luck unless you have a supermarket to sell. Either you go, or you just go to the grocery store that's run by a local Vietnamese or a small chain. He spoke of this here, Vice-President Okamura, so I would rather not talk about the money drain abroad. The illogicality. I can go buy a jar, a bouquet, I can go buy paint, paint, litter, I can buy live fish, I can buy a hamster, I can buy it all, but I can't buy winter shoes or a winter jacket. Of course you can say, so go to the supermarket or the hypermarket, that's where they have it. I don't know if they have it in Kaufland, if they have it in Lidl, yes, they have clothes in Tesco. I don't know if they have shoes. It's not like I'm such a shopping tourist, I spend weekends other than walking around supermarkets. But I don't know if all this stuff can be bought in there. Yeah, I guess there are chain stores that offer shoes, but explain it to those moms that they have to go there. I have an example of a single mom calling me with children aged 12 and 8 when she barely dealt with a covid from the spring part and when she told me, I worked all summer. It's a good thing the kids could go to camp, it was great that you guys got it loose, I saved some money so I could even start the school year, because it's always very economical for us, even though in the Constitution and in the Charter we have written that our education is free of charge. Education may be like that, but you have to buy the rest. And I think many of you moms here would say how much it costs to start a school year for each grade of primary school. So the lady bought and expected to go for September's paycheck and buy her 12-year-old and 8-year-old son winter shoes from the September paycheck he gets in October. I'm afraid she didn't, because you closed. By shutting down the schools, the kids stayed pretty cool at home, but now there's a situation where the kids might already go to that school. She's asking me, Mr. Ambassador, to go to the drugstore to buy a rag on the floor, to wrap the kids' feet in that rag on the floor and shove them in their own boots and explain to my daughter and son that they're modern boots? Why can't people go buy winter shoes or normal shoes? I don't understand. I think Mr Okamura here has said that the measures in these kinds of shops can be done just as well, if not better and more efficiently than in the big stores, because at least in the shoe store where I go, there are four or five customers in the day, and every time I get there, I get three or four vendors who immediately want to pay attention to me. I guess they know I'm incompetent, and I don't know what kind of shoes I want to buy, or they want to force me to do something I don't want to do. So I'm regularly given enough people who are there. So all I have to do is have one saleswoman with me, one can determine the number of people in that store, and people can buy, under the conditions you set, 15 square meters per person, I have no problem with that. Consider it because the illogicality in your actions is insane. She really is crazy! [[9.40 hours]] You know, in those business chains, sometimes when I have to go there, it gets crowded. Head on the head. At all, if the Thursdays or other discounts that those business chains have as their bidding day come, not only our seniors will be there, but also people who can save some of the crown that they have to spare, thanks to the discounts. Now you've put the measure at 50 feet per customer. I know a lot of people who've already bought their own shopping cart because they say, "I'm not going to walk with that iron on wheels or that little one, because of course it's much easier from my hygiene, I'm going to take my cart, I'm going to buy it, I'm going to put it on the register, I'm going to put it in my own cart, I'm going to drive away. Now they don't allow it, because they have to take the shopping cart that's in there. Basket numbers tell us how many people we have in the store. At least that's what it looked like yesterday, maybe today. Question: "If I go to accompany one of those older people who, say, is already moving harder, even walks only on crutches and uses me only as an excellent driver of that complex vehicle, a shopping cart to move between those shelves, do we need 30 square meters, or will we just settle for the fifteen?" I would very much like to help those people I helped, and I only go shopping as the driver who brilliantly passes through the shelves, buys and leaves quite quickly. It'll speed up time and allow other people to take our shopping cart, maybe disinfect it and go to that favorite shopping circle that we all have to go through, unfortunately. So may I accompany such a person? Or do we need 30 square feet at that point and each of our shopping carts? Yesterday was very illogical. So there's a lot of illogists here, and it needs to be dealt with. Fourth point - illogicality of setting exceptions in the provision of services. Let me give you one more example of that routine. One Korean vehicle salesman, I don't want to say any brand, has a car dealership. Autosalons - Car sales are forbidden, so it's closed. But vehicle repairs are permitted. He as a service offers, and does most of these vendors, offering seasonal tire replacements and storage of these tires. So you have them with him, so if you shut it all down, people are on summers today. It's a good thing this didn't happen. So he's gonna make a phone call for the tire change, set him time. He'll come, say, at 10:30, hand over his car, they'll tell him you'll be done by 11:00. He sits in that lobby, sits there for ten minutes, looks at those brochures, walks around in those cars, maybe picks up a car, watches and asks for details. So he's been inside that space the whole time he's been in there wearing a mask, waiting for one or two customers, depending on the capacity of the tire shop. Inside they may be there, but there can't be anyone else who wants to come and say: I'm interested in buying a new car at the end of the year. Because it's a different type of customer, he'd like to buy a car, he doesn't just want to change tires, or he just wants to change tires. oil exchange. What's the logic? I absolutely miss it because of the big car show, if you've ever been there, it's one open space where you have several tables, or if you want bulkheads, and one says the receipt of vehicles, the other says the sale of vehicles, one is, I don't know what it says. But that's not important anymore. It's just one open space. Why can't I come as a customer and buy a motor vehicle and support this economy you're talking about, but can I change the tires? If you can answer me logically, I'd be very happy. Another new example - dog salons. You opened the door. Yes, I understand. The ladies complain that dogs have claws, cats too, it needs to be cut, poodles cut nicely. Okay, I get it. But why can't we people also go under certain conditions that were set in the spring, and I think they worked? And entrepreneurs in these services were able to adapt and prove that they could. Why can't I make an appointment for a specific time and come and get a haircut? I don't get it. If it takes another six months or a year, we'll all be like... some colleagues with hair up to half their backs. Or we'll all buy a machine and take it to zero millimeters or one millimeter. That's probably the fastest solution. But if that's how you want it, let's just take out the hairdressers, pedicures and others. Because these are all segments that can be set. And if they can't be set, then how come it could have been set in the spring and it could have worked, and it can't be set now? If you can explain this to me logically, I'd be happy to hear it. So I can give you dozens of such nonsense, bans and exceptions. I think these two might be enough for you. The fact that you didn't really learn from your mistakes in the spring and you have to repeat them again, I don't understand at all. In his opening act, the Prime Minister said that the return to activities, the normal activities, would not occur in the coming months. I heard that very, very well. So that means there won't be any skiing, there won't be any hairdressers, there won't be anything else, because they're basically normal activities of normal life. But it needs to be told to these people. That's what we need to tell these people to prepare for it. [[I said probably.]] The Prime Minister says probably. Okay. With as much probability as it doesn't happen. Hard lockdown, soft lockdown. Something just works. The Prime Minister appealed to the citizens. Prime Minister, appeal to your own ministers as well. First of all. So that each of them doesn't say anything different. That's not what the Minister of Health says, and unfortunately, that's not what we hear from the Super Minister, who will say something completely different again. Those citizens, if they are to trust your government that we tolerate, they also want to have clear information and would also like to know and would also like to have a unified position of this government. I understand that you are two political parties and cannot agree, but at least the ministers of one political entity, who are probably not members, but who are nominees for your movement, should speak with the same mouth. It has also been mentioned here, Minister of Health, tracing. How it works or doesn't work. Of course, I don't want to judge. But I'll give you my own example again. I was positive for covid because my wife called me, so I came home, I ran tests. They told me I was positive. Sorry. They didn't tell me. I ran tests on Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Basically nothing, I was waiting. So I called my doctor, and the nurse said to me, "Yes, you're positive. I didn't get any text messages, I didn't get a call from the health department, no one's been talking to me the whole time. No one, I say, nobody. In addition to my contact with my practical physician, respectively. with his medical staff, with a physician who died on my covid as well. So I don't know how the tracer works or doesn't work. I looked into my list, called my friends, who I spoke to the day before I left for the Chamber of Deputies, and I urged them to go. They went, they were all negative. I called on my almost 80-year-old father to submit, unfortunately he was positive, but he survived in health, which I am very happy about. So I don't know how the tracking works. Ninety-nine percent success rate, zero contact with me. Nobody ever talked to me. I've been at home for 14 days, calmly, without any problems. So it's just about your tracking. Well, what's the current role of the Central Crisis Staff? Mr. Home Secretary is not here as head of the Central Crisis Staff. You know, you may wonder now that the MP who tolerates this government is criticizing you in this way. You know, we don't have any information. Minutes from the Central Crisis Staff as Vice-Chairman of the Security Committee and its member were requested by the Central Crisis Staff, respectively. To the Home Secretary, since spring. Since spring. And the chairman of the Security Committee, Mr Radek Koten, can tell you how many times we've written to the Home Office to send us the minutes. We received the first minutes after an emergency during yesterday's draft state budget, Chapter 314, yesterday afternoon. About 18 or 16 entries. All at once, even from spring, all now. Until now, as the closest partner to the Home Office, the Security Committee, we had no information. [[9.50 hours]] In the spring, representatives of the opposition had the opportunity to delegate their representatives to the Central Crisis Staff. I mentioned, it was me, it was my colleague Kaňkovský, and now I don't see him here. It was Mr. Senator Červíček for ODS and Dr. Šmucler for, I think, the top. When the new Central Crisis Staff was established, we came to the Ministry of the Interior to see if this participation will be renewed and it will work. We waited a week, we waited a month, I talked to the Minister several times. The minister told me the Prime Minister didn't want it. If you don't want it, then don't be surprised we don't have the information to criticize you, fall for it. You want our votes from us. You need our votes for some government. And if it's so hard for you and me to have information from the Central Crisis Staff meeting, I don't understand how you want to continue to rule. At the end of my speech, I note that after the general debate, Mr President, we will take a break from the club's meeting, where we will evaluate the answers to those, say, four or five questions and decide how we will vote on the request for consent to extend the emergency period. Until then, don't expect any dates from us, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u15	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank Members Zdeněk Ondráček for the opinion of the club KSČM. Now with Mrs Pekarová Adamová's priority right, then Mr Jurečka's colleague and then Minister Blatný with priority rights. Then perhaps we can get to the usual debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been dealing with an emergency since this year, extending it, in the Chamber of Deputies, how many times? About the fourth time, the fifth time? I can't remember how many times if I take it with spring, how many times it is. You'd think the government had enough of the lessons from the previous requests. But unfortunately, it doesn't match the current draft that we have here, because the amount of irregularities that we've gotten in the material that we've gotten ahead of us may still be increasing. It's incomprehensible to me. The request isn't even up to date. There are a number of things that are no longer valid today, e.g. On page 3, it is still stated that the current measure also includes a ban on the presentation of teaching on all types of schools. So we know that yesterday, she's back for first and second grade. There are a number of other irregularities and errors. This is a beautiful example of how the government deals with the emergency situation and with this fundamental intervention as well as the fundamental rights of people in the Czech Republic. It's not worth the support you're giving us and you're coming up with an extension request for another month to do properly. It's sloppy, and once again, a whole series of information is completely absent. I think it is important for you to mention that, as the extension last took place, we will certainly not accept that you will sit and remain silent all the time, or even withdraw completely from this House again, and to all the questions, suggestions and suggestions that are really from everywhere, from all sides, you will not answer and give your opinion. That is a completely unacceptable approach. And you've really gambled here for a long time, but this time you're putting it up again with people's confidence that you know what you're doing, that the application is justified and that the government has a chance at getting the epidemic under control. And I say, to get the epidemic under control, because, of course, despite more positive figures in the last few days, it still isn't. Let's start with the system that was introduced, which carries the shortcut of PES, and which requires at all stages that an emergency situation be taken, so that the emergency situation persists, otherwise the measures cannot be taken. I, on the one hand, thank you and thank you to Minister of Health Blatný for finally seeing a more clear approach and a more transparent system after these many months. On the other hand, it would be fair to say quite frankly that the emergency situation provided we have this approach here will be at least until spring. That by spring at least, you'll be asking that we continue to prolong the emergency and have it. I think you're afraid to say that, whether the Prime Minister or the various ministers, because you know how much distaste for the public emergency is beginning to reign. And that week by week is bigger and bigger, and even you will surely receive those messages from citizens who say, for God's sake, don't prolong the emergency any more a day, let alone a month. But it's fair to say that a lot of people don't have a very clear idea of what the emergency situation necessarily contains and what it doesn't mean, and that doesn't mean that all these measures have to apply. That all the restrictions that are today are here all the time in an emergency, that they can gradually ease themselves. That's fair to admit and say. Our essential requirement for the PES system is that there be a condition in it that will not require an emergency. That means, even the so-called level. zero, if we respect the current layout for which there will be no need for an emergency situation at all. And even the system access at stage one should be without emergency. I think that this revision plus a number of the little things and illogical things that are in it would be necessary so that it could be considered serious. But it is also essential that the system, when it has been created, also applies and that there is no shelling from government benches themselves. I consider this to be an important signal for people's confidence that you discussed the system very closely at first, even with opponents, you discussed it with individual influences, associations and all those involved, so that, in turn, it is actually decorated so much that you will be behind it into one state. For us, this requirement is one of the absolutely essential ones so that we can support any length of emergency at all, and I would advise in advance that 30 days will definitely not support the TOP 09. Why? It is also important to mention that we here in previous emergency delays, but in dealing with the corona crisis, we, as the House, have adopted a number of resolutions binding the government on certain steps. I have looked at how these resolutions are implemented by the government, and indeed the government would not stand to one. A number of these resolutions, even in September, are still not fulfilled, for example, which called on the government to communicate better and to fight misinformation, and many others. That is why I am calling for a full motion for a resolution, which includes even those which are not yet fulfilled, although those deadlines have long passed. The logic of the measures that I think must be essential in order for people to have confidence in them and to be willing to follow them has been lost in the last few days, even with the very often laid down measures regarding the number of persons on the sales area. We saw the front footage yesterday, which was formed, and I'm sure not one of us is wondering why the area chosen is now allowed to enter the store by the customer. I think, at least, the Minister of Health, I wouldn't be so sure about that with the Prime Minister, sometimes he took the bus lately, or the subway, just some sort of means of transport. I drive it regularly and I know that people can't and do not logically keep a distance of two meters, and these are, for example, in a closed car or bus, where there is no possibility of having open windows, or often there is no way to talk about such an area or such space where air circulates as it does in a large supermarket, shopping centre, etc. [[10.00 hours]] That's why it seems to me that the logic here in this particular requirement is very dubious in this case, even if we do the math, and I had to freshen up a little bit, I admit that if we're going to stick to the space of the elementary school, that if we're going to follow the two-meter spacing, then actually, if we're going to follow this basic rule that's already going to follow us since spring, which probably few people are going to question, which is going to be observed all over the world, where covide is fighting, it would be an area of 3.14 meters per person. There could be a lot more customers right in the shops, quickly making the purchases they need, and they could go home shopping again, while they wait this long in queues where sometimes they do, and sometimes they don't, the two-meter spacing is respected. The whole situation gets very complicated, and it doesn't make sense to anyone. Moreover, according to the statistics that have been published, the most common environment in which the disease is taking place is not even in the purchases, nor in the travel that I mentioned, but it is most often in the workplace and at home. So this is the largest proportion where it really accounted for tens of percent of the confirmed transmissions of the disease. So in order for such a measure to be taken, so do these numbers of yours, these facts that have been published, which are traceable, and so I am not surprised by the retailers and retailers who have closed their business since 22 October now, that they see it as a big discrimination. Likewise, the measure that abolishes the possibility of selling on Sunday and therefore drives people into business even more in the remaining six days and does not allow the spread to be extended, makes great sense and in my opinion does not make a great deal of sense. Therefore, I also ask you to reconsider these specific measures and, if necessary, to proceed promptly to their revision and even in the PES itself, in this system, to look at and review these specific fields here. Our demands that we at all be willing to consider extending the emergency situation result, and will therefore be part of the resolution, from what is now the most difficult to deal with. I am convinced that a number of people, and I am repeatedly stressing this here, who are economically affected by the situation that is going on, that is, they are forbidden to make money, they are basically really balancing on the edge of economic survival today, and many have fallen into the abyss as well as the fact that the aid provided by the state is extremely slow. The clear instruction should have been the quicker, the better, and it's not happening again, even now in the fall. I tried to get up-to-date information about how many compensatory bonuses have already been settled, how many people have already received it, and unfortunately, when addressing the authorities responsible, including the Ministry, we have not been able to obtain such information with my colleagues. That is why I want - one of those resolutions that we are going to adopt today, I firmly hope you will support - from the government to 1 December - and I think that this is a sufficient time horizon, you have enough time to process it - an overview of government compensation, including information on the average length of processing of applications. And I want you to take all necessary measures to ensure that the length of administration of these compensations is as short as possible. They write us dozens, hundreds of desperate people a day who still haven't seen any help, but since October 22, they couldn't, couldn't, were forbidden to earn even a crown. They also have their children, they need to feed them, they also have their rents and mortgages, and few of them, of course, have to somehow solve the costs, fixed costs of their business. Not everyone is allowed to get help because not all programs apply to them and often they are excluded, using one or pumping one rules out the pumping of another, so the nervousness and frustration between people really grows day by day. And then, of course, what it will do, this dangerous cocktail, I guess I don't have to say. This is one of the basic things. Unfortunately, the Minister of Culture has left, but one of those COVID - Culture programs, namely COVID - Culture II, also concerns exactly tradesmen and people who have been employed in culture, who are often since spring, or if they have not had a winter season, so maybe since last year without income, and dealing with these applications, because the Ministry of Culture is just processing them and moving on to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it has still not been started in its own way, the payment of these aids has not started. There's a review of the Úohs, which few people understand. I wonder if it is happening to speed up this process, to make the decision as quickly as possible, within a reasonable period of time, and those people actually began to receive the aid. This is another of the resolutions that I will propose, namely the request to accelerate the start of payment of applications from COVID - Culture II, which you have not yet begun to pay. Furthermore, we will certainly require a clear timetable for the government to communicate as the children return to school. I think the information should be clear, and both schools and parents, students and children themselves are very lacking in this information, and education should come first for us. With regard to compensation for the people who are most affected, whether it is a compensatory bonus or any of those programmes, it is not enough in itself to accept, as was allowed in the spring, the remission of contributions. It's already been said, but if we give someone $15,000 and we just take one third of it away from him, that's not much help. Therefore, one of our demands and one of those resolutions will be for the government to submit, by 3 December again, a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to forgive contributions to health and social insurance for self-employed persons and also for employees, where they were actually allowed in this way on the basis of Act 461/2020 Coll. for a compensation bonus. [[Claims?]] We simply want to simply and briefly restore what has already been done, because otherwise these people do not really get much help and have nothing to pay for the contributions. This requirement is absolutely essential, and I think we should stop playing the part where we can't judge whether or not someone has a right to it. Not everyone is affected by the current situation as well, that is true, but if someone is entitled to a compensatory bonus under that law, he would not automatically have to pay the contributions. Simple, simple, easy to manage. There's no room for excuses. This is another of the specific demands that we will definitely enforce today. [[10.10 hours]] And I'm getting to a few others that relate to the health sector. Everyone now holds their sight and hopes for vaccines, for vaccinations to occur, but it needs to be well prepared for the state and then be able to carry them out when the vaccine is available. It is not a simple task, because if a large part of the population is to be inoculated, the Minister states, if I am not mistaken, between 65 and 70 percent, it is obviously also a great logistical task, and it is necessary that the government has a prepared vaccination plan for the citizens of the Czech Republic today, which will take into account the risk groups and those groups that are to be vaccinated prematurely, and that this plan should be published, and that once the vaccine is available, it can be started. Therefore, one of the resolutions that we are going to put forward will also concern the requirement for this specific plan and the registration of citizens who are interested in vaccination against COVID-19 could already be administered. Finally, let me summarize that, at a time when we are required to reduce the rights of people who are, of course, in an emergency situation, it is also necessary to evaluate the measures and regulations that apply. And as it happens in these documents of yours, it is indeed insufficient. Therefore, I will propose that the government present, at least one day before the end of the emergency situation, a report not only on the proposed follow-up, but also an evaluation of all existing measures. Really evaluation, not only a statement of what is true, what is ordered, which is often not complete or not true and current enough. This is an absolutely fundamental thing that can improve the ability to cope with the epidemic and get it under control. Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 will support all these conditions by one, extending the emergency for a maximum of 14 days, which would mean if I counted correctly, 4. 12th end of emergency and any other solution, whether we extend it or not. But at that time, the Chamber of Deputies will be sitting, and there is no reason for us today to give a blank check to the government for 30 days, especially when we see that it itself is unable to stand up for a whole series of its actions, one minister is questioning the other's actions, and the measures often lack basal logic. Therefore, the basis is to fix things, including the so-called dog, to say fairly how it is with the prediction of an emergency state, for how long you would need it, if we see the evolution of the epidemic as it is today, and also to be able to reflect the reality of all those who are very heavily affected and who really today in terms of economic survival are already absolutely on the brink. [[PES]] For such people, and no wonder, it is probably very hard to expect them to have patience with all these measures. That's just the way things are. And we can't hold it against them, either, because at that point, the basic balance of them is what matters if they feed their families, if they survive their business, what they'll do for a living in months and years to come. They need more help than they do today. And especially to step on the gas right in this area, to step on the gas so as to help them really efficiently and quickly. Otherwise, there are really large social consequences, from which we will recover much longer than from the epidemic itself. And I hope no one wants that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. That was Mrs Pekarová Adamová. We will continue the discussion by speaking with the priority right of President Marian Jurečka. Minister Plaga will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, colleagues, to begin with, outside the subject of this meeting here, I would like to say that - some of you have noticed this - I would like to apologise to my colleagues and colleagues here in the House for what I "kept" on Monday night, when I unwittingly put my beer at the window in the cup. If I had known that I was violating government regulations and realized it, I wouldn't have bought that beer, and I certainly wouldn't have put it on social media myself, so I'm sorry. I am sorry, and I will try to avoid such mistakes in the future. However, now what awaits us from the point of view of discussing this extraordinary meeting to prolong the emergency situation. The government's coming up with a 30-day proposal. I must say that I appreciate, on the one hand, that the Minister of Health spoke here in addition to the Prime Minister, but I would very much like to see the Minister of the Interior as President of the Central Crisis Staff, as well as at least the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Education, because these are areas which are very affected by the measures that we are going to discuss here and which are linked to the extension of the emergency situation. It's not just my opinion, but it's the opinion of a huge number of people who turn to us from parents, businessmen, teachers, health professionals, social services workers. All these people would like us to convey their views here, to note that these ministers, not only the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, also respond and give an answer. I have to say, I'm sorry that some of the things in this House took place a few weeks or months ago as they were. I think the first wave has taken us all by surprise. And there's no dramatic reproach here that the government would make a fundamental mistake. Everyone tried to do the best possible in the situation. Yes, in some moments it could have done better, but I think that if anybody were in the ranks of any party, they would have dealt with similar problems within the framework that it was something that was unexpected, it was for the first time etc. However, when the situation came in July and we saw the story of OKD and Karvinsko, then here at the House, not only were there specific topics coming in, suggestions that there was no smart quarantine, we didn't work testing, tracking, but we talked about the need to make a security law, that we needed to change things legislatively and learn from it. And then there were also words from the Prime Minister's mouth that there is no way that we can afford any second wave here, we cannot afford to shut down the economy and society again, so-called lockdown, because it will simply be a huge intervention not only in the state budget, but in the life of this country with huge impacts. And we've all been trying to communicate here so that we can set up the measures so that we can learn from this so that we don't go through another second wave. This too was discussed in the House's attic during September. I asked the Prime Minister on 8 September to establish the Central Crisis Staff, we offered for KDU-ČSL and we repeatedly offer doctors to a colleague of Vít Kaňkovský, who, I think, when he was a member of the Central Crisis Staff in the first wave, came for us with a lot of important suggestions, proposals and measures. I think it was also important for mutual communication that, at the moment when the opposition party was represented in the Central Crisis Staff, so we were much more drawn into what was happening, why it was happening, what measures were being taken, and we had information, so to speak, firsthand. And unfortunately, that hasn't happened right now, and it's not even up to now. I have officially asked the Home Secretary to comply and to accept the nomination of my colleague Vít Kaňkovský. I don't have an answer for that tonight. I think that's a shame. 17. 9. When the numbers began to grow dramatically during September, I am sorry, Prime Minister, that you sent us here in such an arrogant way, say, to go deal with the law of gardening and not to deal with the covid that you are dealing with it and that you are handling it well. I think the whole country knows your statement that we're the best in covid, but unfortunately, if we look at the numbers to date, we've had 6 740 deaths. We've been through 475 284 cases of confirmed covid infection. And thank God we also have 367 574 healed. This is mainly due to the enormous efforts of people who work in health and social services and in recent weeks also due to the great efforts of volunteers, people who have decided beyond their other obligations to help an overloaded system. Please, don't knock down the House, don't knock down the opposition by dealing with garden law, but also trying to see that there are parties - and KDU-ČSL are clearly reporting to this - which are ready to help attach a hand not only in the field of legislative, but also in the area of cooperation and work within the Central Crisis Staff. [[10.20 hours]] I also want to thank the Minister of Health here, who has boarded a very difficult train. I think that who has ever been a minister or experienced how the ministry works must realize that in such a situation as a minister, I dare say that there were not many such cases in the history of the Czech Republic. I also understand the complexity of having a huge media interest here in the first few days, that it is not always easy to communicate some things, as even a person ideally imagines. But what I would very much like in the future to change and correct, Minister, when you introduced the measures and the PES table, the anti-epidemiological system, if these things could be discussed not only with people from the ministries, from the university environment, but also with representatives of the disciplines involved, that is to say, representatives representing the retail sector, representatives representing teachers and other types of professions, so that these measures would be really tuned and not becoming the subject of various jokes, but above all misunderstood in part of society, and therefore even questioning measures and their effectiveness. I'll remind you of one joke I had this morning, and that's a graphic joke, a graduation question for Cermat, when we ask students there that 30 people can fit in a 450 sqm store, so how many people can fit in a 30 sqm bus. And so people point out that they really don't understand some of the measures set up, and it would be worth saying how that number happened and why, in other parts, whether it's mass traffic or other moments, people's concentration is much greater, and when people have a drape, why the measures change like that. It would also be good if the Minister of Industry and Trade here were able to also respond to why purchases in business chains have been going on in the way they have been, and why they are now coming up with such a dramatic change, which means I am not saying that for all, but for many supermarkets relatively long queues. Why do we receive suggestions from people, from mothers who may have had problems with going to a supermarket with a stroller, in one hand a stroller, in the other hand a second child and cannot take a cart, people who may be losing French sticks also have problems with having a wheelchair, for example. So these are things that would really be good to tune in more, to communicate more. What we hear most often from people, and I think they are completely justified and justified comments and challenges. In addition to the fact that some measures do not give them logic, as well as many of us here in the Chamber of Deputies, it is a question that when the government creates an environment by these measures and by extending the state of emergency, that the measures will prolong, it is not sufficient to help people to whom it will significantly limit their source of income. This means that compensation is not adequate. And I would very much like this to change. I cannot answer to people why they, as the CFI, cannot combine forms of support, why the House here has not adopted amendments that would allow this, whether from the KDU-ČSL pen or some other entities. I find it hard to match the people who work in the, say, art and culture industry. It's a sector that didn't breathe in during the holidays, because there was still restrictions on cultural events. I meet people who have spent years doing things like lighting and sound at cultural events, maybe 30 employees, and they don't know what the future and perspective is and if they're going to let these people go. I meet businessmen who today have a choice between either exercising a compensation bonus for themselves or using Antivirus support for their employees. I meet businessmen who have a pub, they have a wife at home, they have little kids, my wife's on maternity and parental, and they're bringing in 10 grand today, my wife's about five. How do you make it out of it long-term? There is no reference to savings, as the Minister of Justice once told them to have cotton wool. These people may have had some savings before the first wave, but now many of them don't have any cotton at all, as the secretary said. I can't explain to my parents why they can go to Tesco, Lidl to buy a jacket, shoes, or buy tools, drugstores, paper supplies today, but I can't explain why other types of shops that offer this, even if they keep 15 square meters per customer, must be closed. I can't explain it, just like I can't answer my parents why they have to go to Saxony to buy the equipment for the winter, whether it's shoes, winter jackets or the like. That just doesn't make any sense to me, and I'd like somebody in this government to say it or say it: we realize it, we're preparing a change to make it logical. I think it is not sustainable that there are open chains that sell a much wider range in addition to food, and other small-scale businesses in the municipalities, have been shut down in the cities and receive compensation, which is definitely not adequate to the state. It's hard to explain. Similarly, we cannot explain why dog and kitty salons open, but there is no similar service offered to people. I think that even there would be a way to set up measures that would clearly give safety to traffic. I don't know how many covid transmissions took place in the barbershop and hair salon. It is not a very simple situation for these people, although we can do without it for some time, but it would be good to say what the vision will be, how it will work in the future. What I also encounter and what I often encounter, and please remember, there are things when people leave this world. I perceive that many paramedics are doing their utmost to make it possible to say goodbye to these people in the last few hours, to make certain contact with those close to them, not always possible, I understand. But I also hear a call saying that these people might want to be able to see the deceased before they bury him. And here's the question, is there any way to deal with this, so that even funeral services, funeral homes can make these things possible to a reasonable degree? I don't know. Mr. Secretary, if you can respond to that, or to Secretary Dostálová, under whom the funeral home belongs. I think it would be good and useful. I can hardly explain to people who ask me when they look at a table of measures within the PES, why it looks in the outlook that church services will not be possible in the coming weeks, but theoretically a concert for a limited number of people will be possible there. This is also very difficult to respond to. And I would like to remember that when measures were made, the concentration of people on the premises in shops, do something similar for churches, because this is not just about people who believe, but also about people who are coming to the funeral to say goodbye to someone close to them, to someone in the family, and so on. I confess, when the arrangements were made for ten people at the funeral, my parents, who have five children, twenty-two grandchildren, and we have husbands and wives, I don't know how we would deal with this issue. And if I remember correctly, in the first wave these limiting parameters did not apply to these very important moments in life. So please also try to consider this nicely and jam these changes into some next update. I'll be getting close to the end. What do I want to highlight? What would be good for us to accomplish? What do we perceive as important in KDU-ČSL? I've already talked about it on these examples. So that the restrictive measures are understandable, understandable and effective. I will underline this efficiency because I liked the Koronerv's approach, when the team of people also made a table where they calculated the effectiveness of individual measures, when we restrict society and the economy, and they put against that the costs that society will have to bear. And I think it would be a good idea to connect these things with each other and say yes, the pandemic is developing somehow, let's deal with some measures that we can regulate and slow down the spread, but at the same time we will choose which, in addition to the efficiency of society, will cost us least. And I don't think it's going very well yet, so please, we see it as necessary. Once again, I return to helping those we limit because we protect the lives of the entire society is also that we protect their livelihood. So, please, a nice government: review the amount of aid that the businesses, parents, single families, and small businesses are currently being offered by the government. It sounded like it's been here a couple of times. I don't think it's fair to say "we're giving them 15,000 crowns" when 5,000 crowns must be returned to the tradesmen immediately. It's not fair when small companies can draw support on employees, or even themselves, but a businessman who employs people can't do that. So I'm asking you to change that, too. There's quite a lot of tools to do that, how to move the drafts, some of them to forgive, there's quite a lot of them, we translated them as KDU-ČSL and as opposition, so use it. Just as I think it's important to remember the people who are on the deal. [[10.30 hours]] The protection of the most affected groups is often mentioned. I don't think there's a way to buy overpriced antigen tests where they don't really know who and why they ordered them. But much better is cooperation and offering financial support for social service providers so that testing can be carried out quickly and efficiently. And this is related to setting up the entire testing system, tracking, smart quarantine, using the eRouse app. The Minister has said a little bit about this, but I would like to hear from him, from the Prime Minister, or from Mr Dzurilla, whether we are ready in capacity after about eight months, technically so that we can say that the testing and tracing system is fully operational and has 100% capacity coverage. Please nicely, since we are limiting the economy, I would also like us to go along the way that we support forms that can reduce the spread of the video most and most effectively. If the figures are published that the most frequent transmission takes place in contact with a job, I would like the government to respond to this, so that it is not just any recommendation that companies should, but please give a nice government, Prime Minister, please encourage companies to have some motivation where possible to leave people at home office. Put in some financial support or relief for employers. But it's one of the most effective ways to promote and expand the home office. And, of course, also solve the legislative difficulties of work under the home office regime. I think that even if the state said that it was ready to support companies financially, to motivate the cost of testing, the cost of protective equipment, that it would also have a great effect. I don't know if anyone's been doing that in depth. I have information from a number of companies where employers who are very aware who support it, and then I also hear sometimes that employees are called on not to introduce their colleagues from work, etc. And why is that happening? It's because everyone's worried that if the company stops, it won't actually have enough financial compensation to survive it. So the vessels are very connected, whether we give compensation and hope to people that they can do it even if they stay home for some time. Please try to better tune these scales as well. And what I think makes sense is to inspire Wan. I know that for some members of the government the word Taiwan is very complicated because they feel that if they admitted that we could be inspired by it, it would upset some people at the Castle or Beijing. But when we see a country that can go through an epidemic like this without having to shut down schools, economics and society, I think it's worth looking for. And I'm about to get close to my finale. Too bad Minister Plaga isn't here. I think support for schools, teachers and parents at this time is very important. And what's completely forgotten from the government's point of view, Prime Minister, is the answer to the question of who's running distance lessons now. I don't know if you're aware of this, but did the government or the Ministry of Education give teachers a data package? Teachers teach it on their own data! They're paying for it themselves! I don't think the Prime Minister is listening. But I really don't know about any measure that the Ministry of Education would say, we're going to give teachers unlimited data for distance learning. At least then will the schools and the ministry give them some kind of financial reward at the end of the year for doing it on their laptops, on their devices, on their dates? Is the government aware of this? At least in Slovakia, the government did what it did to call operators, and those operators took a step towards making the unlimited data available to them in agreement with the government. Operators have increased data tariffs for children in Slovakia. Do you understand that there is a situation in families where you have three or four children in your family, and parents do not have four or five tablets or laptops or computers, that they take turns and that even in that distance teaching there are situations where children in the family cannot complete the full range of distance teaching during the morning because they have to take turns at the facilities? Like it's not enough to say that a lump sum has been sent somewhere, but we need to see if it can be handled in reality and work. So please take a good look, government, even at this problem. We can't solve it as the House, but I think it's very intense. And please look for the system tools for the future, too, because we need to realize that we are still dealing with the consequences. We don't see the appropriate steps that we could say, we're starting to solve the cause. And we can't just rely on the vaccine. There are offers of technology companies, Czech nanotechnology associations. Minister, I don't know if you know about the offer to participate in technical and technological solutions in places where there are large concentrations of people - schools, kindergartens, social facilities, health care. [[Health]] Even there, technological possibilities can address this. I suppose you have that awareness, but I have signals that sometime in July, there was an offer from these people both at the Ministry of Health and at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but basically no one talked to them very much. So if this could also be moved forward, so that we can also reduce the risk of transmission of the covid. And then I think that there are instruments that are more likely to be communication, motivational, but an appeal to strengthen people's immunity, to their health lifestyle, to greater resilience if they already get covid to do it better, even without the need to use the health system. I was trying to be constructive. I tried to describe what we are most often dealing with, whether people from individual fields or directly from individual groups of inhabitants. And that's what I was trying to do here today. I would very much like it if not only the Minister, but if you too, Prime Minister, or the other members of the government who will show up here in the next few hours, even some of the things I have said here, would respond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u19	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. The Minister of Health of the Government of the Czech Republic Jan Blatný will now perform with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a number of inspiring questions and topics for discussion. I'll try to answer them to satisfy you. I wrote them gradually, and because some of them repeated, some of my answers may be repeated. I will comment on this first and several times, whether or not there is a reason to amend those recommendations as provided for in the existing matrix of measures. From my point of view, there's really no reason for them to change now. And not only do I not consider it necessary, but it is also our attempt to apply for citizens' trust. On the other hand, I completely understand what Minister Havlíček said yesterday because he responded to a situation that seemed like a crisis during the morning. It didn't work out in the end. But please consider it his contribution to the debate that will take place tomorrow at the government. And I believe that we can make a good deal and that the government's position will be united and unambiguous. And for the Ministry of Health, I'm just saying that I'm gonna recommend that the table be finalized so that we don't make changes at short intervals, because I think it would not only reduce citizens' confidence, but actually make it worse how the whole system can work. Repeatedly, there are questions here and quite logically raised about the fact that there is disparagement, or inequality, between individual traders, and that when colonials or large shops are opened, that all others could be opened, in fact, under hygienic conditions. As I understand it, please just point out that by doing so, we would increase the number of establishments that would be open extremely. And that is something that would increase citizens' mobility in an extreme way, because when, instead of going into one store, I go to ten or five stores, it will naturally manifest itself in the number of contacts and mobility. And that's what we don't want right now. We're really trying to get everyone to be measured the same way. Yes, it is true that large chains do not respect that because they have majority food sales, so they take advantage of the ability to sell other things. But it is not an attempt and priori to question the legitimate requirements of Czech entrepreneurs in any way or to put them at a disadvantage. A similar approach, please note, has most countries that have introduced restrictions. In all these countries it is very similar and most often completely identical. [[10.40 hours]] There was a question as to how the whole measure and its functioning were assessed. This is why the PES system you have all talked about has been developed, and this allows, among other things, data collection that is continuously applicable for evaluation. And I said, shortly after I joined office, that I wanted to create an advisory body, or a group, a grémium, as you would call it, a minister, in which representatives of all parliamentary political parties, representatives of all areas, chambers, economic, medical, Union of industry, etc., will be representatives of health committees. That's what we've been working on ever since. The status of this body has been established, and I am doing everything I can to ensure that all the institutions concerned can still be contacted during this or early next week. And I assume that this grémium will meet regularly, at least once a week, and it will be a place where everyone will learn this information firsthand. I am not illusioned that we always agree on everything, but I am trying to do everything I can to ensure that information is transferred across society and that it is possible to take into account opinions that are often as different as possible. As to how long the PES system is supposed to be valid, and the fact that it doesn't actually have a zero level. The system is designed to guide us through an epidemic. The moment we can say that it has been fully controlled, this system can be abandoned and converted into standard tools. Just as I would like to point out, as much as none of us wishes that the system has five ranges, but if something happens that is unexpected, and no one really wants it, there may even be a risk that is greater than stage five. That's why I'm just saying that this system covers the segment of these events as we can now imagine and how we can define it. I'll come back to that in reply to further questions. As far as testing is concerned, just for your information, I will repeat that currently, when most tests are carried out around 30 to 35 thousand per day, most of them are still using the PCR method, for example during yesterday more than 40,000 requests were issued with a request for testing, so at prices currently valid, this is the sum that is close to 2 billion per month, because it is 30,000 times roughly 2,000 per day. This means that these are huge funds, which, of course, are not comparable to what we would lose if we stopped the whole economy for a day, but it's not small money, and it needs to be spent meaningfully. That is why we clone together with the other countries of the European Union so that the more rapid, antigenic tests are used, but they do not replace PCR tests in all cases. They are to be combined to achieve optimal results at optimal cost. You asked if there was an adequate and comparable function of individual sanitary stations and whether they were prosecuting in quotation marks. They're currently prosecuting, I've already said it, the traceability is almost 100 percent, but there are differences between them. And it works very well thanks to the support of the central management team, the smart quarantine system and the upcoming Wolverine system. This is run by the government's attorney, Mr. Dzurilla. I would like to add to what many of you Members have said here. I would like to thank the people, all the people, both those who buy and those who sell, businessmen, entrepreneurs and traders for their excellent and responsible behaviour. Yes, you're all right, the thanks are due to them in particular, and without their responsible behavior, no one would have done anything, and we wouldn't have gotten the epidemic under control. The emergency situation is not what should delay elective performance, as stated here. On the contrary, it is also the reason why we are asking for an emergency so that we can fully release hospitals as soon as possible and allow the care of others who do not have coronavirus. When quoted here, I suspect the first of the speakers, that everything can be managed only by regional sanitation stations, then I dare not agree, because the way existing legal standards are set, then regional sanitation stations are entitled to implement regulations and in some way influence people's lives only in the fires, they are not entitled to implement surface measures. The next question was how the elderly homes and similar devices bought the tests for their own use will be handled. Given the manner in which the remuneration was set, and I was assured of it by the insurance companies, even where they bought these tests with their money, so the moment they're showing this performance, they should be paid not only for this performance, but also for the tests, if necessary. It's not gonna be a lot of numbers, but it's a thought, and it's an attempt to solve it that way. There was a question of some assumption about what will happen during Christmas, what will happen later, and also a question about when there will finally be a complete equalization or uniformisation of conditions for all traders, businessmen. With this please count level three. At that point, while certain measures still apply, the restriction on the fact that only stores or establishments with a selected range or services are restricted is abolished. That means, from level three, everyone can go buy shoes, they can go fix them, they can go to the hairdresser's atp. And in the most optimal option, it's possible that this is going to happen 30. 11. I don't promise you here, I can't, and I don't want to promise, but I'm saying it's an option we can try to make. And certainly - or certainly can never be said, but with a great degree of probability it will actually happen at pre-Christmas time. As regards the often discussed Sunday closure. Please, many of us certainly go to Germany, Austria or Poland. Many of these countries, regardless of coronavirus, are simply closed on Sundays. Somewhere it is because of faith and because people prefer to visit boží's stánek before the consumer stand, somewhere it is because there are strong unions in the country. But there are countries that have it set up that way, and I don't think people in those countries are suffering, starving or not getting anything. And knowing that for this concession, as unpleasant as it may seem to anyone, I will get one day when I will significantly reduce the mobility of all people because they are not going to go shopping, and that is one of the most common reasons why people come out of their homes in our country, so I think it's worth it. And that's why it was set like this. A question that has already been said once, I will repeat it here, because he mentioned it here in the speech of several of you. Christmas will probably be at level three, and the only way to extrapolate is from it. This will give you an answer to the question of which establishments and which shops will be opened, this will give you an answer to how the accommodation will be set up. For example, there are no restrictions on the level of three accommodation capacities. [[10.50 hours]] The actual application of those existing restrictions in shops, please, is not covered by this Regulation. That means, whether or not someone lets Mommy and the stroller in or whether someone lets or doesn't let the customer in with his own basket, it's really not the government's fault. That's just for setting up those stores. And I, on the other hand, have an understanding for those who actually did those settings for the first time yesterday, we're all learning, and I'm rock solidly convinced that we're going to learn this very quickly. The fact that there were no queues in most places yesterday is a great thanks to all the shoppers and all those involved in how to do it, and they have my immense thanks for that. Then there was a question about the car show. Yes, what has been said here is true, but as I said, it is an attempt to bring the system into it. And the system that gives some general regulation is never able to contain all the possible alternatives that we can come up with here. I could think of a few more, too. So, yes, it's true, but there's nothing else we can do about it, because we're not taking all the alternatives into any emergency measure. And I say again, if we open the car showrooms, then a number of other people will appear immediately, who will have a legitimate request for why their establishment is not there. Very similar is the case with hairdressers and other body care. It is not possible to distinguish such establishments from other establishments by any standard. And the moment I open the hairdressers, why don't I open the pedicures? Why wouldn't I open a shoemaker or someone who fixes shoes or fixes keys? That's when the whole system would fall. Again from level 3 all these establishments can work without restrictions, only with those hygienic-epidemiological regimes and the number of people per metre Thursday. And I also point out that for all traders in this category, any measures for opening hours are disappearing. So if anyone wants to be open 24 hours a day, no one's gonna stop them. There was also a question about the dog salons. It was rightly said that these are establishments which, to some extent, also provide health care for animals. And why, if we can cut a dog's hair, why can't we cut ourselves? It's understandable because the dog isn't human. That means, the moment I leave the dog there without my master, it's different than leaving the person who's been subjected to this operation for a time that may be quite long. And I'm going back again to the fact that at the moment that this restriction would fall, everyone else will rightly ask for the disappearance of the restriction. Interesting was the question about buses. I didn't take the bus long, that's right, I took the subway for the last time on November 17th. It was beautiful to see that down the stairs on Malostranská I was on the escalator alone and only a few people sat on the subway. So here is my thanks to the Pražan for how responsible they are. But the moment I can't limit it, because otherwise I'd have to shut down the public transport, the number of people on the bus, I'm not going to resign to the restrictions where I can do it! That would be pointless and counterproductive. Yes, there's a difference between a small bus and a big business center. But if I don't want urban traffic to work, I just don't have a choice. I don't think it's illogical, on the contrary, I think it's quite consistent that this is a measure that should make sense. Frequent question for the calculation of the area. The calculation of the area is based on a very simple formula. European recommendations are considering a distance of two metres, American recommendations are considering a distance of six feet. If I'm counting on standing alone at about half a square meter, then by calculating pi x r2, 2.25 meters as the radius of the circle, I'm going to get 15.9 square meters. That's the radius. I can already see all the math teachers as well as yesterday when Professor Chlíbek mentioned it at one meeting, writing e-mails and saying that it is not and that it should all be shared by two. This recommendation is based on epidemiological recommendations that I will make this 15-meter bubble around me, and I believe that I will be within that space. So it's just why we've been thinking or why we're thinking about 15 square meters. I've already talked about tests here. That means, on November 18th, the last day on which we have complete data has been issued 40,000 requests. I think that fully corresponds to the capacities we have. Capacities are currently more than 50 or 55 thousand per day for PCR investigations, but there is no reason to use them all at any cost precisely because the investigation must be meaningful. And we also need to realize how much money it costs us. It is not a problem for coronavirus to spend almost all health insurance, we could certainly do that. But coronavirus is not the only and most serious disease. It is only necessary to arrange the situation in such a way that, as currently unprecedentedly limits and affects us, it takes as short a time as possible. Situation in the country as regards how different numbers, deaths and numbers of infected are compared. Please note that the beginning of the second wave occurred in the Czech Republic much earlier than in all other countries. We are now at the beginning of the descent of the second wave, these countries are on its rise! That is why I categorically oppose the comparison of specific numbers, whether reported deaths or the numbers of infected people, because, as much as I am sorry, the numbers in these countries will go up. In our country, the numbers are starting to drop. Please wait for the comparison when everything is over! Then we'll see how the country has dealt with it, and I believe our country doesn't come out badly. I agree with the need to thank you a thousand times and one time to all the paramedics, because they make the situation work out the way it's handled. And maybe one day we'll be able to calculate how many people our health care has saved their lives. How many people haven't died because we have as great a health care as we have, I'm not going to tell you this number yet, but I'm going to be very interested in it and I'm going to try as soon as we're done with it. I thank the honourable Member, who has also kindly mentioned the appreciation of our current work, and I will do my utmost to keep it that way. I've already talked about the minister's advisory group, so I'm just pointing out that this is my first effort. It just takes a while. And the moment that every day needs to be dealt with important things, such as. today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so there will be no time for those formal ones and they will be postponed for a few days, but I'm sure it will be done soon. I was talking about shops and buses. Question: Why are we imposing restrictions now that everything is improving? Of course, the question is logical, and my answer would be yes, it should be here at the beginning of September. But there's no way I want to discount this because the system is set up. It's set up so that if God forbid we need it again, if something bad happens, we'll have to reactivate stage 4 and stage 5, in January, then it has to be set to work. And to learn from what we might have done better sooner. I was talking about dogs and cats. I'm not going back to that. The information that has been said since the last speaker is very important, and this concerns church ceremonies. I also received a letter from the Confederation of Bishops and is currently preparing a reply. [[Conferences]] Yes, it would be unprecedented if more people could come to the temple than to the service. And this will be reflected, and I am absolutely clear about the need and necessity of church ceremonies and prayers for many of our fellow citizens. Those who turn to bůh must be able to do so. As far as the treatment of the dead body is concerned, the opinion of the Ministry of Health is updated there, so that it is clear and that no one interprets it as it is not meant to be. The current opinion evaluates this disease as a disease that is not an extremely infectious disease and recommends certain measures, but does not prohibit it if the person handling the body complies with sanitary measures to manipulate it as it happens under other circumstances, including for example. hairdressing of the body or clothing. This will be updated. And I completely see the need to say goodbye to my beloved neighbor. There has already been at least a partial increase in the number of persons at this ceremony from 10 to 15 and in other risk groups it changes further. [[11.00 hours]] As far as the functions of smart quarantine and tracking are concerned, I think it is actually working very well at the moment and we have almost a hundred percent success rate of tracing. However, I draw attention to the fact that, at a time when there will again be uncontrolled spread, as it is now, for example, in a number of countries, such as Austria or Germany or some others, then please note what the leaders of these countries are saying. For example, last week, the Republic of Austria said that it was unable to match 77 percent of its contacts. That's just the way it is. Each system has its own capacity, and the moment that capacity is exceeded, the system just starts to fail. And there's nothing anyone can do about it. The system, however robust it is, must have, every natural system has its limit. I think I may have answered all or most of the questions that have been asked so far, or at least those that I've been able to write down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, Minister. And now, in the general debate, Mr Dominik Feri will speak, Mr Bojko will prepare. I'm still sorry. I am sorry, there is an application with priority rights, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip, and then Mr Dominik Feri will appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief. I listened carefully to the debate and concluded for myself that in the spring of the first wave I tried not to prolong or prolong the emergency for absolutely necessary days, so my lesson from the first wave was that when it started to relax and the emergency situation ended, we were satisfied, and the bearing of the disease of the COVID-19 pandemic did not actually go out in the Czech Republic. Remember, you who don't want to have a short memory, that at the end of August, at the beginning of September, it was saying whether it was the second wave or whether it was the first wave. That was really discussed here, I would find the links in the individual media, and we knew when we talked about it in April of this year, that the important thing is whether the bearing would go out and if we could manage the pandemic itself. Well, we didn't. It turns out that the bearing didn't go out and it's very important that we deal with the problem we have here in a different way than we did in the first wave and admit that there was a joyous celebration here on Charles Bridge, and basically we all congratulated ourselves on how excellent it is, only some who really understood it warned that the premature joy could come back to us. Why am I saying all this? Because I see that in this current situation, we have to decide whether we're going to relax quickly, whether we're going to end the emergency situation, and therefore some measures that can't be declared otherwise than in an emergency state, so that we can have that new rise in the second wave right at Christmas. And I think that I would like to wish all citizens of the Czech Republic a really quiet Christmas, I would especially wish them to health workers, firefighters, police officers, I would wish them to those who can never stop the work and are in permanent operations. And this leads me to believe that I am more inclined not to argue for one or two days or a week and to assert - because the KSČM parliamentary club, as you have heard in the performance of the representative of our club, has not come to a conclusion and we have been waiting for the explanation of Minister Blatný, we have been waiting for the particular reasons that are here to prolong the emergency situation. And there's one other thing that makes me think that I don't want to argue about days this time, and that's the grudge that governs how we're supposed to behave in this society. I was lucky enough to talk to some of my colleagues from Austria, Germany and Slovakia - I didn't speak to anybody from Poland, so I can't name it - but as far as these three states are concerned, so I see the measures that are being taken around us, and we are directly affected by this, we never had the worst situation in the South of Bohemia, even though we are not in the worst situation, the difficult conditions as they are there now, and yet we were hit by the Pendlers, and I pointed out here in the spring that this is one of the biggest problems of tracing, the transmission of the disease, because apart from the source and the transmission then there is the company that either accepts it or doesn't accept it. And so far, we're too sensitive a company to say that we're already at the top and that it's going to go down. I thank Minister Blatný for those words, but I am afraid that we should not satisfy ourselves with that sentence and not take another step that will be premature, and then we'll feel bad about it here. I must say that I am very critical of some of the measures, and finally my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček said the five most basic things that we want to explain, in part, Minister Blatný explained, I think, very logically. And I don't think we're supposed to spend our time discussing the extension or non-extension of the emergency situation, and maybe we should adopt the laws that we have here, and the time that we're spending on this point, not giving it a week or a fortnight again, even if there's a meeting going on, there's going to be a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from December 2nd, and we can pick this up at any time. On the other hand, I believe that we can use this time much more efficiently, for example, to adopt the laws that we need more for citizens of the Czech Republic. Therefore, I personally - and now this is not the position of the MP - will advocate that the time be either complete, 30 days or as little as possible, because I believe that rather than having this discussion, it is important to contribute to better explaining to all citizens of the Czech Republic together, why this is necessary, why it is not good to be on the top of those who are not in control of the pandemic, and that we would like to be again the best who have managed, as we have managed the first wave, and we have not succeeded in ending it. I am convinced that more trust between us, less attacking one another, less attacking those measures is possible solutions that people expect from us more than the words and the steps they are doing here, because it is no longer a matter of government, for how long it will prolong the emergency situation, it is a matter of all of us sitting here, it is a matter of the Chamber of Deputies. The government cannot do this without our consent, the extension, and we are all responsible. And believe me or not, I really don't want to be responsible for any premature life on account of or in connection with pandemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. There will be more performances with priority rights. Mr Dominik Feri, who acts with the opinion of the club, will be the first to speak, then the President, Jakub Michálek, will speak. That's two prior rights logged in so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u24	Mr Vice-President, there is always great joy when both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are present. It's great, thank you! Appreciate it. And I would like to respond at the outset to just one thing the Minister of Health mentioned. In his long and comprehensive speech, he mentioned something to which the government is unwilling to admit, namely that if in January it is necessary to switch to the regime of the fourth or fifth state according to the PES, we should be prepared for it. What does that mean? This means that PES is also expected in January, and this means that there will be an emergency in January. That's the government's plan. Let's get this straight. Let's not play games here. So I would expect this to be mentioned, that we want an emergency as a government, we are taking action before you, honourable Members, and we want an emergency until March, perhaps or May. Well, I'll allow myself to start here for that reason to underline what an emergency is. If the Prime Minister had come here with an amendment to the law of competence and said that he wanted the Ministry of Justice to set things right, I would have raised my hand and applauded him, because that is exactly what this government needs, because it focuses on responding to the crisis instead of focusing on explaining the measures and explaining what the emergency situation actually means. So an emergency is some sort of emergency state declared in a situation of some kind of natural disaster or some kind of industrial accident or other danger. But what the government forgets to mention and what creates such dangerous chaos in society is that the emergency situation is not equal to crisis measures, that is, it is not equal to whether there are closed shops, if there are closed restaurants, if there are closed service facilities, but that it is just a kind of playground or some kind of legal framework within which there is a play and under which emergency measures are taken. What the government doesn't say at all is that the emergency situation is not only being exhausted by crisis measures, but, for example, a specific thing and a very specific problem that will be a solution for the government, for example, is being imposed on students. That means what about the students who now, instead of preparing for their future careers, have that commitment in hospitals, how will this be dealt with? The fact that they haven't been to school in six months. Will they be forgiven? They won't forgive them? That's one thing. And a much more fundamental thing to which the government does not declare itself at all is a specific regime under the Public Procurement Act, where public contracts do not have to be awarded in procurement procedures during the emergency period. And it's not that I'm pointing at the government and saying, there's a problem here, some kind of smuck, but I'm just saying, it means emergency, it's not just the closed business, it's that it gives the government and that kind of competence on this section. And why am I talking about this in general, why am I explaining the basic thing that we've been meeting about for several times? It is from the very title that the fate of this table depends on the existence of an emergency. [[He's pointing.]] Nice! It would seem that we can be satisfied as opposed to calling for her, that we sent the tablet from Ireland to come with her at last, so that there was a plan for the government not to be dragged into events, but to predict where the next plague would be. But what did she come up with? She came up with something that if we don't approve of an emergency today, we can tear it up or throw it in the shredder. And when the Minister of Health here says that he feels no need for change, then I, for example, take the judicial decisions of the administrative courts, but also the Constitutional Court of the last six months, think the opposite. And that's where I want to go, a discussion about the law, because the emergency is the legal framework. And we can certainly talk about the content of the crisis measures individually and what the implications are, but the legal side of the matter is something that we should not forget and what I have to mention here as a member of the constitutionally-legal committee. I have a simple question for the Minister of Health. If you look at the chart, there's about 27... 25, I'm not quite sure - 25 circuits. And I'm wondering which of the measures within those circuits are feasible even outside the emergency situation. Because everything that's going on here, even if we're in stage one, in which I don't know when, in many months, in the spring, maybe, so even at that stage one, we're going to need an emergency. And unfortunately, it still didn't say explicitly, because for the government, a better salami method, just always come in and say, this is the last time. It's Christmas. We want to be safe. And then again. And then one more time, and then one more time, and then we'll be in March. And it's still gonna be an emergency with all the conventions I mentioned. Even at that level one, we need an emergency. And my question to the Minister of Health is, does the Ministry have a plan B? Does the Ministry have a plan B for a situation where in three or four hours the emergency won't extend even a day? What's he gonna do then? They're gonna declare the emergency again as government for 30 days, and this is how it's gonna go around? We're just gonna switch the Constitution? Or does he have an ace up his sleeve and say, which I would like, here the measure, here the measure, here the measure can be done by us on the basis of the authorisation under the Public Health Act by our extraordinary measure, which has the nature of a measure of a general nature, and is therefore given the review power of administrative courts? But I'm afraid that's not the case, and the Minister doesn't have that plan. The reason why we don't want the emergency to be prolonged longer than is absolutely necessary is because it's an emergency. The emergency situation isn't supposed to be the norm, and if the government thinks it's just normal and okay to hold an emergency until May, we don't think it's reasonable. This is not supposed to look like it, because the legal system provides opportunities for the Ministry of Health how to proceed, and has progressed for quite a long time. He's taking extraordinary precautions. She's quite wealthy, I'd say, already the caselaw, as I mentioned here. I know that in this very important decision also the Prague Municipal Court No. 14 A 41/2020 an appeal has been lodged. The Supreme Administrative Court is just about to decide on this matter, but the legal opinion presented by the 14th Senate of the Municipal Court is quite clear. If the situation is serious, crisis measures should be applied under crisis law. If the situation is less severe, then the Public Health Act should be applied and those measures should be taken in the general nature of the Ministry of Health. If the emergency situation is not, and as I said, we do not think it should take longer than it is necessary, and in 14 days the government should either come up with the fact that the situation is good and does not ask or come back again, but with a reasoned request, the Ministry of Health will not want to be forced to look if the emergency situation fails, and say what can be saved without emergency conditions and what cannot be saved without emergency conditions. That's my only request to the Ministry to make it clear to the Minister here, we have a plan B, we don't have a plan B. This is simple, because it is clear from the previous judgments that you cannot say by such measures, for example, which is in the first instance that catering establishments are closed between midnight and 6:00 a.m. I can't. If you do that, they'll sue the administrative courts immediately. I just can't. That means, Minister, please tell me if you have a plan B, and redo the chart to make it viable. There's no way there's an emergency at all levels. Then you didn't create anything that would be useful, but just a PR product to shut the opposition up. It's just not possible to work like this and that's how to treat it. [[11.20 hours]] I understand that it's probably hard for the D.O.D., that it's better than going to that pandemic with a cannon, and it's only loaded like this when there's an emergency. That it's gonna take a lot of work. That now the Ministry was thrown away by the extraordinary measure that involved wearing the drapes, which caused chaos, because the media shortcut was: the drapes are not to be worn. That the court decided that it would be canceled until some future date to allow the Ministry the room to fix it, that's another matter. Let us also bear in mind that the courts may not be so helpful in the future if they repeatedly come up with measures that are poorly justified. I understand that we all do politics here and that we have a political opinion. But look at the materials. Look what the government's giving us. Look how unjustified these requests are, the proposals. How unjustified these measures are. It's a pandemic, we have to solve it. It's as simple as that. But I can't, it's just not possible. And even from the arguments of the court, that is quite clear. When I read the decision here, it was recently cancelled: It does not mean, however, that, in a democratic legal state, it cannot mean that the opponents - that is, the Ministry of Health - could benefit from emergency measures within the meaning of the Public Health Act, which, in accordance with the above-mentioned undoubtedly, are also capable of interfering with the fundamental rights and freedoms of the addressees, entirely at their discretion, without giving at least a brief explanation of the reasons for their adoption and considerations, and having also reviewed those reasons on the basis of the relevant documents. - It means, "is a pandemic" isn't enough, we have to solve it. But there must be clear reasons for both emergency measures by the Ministry of Health, as well as crisis measures by the government, what, why and how. It's as simple as that, and even after half a year of pandemic, the ministry can't handle it. Ladies and gentlemen, our congressional club will support an extension of the emergency by just a few, to a maximum of two weeks. But we'd like to ask the government for a little bit of helpfulness in not going around the bush and saying, we want to work in an emergency until spring. We disagree, but it's definitely better than making fools of us and making fools of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. President Jakub Michálek will now appear, Mr Bojko will prepare. Please, you have the floor. I am sorry, there is a factual point, I have overlooked it, Mrs Kateřina Valachová has applied with a factual point. [[Voices from the diaper that are not factual remarks.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister, Ministers, I join the question that has been raised here, why the government is pushing people into supermarkets while small shops are closed. I am glad that the Minister of Health has acknowledged here that this is discrimination against Czech junk and that this is not the right way to go. Such measures should all be supported by data. And what we're talking about here is that clothes, shoes, or Christmas decorations can be purchased in supermarkets, while small shops specialized in these goods have to be closed because of government measures. It is in these small stores that it is easier to control the necessary sanitary measures than in large areas. But no one's dealing with it, and instead, small businessmen are being wiped out. When is the government gonna realize we can't let these people down because we're all gonna pay for it? The problem is that the measures, how they are prepared so that the small ones have closed, are not really supported by the data, because there will be concentration both from the point of view of the place, because those who want to buy will concentrate in those open stores and will not be in those closed stores at the same time. At the same time, there will be concentration in time. Because if we open the stores later, of course, those people who have scheduled purchases will be concentrated within a few weeks when they have to do the shopping. So that's why it seems illogical to me, because the basic substance of the fight against the pandemic is to avoid the concentration of people in one place. I'm glad there was a clear challenge not to do Christmas parties. But I think the government should give more details of her recommendations for Christmas. That's when people are supposed to do the shopping, how they're supposed to meet, how it's gonna be with the senior home visits, family meetings, etc. I think there should be a clear recommendation from the government here, and I think that the opposition, as well as everyone, or a large part of the people, will respect that, so that we avoid blowing this place up again. The question of justification. The government cannot justify new measures. I pointed that out already in April when I intervened with the government, but now because of the lack of justifications, two decisions of the government by the city court were abolished, and I am not surprised at all. It should be remembered that the situation we are in now arose because of government errors. This is the result of Prime Minister Babiš's hurricane event, which at the end of the holiday, abolished the drapes and softened the spread of the virus on social networks, even paid for advertising, and did not prepare our country for the second wave. Because of these mistakes, we got to best in covid in the number of deaths per million inhabitants. Unfortunately, the government hasn't learned from it. Smart measures could have been put in place a long time ago. Now the government has prepared a new version of a traffic light called PES, which finally binds measures to the level of risk. It was precisely the introduction of individual risk-based measures that was already contained in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies in June, June of this year. At the same time, we presented it earlier in May, but after six months, after we handed the proposal over to Minister Vojtěch, where we were inspired by New Zealand at the time, it was finally possible to follow up on these states. We also offer in this situation, which is very difficult for the Czech Republic and for a number of employees and businessmen, that we will help with the extension of the emergency situation, but we want us to really have a guarantee that this will lead to something. That is why we demand that the government ensure the end of discrimination against Czech traders against large multinational chains; it has set up retail outlets to comply with the same sanitary measures in order to avoid increasing the concentration of people in certain shops and the concentration of people in a few days before Christmas. Two. We demand that the government publish clear and predictable recommendations for people's behavior for Christmas, such as family meetings, visits to senior homes, purchases. Three. In order to process and submit a draft law in a legislative emergency that will allow epidemiological measures without the need to declare an emergency and central management of regional health stations. And four. Together with the measures announced, to publish proper justifications which will stand up in court and take into account the data and other documents on which the measures declared were based. If these conditions are met, we're ready to extend the delay. I think it is beneficial for you because you will receive support for your measures not only in the House, but also for the public's understanding of these measures. But it is difficult to sign under an extension of the emergency situation to which you have led our country by your inability to control the state at a time of crisis if these basic measures are not even met. So I call on you to treat the parties in the Chamber of Deputies who have the votes to extend the emergency situation so that we can agree across the clubs that this situation will actually be resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr Marian Bojko will now appear, Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I do not know who this government works for, but certainly not for the welfare of the citizens of the Czech Republic. You have succeeded in making senseless regulations, restrictions, orders, and bans to divide society, to pit families against each other, when in some families seniors refuse to visit out of fear, reject visiting their grandsons, children, for fear of being infected by chance. You've put young people, seniors, businessmen, employees against each other. That was the last time Gottwald succeeded in his reign of terror. Impossible to say goodbye to the dead with dignity. I really can't imagine if I were to be doing my father's funeral tonight, who was from ten siblings, and I couldn't invite all the grandchildren, it's horrible. Dress up your kids a beautiful wedding, impossible. To go to church together, impossible. In the spring it was practically impossible to celebrate the greatest Christian festival, the resurrection of Kristus. That was a huge blow for many believers. Is the same for us on another Christian festival, that is, at vánoce? You're not gonna let the families meet? Many families meet together just once a year at Christmas when they have children and grandchildren in the world for work. We had it exactly the same way. Our children worked in Ireland, England, Australia and came for Christmas, and that was the greatest wonderful experience for me when I could hug them again. You're not gonna let us do this? I don't know. Your incompetent orders and orders, closing restaurants, schools, sports grounds, hotels, pensions, hairdressers, pedicures, clothing stores, shoes, toy shops, bookstores, water parks, playrooms, playrooms, taxis are crashing, not to mention that some students had in driving schools just before the final exams, which they probably wouldn't do anymore. Plus, I've just heard that they're increasing by at least 2,000 driving schools. It's just a lot of small businessmen in particular don't really have cotton candy to survive this, and they end up at the Labor Office. That's the plan? I understood some orders in the spring. I was also worried because we only had one-sided information. But now I believe that this pandemic is an instrument of power to control citizens and destroy a middle class that will never recover. Shutting down schools was also a really genius move. Leave the children at home with whom he had to stay in the infirmary one of the parents, who, of course, is missing somewhere in the work process, especially in the health care, where part of the attending staff is either quarantined or in the infirmary. So why did you only open first, second grade primary school now? Why not all the schools? I have a grandson who's in ninth grade and can't go to school, a granddaughter in first grade. Someone's got kids in first grade, third grade, fourth grade. How does he handle it now? Does he have to take the other kid to school with the kid, then come home with him? It's just nonsense. No one has demonstrated any relevant data that covid mortality is somehow greater than the flu-related or other respiratory disease-related mortality. Each year, 110,000 people die on average in the Czech Republic. Did they stop dying? Are only people with covid dying? Have people with cancer, diabetes stopped dying after brain and vascular events? After the heart attacks? For post-op complications? I'm sure you don't. Covid just has huge media support and incredible marketing. Moreover, when I learned in the Questions of Václav Moravka that many, many times more are paid by health insurance companies for beds with a covid in the ICU than, for example, after heart surgery, it is clear to me now. Again, I have asked several times in this House why nothing serious about this deadly virus is happening in Belarus. If there were corpses lying on the streets, the democratic opposition we're feeding money from the State Department would definitely tell us. In Africa, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Indonesia, in billions of destinations, and in many other Muslim countries? Well, because there aren't billions for nonsense tests and vaccines. Who makes the most money on tests and vaccines? I'd really like to know, but I don't think we'll know. Mr. Prime Minister, don't be polite and tell me, who invents unique nonsense about the government, the last time with a 15-meter flat on a customer's market? That's incredibly stupid. They don't let you into the store without a wheelchair, even husbands have to have their own cart, the same mommies with a stroller, they have to carry a carriage with a baby and a cart, really cool. Not to mention the fact that there are other, smaller establishments and shops in supermarkets, such as bakery, candy shop, tobacco shops, hot counters, sausages, where you simply can't buy snacks for work or children at school because a cartless security guard doesn't let you in. Plus, most people out there are freezing in line. Brilliant idea. I'd really like to know whose smart head this came out of. Another stupidity is the abolition of Sunday sales, as this leads to a huge accumulation of customers on Saturday. Curfew after 9:00. I'm waiting for the crap to come next time. Citizens are banned from going out tonight, and hundreds of illegal migrants in trucks are driving our republic. There's practically a catch every day. The question is, how many will pass without us knowing. The government has created an atmosphere of fear among citizens. It is a clear intention, because in such an atmosphere the citizen is best managed. Former American President Franklin Delano Roosevelt once said: Fear is all we have to fear. After World War II, when the Nuremberg Tribunal asked Hermann Göring how they managed to manipulate smart educated people to perform such atrocities as they did, Göring replied: It works not only under fascist governments, but it works in democracy, in monarchy, in communism, under any government. The government's work is to create fear in people, and if you can keep them in fear, you can convince them to do whatever you want and become sheep. The day before yesterday, I heard the Prime Minister on the radio answering the question of what he brought in November 89, and he answered that we have freedom here. And I ask what freedom we have. There is no freedom of speech, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly. On social networks, all articles that deny pandemic predictions about covid are also expressed by Nobelův Prize winners for medicine, so they are lubricated or backed up. I had a few thousand on my Facebook, and if I put something in there today, if you don't click on it, it won't show up. It's called. I think I'm screwing with that freedom. [[screwing?]] The government actually wipes its ass with the Constitution. I was literally shocked when I saw the footage from Slovakia of November 17th, when the police shot the citizens with rubber bullets, where the chief of police showed: the shot, the shot, the shot. A lot of them were injured. Is that what we really wanted? Is that what we fought for in 1989? And the Minister of Defense of Slovakia will call the demonstration monkeys, fascists and mobsters, and I don't know everything. That's just outrageous. This is unbelievable! I told you, the comments against the covid are deleted. Governments that have introduced brutal restrictions against their own citizens, that's just wrong. Mainly owners and social network operators are incredibly rich in the current situation. I'd like to ask again where the virus came from. Why isn't anyone researching this? At the beginning of the alleged pandemic, we were convinced that he probably escaped from the laboratory in China. So is it artificially created? Nobody cares about that all of a sudden? Well, I do. Why are we spending billions on tests and vaccines, and nothing on drugs for this alleged disease? What's the point? Everything is directed only and only to compulsory optional vaccination, without which you will probably not be able to go anywhere. I believe that half of the frightened nation will stand on the vaccine front, just as they stood on the tests that they have proven, not 100 percent that you are positively unmarkable, we once called it health. The drapes we are forced to wear do not work against the transmission of the virus, and we force them to carry small children at the first stages. Is quarantine really effective? [[11.40 hours]] We've had a lot of pandemics in the past. In 1969, a Hong Kong flu pandemic erupted, killing 100,000 people in the US. That's about 200,000 today, and there's no lockdown. In 1976, a pig flu pandemic also broke out in the US, where one person - one - died. But 25 people died from complications after vaccination with a properly untested vaccine, many others have permanent consequences. The courts are still dealing with these damaged billion-dollar compensations. There was a huge media massage at the time to get people vaccinated, and 48 million people were vaccinated. Unfortunately for many with fatal consequences. A million 600,000 people die of tuberculosis each year in the world. And are we wearing drapes for that? No. But we have a well-tested vaccine that we almost eradicated in our country. But the vaccine we're about to receive is definitely not tested. Plus, I'm very careful when Bill Gates is behind her. This isn't about breaking up the company, keeping it in complete fear, and you can do whatever you want without anyone looking at you. After your reign of terror, there will be no middle class, only extremely poor and extremely rich. A very steep trend has an increase in the number of suicides, murders, and violence in families. People do it out of desperation, without work, without money, without a future. And here we didn't get any answers on when those emergency states were gonna end up here, restrictions. It's just going to be the third wave, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth? Forever? Nobody knows what's gonna happen next. When do we get to level zero? Probably never. And we will forever be bound by some limitations and orders. It may miraculously cease when you force us all to inoculate, but I fundamentally refuse. I don't see any reason to prolong the emergency. And we non-inclusion of members of the movement We will vote united against an extension, even by a single day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič will now appear, after which Minister of Health Jan Blatný will give priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, dear colleagues, I will certainly not be as long as my previous speakers, although, of course, this raises a number of questions, the subject we are discussing today. And I don't want to question the questions that are falling here at all, even the reasons, because I think that each of them has their ratio and we would like to know the answer to them, and that answer will be given to us and can only be given by renowned experts who, from my point of view, are seriously engaged in research into epidemiological diseases, and regardless of whether the origin is animal or artificially created, or has been introduced here and for what purpose or why they are buying some medical devices that are involved in the production of vaccines, various sera and medicines, foreign companies, including Bill Gates companies. These are simply questions that can, of course, cause concern and tension in society. And I cannot resist the impression that the public media also contribute a great deal to this. Because, I have been talking about, I think, the last time, I just need to turn on the broadcast of the Czech Television news and the views of renowned experts, the assessment of the statistical curve that changes from hour to hour, just the different opinions are being expressed, leaving a large part of the citizens in legitimate uncertainty about what is actually going on and if the measures are effective. In my own way, I think that the government should file accounts for the Chamber of Deputies and should not receive any blank cheque, which means we will extend it for a while. I hope, through Mr President, that I will not in any way touch my fellow Member, Mr Feri, until some March, May, until some indefinite time, that is certainly not, and that is not even possible under the laws in force. I'm more worried about something else in this context. Or it frightens - it leads to the thought that we are actually moving away from power here, which should be the division of legislative, executive and judicial power, to slowly determine the policies and actions of the courts by their decisions, even though I admit that now the government is sometimes recording a little bit of this by its unqualified justification for its decisions, by insufficient justification. And then one person who just defies, sues this decision, simply "I don't want to wear drapes, I don't want this measure" and the court decides, and decides purely from a formal point of view. When you study the judicature, it doesn't go to the substance of the thing, it goes to the formal criterion, and on the basis of the formal criteria, those decisions are being dropped. And that is to think about how the government is actually dealing with the justification for these measures that it is asking of us and their announcements. We, as a KSČM club, will be discussing the length if we support the emergency situation for the full time that the government is talking about. It is no secret that a large part of us would like to support and come to the government for one simple reason, because if we want to maintain the stability of the curve and have some prediction that after a week it will fall and it will last another week and another week, then the four-week period is somehow minimal to make sure that before the holidays we can say yes, this is what it looks like, this is the development in the Czech Republic. But what we will not influence, and this is already the role of the European Union, what development and measures are being taken in those neighbouring countries, in the countries of the European Union, where measures are taking much harder, much more restrictive measures, and not so much bailed out by small businesses or taken into account by exposed employers in health care, education and employees at all. And here I bow deeply in front of the medical and medical staff and those who help in the elderly's homes, whether they are soldiers, police officers, volunteer workers, firefighters, be they teachers, because they all come in first and foremost in contact with people at risk of this disease, and also among the medical staff there are a few people who are fighting this disease because they are positive and because they just have this disease erupted and have to somehow heal from it, seduce their struggle with it. And seduce him as soon as possible to help people again. And he certainly deserves deep respect and thanks. I do not think, unlike my previous speakers, that it would be cunning that everything can only be dealt with on the basis of Act No. 58/2000 Coll. in the later version, on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws. [[258?]] Yes, many things could be dealt with on the basis of this law, but then we should not have what I was talking about here, about the judicial autocracy that everyone who does not like it will give their submissions to the courts, they will lead their personal fight with the courts, and those measures will not apply across the board, they will pay the county from the county, and we will constantly struggle with different outbreaks, with their spillover, and it will be as it was for example in Austria for one time, where the different federal states of Austria, even individual districts had their specific measures. And they weren't at all able to handle this plague, and now it's coming back to them like a boomerang. And here it was also expressed by the Minister's words, what is the result of the route and what is the result in our country. So at this moment I would appeal a little to the cold sense, because a number of those measures that were so suddenly loosened up in the spring, so they were, honored colleagues from the true spectrum of this House, especially under your pressure, because you said: you paint the devil on the wall, release those measures, release them quickly, spring is nearing the beginning of summer, holiday is coming, you need to restart the economy, you need to relax and give people the opportunity to travel. And it turns out it wasn't quite the right solution. And now I guess I'm gonna go the same way, repeating the same mistakes wouldn't be happy, even though I understand the Christmas time is coming. She the measures are, are outlined, are described in the so-called not Semaforu, but PESU. [[11.50 hours]] She the measures are, they're outlined, they're described in the so-called "not the traffic light," but the PES. They're prescribed on the table. I would also like to be able to sell to small businessmen, Czech tradesmen and Czech craftsmen, so that they do not feel (?) transnational chains and from abroad, that is, the wholesales that most now draw goods that come from abroad, and not from Czech producers, that is, I think, a big and fatal problem to which the government should answer and address urgently. [[unintelligible]] And the government should also deal with the support of even large economic units, to which a number of small businessmen and small businesses are linked up to 50 employees, because they form components and supplies and supply them with parts for their production, and who, for example, in terms of the number of their employees and who are in some way positively identified and evaluated and are sent to quarantine, have a big problem fulfilling these deliveries to large companies and employers, and they are continuous vessels. So if we want to keep production in a large enterprise, we need to be aware that we also have to keep production and employment in those small firms, in those tradesmen, in those small and medium-sized employers, and also provide adequate support for them. From this point of view, I think that the House can, with a calm heart, satisfy the government in an extension of the emergency situation, but it can make a condition that it wants to have a regular point of information at its proper meeting in a week, rethink this decision and say - so, there are reasons, numbers are falling and the emergency situation will simply end. That is the jurisdiction of this House. I request information. And it happened more than once. So why not go down this path and therefore choose extensive rhetorical exercises that will not help the government, whatever it is, or the citizens in orientation, what this House and the political parties represented in it are. I can say for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia that we only wish - that those who are fighting this insidious disease, first of all health professionals, teachers, firefighters, policemen, health professionals, but also to protect people, citizens, risk groups, whether seniors or young families, all citizens, from this disease. And that there's no point in making rash decisions. We're just going to push it a week, ten days, twenty days, and then it's going to come back to us, and we're going to figure it out, and then it's going to really come down to the black script that my previous speaker outlined here that we're going to be dealing with the whole course of next year. And I'm sure none of us, not even myself, wants that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Minister Blatný will now speak with priority rights. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond, and therefore, I only use my right to react so that I can respond to what is being discussed here, because I consider it my duty and necessary. I would like to emphasise one crucial thing that several of you have mentioned here. Coronavirus divides us. It divides society into two parts, which seem almost irreconcilable, and to reconcile the views of these two groups and to reconcile the requirements that are quite rightly due to these two completely different views, it is extremely difficult and this debate is also a reflection. I totally get it, I totally accept it, but we have to sort this out somehow. From a medical point of view, we can treat coronavirus, but we can't yet treat our society, which, in my opinion, has damaged far more than the bodies of individuals. Enough philosophy and back to specific things. Question for duty. The work obligation is allowed in an emergency condition, not ordered. This means whether someone uses or does not make use of the student's work obligation is due to the need, so even if there is an emergency, but they are stabilized hospitals, for example, there is no need to use this option. As far as student regime is concerned, it is one of the things that is discussed on health committees and will also be discussed with deans of medical faculties. On a question - completely legitimate and completely logical - of Mr Feri, when an emergency is absolutely necessary and when it is not necessary, I will try to answer this question. Emergency status is essential to level 3 and suitable and necessary for other levels. For Levels 1 and 2, some regulations may be enforced to a limited extent without emergency conditions, but this will not be possible to do across the board. In other words, we will have to proceed individually within what allows us, for example, the powers of sanitation stations and others, and we will probably risk different situations in different parts of the country and people react to it so that sooner or later the risk will reunite, unfortunately, at the higher category. However, I do not mean that this is not possible. Of course, we know exactly which of these measures we can and cannot enforce with or without an emergency. This information can certainly be provided. She's finally readable from the table itself. I draw attention to the fact that the plan - and we have said this from the outset - is that the table at its current stage is, if possible, unchanged or at least amended by the end of the year. In the meantime, we'll get a lot more data that will allow us to keep making decisions. If I had a crystal ball and knew what would happen in four weeks, I'd be the first one to tell you. I don't know now. And just like we didn't know what's going to happen now a month ago, I can't promise you, and it would be irresponsible to tell you what's going to happen next month. I've already made a statement about small business. I'm not gonna say that again. We will try to answer our joint press conference with Minister Plaga on the question of when the children of the ninth grade will return to the schools. It'll be soon. The price for a patient's bed treated for the diagnosis of coronavirus has been mentioned here. Yes, it's essential information. Please be aware that when this measure was being prepared, tens of patients were in our hospitals in the spring of this year, not hundreds or thousands. At a time when this measure would not have been set up while the other hospital capacity was significantly reduced, hospitals would normally have defaulted financially. The situation is different now. Yes, you are right that these are extreme funds that flow in this way to hospitals and that is why it was designed in cooperation with health insurance companies to re-evaluate this system as soon as possible. I deliberately say in the shortest possible time, because these regulations cannot be made from day to day, however we might wish it, but everything must take its form. You as Members know best. Let us not succumb to the illusion that something, though in good faith, will make one day a day. When we make these decisions, we must do it properly and irreconcilably. After all, it's your daily bread. I will propose, and on this we have also provisionally agreed with representatives of health insurance companies to change the payments for this disease in the sense that corresponds to the prepared new decree DRG-CZ, and to make it a payment for the case. In other words, the hospital will receive a certain amount of money for this case, no matter how long a person with this disease stays in it. Also here will be divided payment for intensive care and standard care. I suppose this could happen at the beginning of next year. I think that this will be a change that is acceptable to all and eliminates various possible conjecture about how the current regulation is applied. And once again, as the previous ministers had been set up before, it was set right because we were in a different situation. [[12.00 hours]] Belarus, Africa and other countries were quoted here. I don't know which one of you has been in these countries for a while. I had the opportunity to teach in poor African countries, I had the opportunity to participate in several educational events, which included persons from some countries of the former Soviet Union. And even smiley it seems that in one of these countries, the problem of disease was solved by saying it wasn't. You don't have a disease, you don't have to heal. But I'm sure we don't want this with us. As far as Africa and other poor countries are concerned, I remember seeing as many small children with a degree of four, which is the most advanced cancer with metastatic distributions, as I have never seen in my life. So, of course, these countries have completely different statistics and some coronavirus won't change them. There people die in thousands and hundreds of thousands for what our people don't die for. We can't compare ourselves to these countries, thank God we don't even have to compare ourselves to them. I am extremely sorry and I ask God to improve the situation in these countries, but let us not compare ourselves with them. We're somewhere else, and please be grateful. Then a question was asked - 15 square meters, who invented it. I'm proud to claim it. We invented it at the Ministry of Health after consulting experts, epidemiologists and others. And I think I've already explained and justified it in some way. It has been said that we are all afraid. Yes, I agree. We're scared, and that fear separates us. Why, therefore, do we fear each other often with false information? And freedom has also been mentioned here, or it has been mentioned here that we do not have freedom. I remember a quote I liked. It was when I paraphrase him, a quote that said that when we walked on the Karlův Bridge and were able to curse the government, we had freedom. This quote was attributed to Jan Masaryk, who told me. I've never been able to trace it, so I don't know if Jan Masaryk said it, but even if no one said it, the quote is true. We have freedom. This House of Deputies is proof of this. We can all express our opinion here, we can express it to the media, so please we have freedom. Vaccine. The vaccine is not and will not be required and neither is the vaccination passport and will not be required. It is just the way in which the European Union, where we belong and want to belong, is trying to help those who will travel. And I'm sure it's easier to go out with a card in your pocket than to get an exam done before each border crossing. Like many of you, I remember the time that was waiting at the border, with barbed wire back then, and crossing the border was something that many of us couldn't even realize and imagine. It is all different now, and this thing should also simplify travelers in the present difficult epidemic situation. He doesn't know anything, nothing less. And then the last question about drapes being nonsense. They're not. And even on the Czech data from the first half of this year, from the so-called first wave, it is evident that it is drapes and spacing, in English the so-called solution distance, which is one of the most effective measures. That is why they are introduced, which is why they are included in all levels of risk scores, and therefore, however extremely unpleasant it is, and I completely agree with it, they are in some form now and in schools. I think there's a lot of ways to make things easier for kids, a lot of them love comic book heroes, so they don't have to wear a hospital drape on their noses, they can wear something that resembles Spider-Man Man, Superman or anything else. So that's why drapes have meaning, and that's why we're defending them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jiří Mihola, who represents the President of the KDU-ČSL, will now speak with priority, and then will speak with priority, Mr. Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Prime Minister and members of the government, I will try to be brief, but I would nevertheless like to respond to this very important debate. As regards the extension of the emergency situation, we made it clear as an MP yesterday, of course. We listen to arguments, justifications, that's what we wanted. And I'm glad the explanation is getting a lot here, but I'd still like to emphasise the aspect that extraordinary things are supposed to be of an extraordinary nature. And I know that emergency measures are needed, but it's not here from any side, it wasn't, and it's not, it's a problem in two weeks, when it's necessary, to reunite and extend the emergency situation again. We must realise that we are really in such a bubble, no wonder, because the situation is happening repeatedly, but also citizens perceive that it is a restriction. It's just a restriction, it affects the whole society, every citizen, its freedoms and rights. And even if everyone understands that, they should be very careful with that. So I'm going to follow up on what my colleague Rakušan and others, for example, have said a little bit on the other side. And I certainly say this with great respect to the Minister of Health, and I appreciate his patient explanation. I'm glad somebody might pick up their eyebrows, even for talking about cloaks. It's obvious. Well, it's not clear at all. Look at the social networks, how people discuss clothing, how conflicting opinions are, how we all or most want to open schools, but then again many point out how crazy it is with masks. So it is of the utmost importance that anyone other than the Minister of Health has made a clear argument here, and clearly, here a hundred or a thousand times known, relighted the matter and underlined its importance to all of us. I'm glad that some things here have been explained that I have a slightly different view of them, such as the business issue. He's really very debatable. What's better if it's the distraction of citizens, or then it's the more mobility that can then mix with the epidemic again? That's probably a very debatable matter, and I'm glad the Minister is backing up all the data. Finally, we are looking forward to simply dealing with an epidemic with data support, as well as comparison with foreign countries. I think the lesson can always be very good, but please, in addition to the data, the data is great, it is definitely necessary, also flexibility and perspective. As an example, I'll take the churches that were also heard here. I don't know if it's entirely useful to count square meters there, somewhere it's a very Baroque church, oval floor plan, or some other, and it's difficult to count, somewhere they might know it exactly from some underlying material, but I'd rather say let's see how they have it in Bavaria, they'll clearly point out when they know they have to be separated, whether they're over two people or over one. These are very simple trivial measures, they can organize all the communities themselves, it's functional. [[12.10 hours]] I don't know that anyone hasn't followed it, violated it, or respected it. So this can work very well and practically right away, so that we don't figure things out over the sun again, that we can't compare a small chapel or a small church and a cathedral with the number of people. Sometimes the data breaks down on that, or the dry regulations that I understand can't be alienated into, like, individual matters. But that's the kind of thing that can be solved. Or if we know how to vent, how better it is to be in the fresh air than in the inside and so on, I don't understand exactly how the Deputy Ministry of Health, according to my information, has shut down forest clubs as part of general associations or restrictions on federal activity. And now parents write and are confused that forest kindergartens work, which is positive that there are still children in the air and, on the contrary, they may last more than children in stone schools. And forest clubs work similarly, except they're outside the competence of the Ministry of Education because they're not in the school register. But they work alike. So that we don't miss such completely unnecessary things otherwise functional. There was talk of funerals here, too. In this context, I'm sorry that there are no other ministers here, because it would look different when we're talking about such serious things, so that even the Minister of Resort, in cooperation with the Minister of Health, would be here to communicate and then communicate. [[Only the Prime Minister and Minister of Health are present in the hall]] Those people are waiting for it. Those things aren't as clear as you think. And finally, we don't always get that information firsthand. Now I am, and I am really addressing the Minister of Health again - it is nice that he is planning a press conference with the Minister of Education. When I hear about it, I listen carefully to the conferences, write down and then pass on the information on social media. But we should be the first to have that information when we're dealing with this serious point. And, in fact, even for the Minister or for the Ministers, feedback is important, or any opinion, or even dissent and argument against him, than if it's all over again with a delay, that after this point, there will be a press conference, we will now respond to it, then someone will want another extraordinary meeting and so again and again. So some things would really need to be more straightforward. And it's a shame, I believe it's more of an accident than the Minister wouldn't want to tell us or keep it from us. Plus, sometimes there are different opinions among those ministers, I can see that. That would make it all the more important for them to clear up here, if the views are not the same, and the Members could enter into this discussion. Because otherwise, the discussion is then and the misunderstanding is endless. Thank you again especially for the explanations. I believe that even the things raised here, that the Minister will still speak to them. And I wish all of us luck to cope with the epidemic. Healthy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. We continue with priority rights - Mr Leo Luzar, then Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak with priority rights for the CSSD club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Minister, I will try to be factual and not go into philosophical reasoning. The minister at the beginning of his interview, which I wanted to respond to, talks about the division of society. Yes, the company is very heavily divided. Paradoxically, as politicians, we should perceive that it is not divided into right, left, center, but divided into anticovid and procoid. And it affects all political parties. And I'm sure you'll give me, colleagues, for the truth that you'll find both supporters and camps in each side. And the arguments they make, either one or the other, are relevant arguments. We have to deal with them and we need to be able to explain as politicians. Because who are these people looking to? To us! They read different outputs in the media. They're watching press conferences, and then they ask me, and explain it to us. And it's just very hard to explain without the data we keep asking for. The second thing that remains in the Ministry of Health as a big debt, not to the Minister, is to fight disinformation. That's the thing the previous ministers promised. And it doesn't work. There's really no way to fight misinformation. Yes, the Ministry significantly improved its media output in the context of data promotion. Aggregated data are there, individual outputs change every day. Thank you very much for that. But, unfortunately, there is no struggle with misinformation. But I'm going to stop at one thing, and that's so much of a PES table. A work that we all probably appreciate. But I ask, Minister, because the magic of mathematics is when the tablet was created. This is where the company was shut down. It was in some... [[The speaker is silent. The Prime Minister is currently debating with the Minister of Health in the government bench. After he's finished talking, the Prime Minister is leaving the O.R.]] I'll wait. I speak to the Minister, so he will listen to me. It was at some point that the companies were shut down, when they were clearly set by the government parameters that talked about how limited the company was. You took the table, the parameters, and you set it as a certain level, because it's already been approved and decided, and where all the restrictions were written. Now you've had two choices. Either say there's still a chance to toughen up, or it's the maximum possible thing we're willing to admit as a government. You said, this is the maximum we are able to accept as a government. Then it's okay, it's announced. And now you have to modify the data. In other words, you took the current situation of the data, and you modified it mathematically so that it would come out of the exact numbers of percentages to get in the table on the worst option you were willing to accept. Here I think you've made a big mistake, because the data that was in this company and from which you came out didn't match the chart anymore. And today, we're trapped in that loosening up that should match the data that's going down quite significantly, it's no longer consistent with the table. That's why I'm asking you, as a minister, if you're able to say from that table, maybe we're going to skip some level, maybe from level four or level five, which we're in today, we're going to jump to level three right now, or from level four to number two. Because then that would correspond to the alignment of the mathematical model, the percentages that you set from a certain starting point and adjusted those numbers to match that. Because it would be hard to justify when the government announces shutting down the company, but the data that should objectify it no longer correspond to the shut down of the company. And it would be a problem to relax right away. I'm sensing you've got a little bit of a math trap here. Perhaps it also has something to do with the fact that the expert group you refer to and work with, in my opinion, lacks skeptics. As I looked at its composition and looked at where these people came from and what their expertise was based on, I think you lack people in that group who would oppose the views of the majority that the group is promoting. I consider this to be a certain minus, handicap. In any scientific work, if you're working with a group of people and they're all coming at you, the output isn't going to be good, because you need opponents to precise the exit view. My colleagues have already talked about everything else, and I won't delay it. But I wanted to point out that with the call, all of us, calling for a clear table in quotation marks, a clear position, we got into the trap of time and mathematical. And once again, the most important thing for me is to regain the trust of citizens. And if that trust doesn't come through, we'll all be there. And we'll all be guilty of it. Not just the government, but all of us who have anything to say about society. That is why I would perhaps also appeal, and I have already repeated it during the spring wave, if the crisis crew works, if crisis management works, it should be a part of it, an integral part, being directors of public media, that is, Czech Radio, Czech Television and Czech Press Offices, so that it is those who guarantee the transmission of messages as they have been said, without distortion, without any other add-ons, so that the media that people rely on most, because they are public, so that they give the information really seriously and do not compare it to all the other media, I don't want to blame them, who chases behind the tabloids, chases behind the sensation, and, of course, even the material arguments they make to their readers, audiences, according to their composition, and not according to the facts. That's my request to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now speak with priority, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u38	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, dear government, Minister of Health, I would like to present the opinion of the Social Democratic Club. We appreciate the new risk assessment of the spread of COVID-19 and its retreat, called. Dog. Mr. Health Minister, thank you for this. We appreciate the principle of more careful easing and the principle of faster tightening if COVID-19 gets stronger. This principle, which takes into account the new PES evaluation system, is very beneficial and we also consider it effective in the future from the point of view of the measures that we will have to take in the event of an emergency situation. It is COVID-19, which limited us in our natural human contacts, in family and work life, in the most sensitive moments of life, such as man's departure, weddings, funerals, prayers. COVID-19, which crippled Europe and the whole world, a virus that was neither the first nor the last. I would like to remind you, in particular, because I do not really think that anyone in the Chamber of Deputies is serious about the fact that COVID-19 may have caused the government or that we are enjoying this virus. Historically, I will mention the Spanish flu, not to be afraid, but to be absolutely sure that just like our predecessors, we can relive our normal lives and, thanks to science and medicine, find our way out of the epidemic. It's gonna happen. It wasn't and it's not gonna be easy, it's not gonna be easy, it's gonna be fast, but it's gonna happen. The epidemic will end the way epidemics ended before COVID-19. Emergency status means that, for the time necessary, the government can limit the gathering of people, it can deploy fire brigade, police, army to assist in health or social care. If absolutely necessary, there is also the possibility of using citizens' labour obligations for the necessary time. This is particularly the case when it comes to providing health care in health care facilities or social services facilities, homes for seniors. It does so in need and need in the face of COVID-19, which threatens the safety and health of people. It does not do so with joy, it is not a goal, but a means to have our country again, our lives without need, unlimited and full. How to keep the country and the citizens safe. It's a temporary state that will pass. Social democracy is doing everything in its power to make it as soon as possible to have a country and the lives of all of us without an emergency. We thank all people for their incredible efforts to cope with this unprecedented situation, not only the people on the front line in the fight against COVID-19, health professionals, doctors, social workers, not just teachers and teachers, but all of them. Because everyone's life has turned into a job, a family, a business, you could say that everyone's lost something or something. Unfortunately, even the number of families who lost the most expensive, loved ones, despite the incredible efforts of doctors and sisters to prevent it, is also increasing. You're telling us that you no longer have the strength to endure this condition. You write that only a part of your children can normally learn in school, and yet all day long in a mask, although they are young children. You write about restrictions on trades, concerns about housing loss, economic situation, about the fact that you could not say goodbye to your loved ones in the hospital, because their leaving and COVID-19 surprised the attending doctor as well. Yes, that's COVID-19. Yes, that's why we're in need. We live all these situations with you. COVID-19 and the emergency situation concerns all of us, the whole country. Therefore, the Social Democratic Club has this attitude and will promote the following actions in its next steps: firstly. We want a safe, smart and gradual return of children to schools. We want free voluntary and systematic testing of adult pedagogical and non-teaching staff in schools. In particular, we want to provide protective equipment for open nursery schools and special schools. We want no child to be forgotten in its educational journey, so that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports prepares the entrance exams, final exams and graduation exams for 2021. We want a system of balancing the inequalities that naturally arise, not some ad hoc case, which will be used to train the child, but a system that will raise the Republic and the nation in the next year to ensure that we use the maximum school associations, tutors, tutors, youth organisations, homes of children and youth, sports clubs, tourist clubs, in short, all of these organisations to support the balance of differences within informal pedagogy, to catch up on what has not been done, simply so that we can all help teachers and teachers and parents manage the situation, correct and straighten the situation, and that everyone can be sure that this is a certainty and that this will work. We want gradual withdrawal of students from their work duties in medical institutions. Doctors and sisters, thank God, are coming back from quarantine, gradually restoring, if you can say so with COVID-19, the normal operation of medical facilities. For your information, we are the only country in Europe that has made use of students in terms of duty. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank our students and students that, in the case of both college students and high school students, they are courageously aware of the profession they are studying, the profession they are preparing for, and, in accordance with it, they have helped us all in finding and ensuring adequate health care. I really appreciate it. Despite all this, I believe that the situation is already approaching when it is the duty of students and students to reduce and return them where they belong, that is, to schools and to education. Another thing we want, of course, is to ensure, given that the emergency situation has taken a very long time for our seniors and seniors in social facilities to have the opportunity, of course, to have social contact with their families, in compliance with certain epidemiological measures, such as those in Germany. The Minister of Health will certainly confirm that this is possible, such approaches exist. We will endeavour to ensure this as quickly as possible. We also want to ensure the safety of employees in continuous operations, shifts, safety of work, protective equipment, trips to and from employment. This is everyday reality of every employee, every employee, we want this to work. We thank those employers who are already helping in this right now. And those who may not be helping yet, we ask that we do this together. We want to re-establish trades and small businesses under accessible ongoing epidemiological measures. We believe this is possible. Finally, we are working on a solution, and it has been discussed here, and we will support it to achieve the approval of constitutional changes that will enable us to cope with an epidemic without declaring an emergency, that is, to achieve certain constitutional anti-epidemiological measures, such as in Germany, to find a consensus on this. Please note that this will be on both chambers of Parliament, it will not be easy work. And it is a work primarily for us, for the legislator, to be able to agree on this. [[12.30 hours]] Of course, we want to support municipalities and regions, because the long-term emergency situation and the fight against COVID-19 are of course exhausting their personnel and material resources, and it is quite clear, and this is our position, social democracy, that the state and government without the assistance of the regions and municipalities are unable to face effectively COVID-19. That is why, of course, we also listen to our representatives in municipalities and regions, and on the contrary, I think that Slovak experience shows that if the government joins with municipalities and regions, there is basically nothing that cannot be mastered. In order to implement this plan, we need now for the necessary time of emergency. That is why Members of Social Democracy will support the emergency situation under these conditions, which I have described, because unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, Dear Government, Madam President, it is quite clear, and we do not need to like it that the path to the normal state and the state of joy in our country, which we all wish, leads through an emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u39	Have a good afternoon. So we'll continue the debate. Next, Mr Petr Bendl will appear and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry the Minister of Health isn't here on such a serious matter, perhaps he has something more important. At least the Minister of Education is here somewhere. We are in a situation where, for the third time in a short time, we decide whether to give the government a blank check to have a free hand with the individual measures that are gradually coming to us from the media, and we do not have the opportunity as Members to be confronted with the individual measures that the government proposes or enforces and approves. That's something that bothers me in an extreme way. It bothers me that we are learning from the media what measures are going to come, and the Minister mentioned here a moment ago that he will soon have an important press conference with the Minister of Education, where the public will be informed. Well, this is where you should first inform the Members of Parliament about what you want. For what reasons and with what background. I think it would be fair now, we've called for it several times to come up with a clear plan and measures that can be publicly defended. I asked the Minister of Health about the interpellations if he would tell me at least one valid reason why the government is doing its utmost to concentrate people in one place in individual measures. Because narrowing down office hours leads to nothing but more people meeting in front of city halls and individual authorities waiting for their legal obligations to be met. Likewise, Sunday's ban on sales means a greater concentration of people in a different situation on Friday afternoon. The fact that there weren't exactly super-large fronts yesterday, I reckon people got ready the day before. And on the other hand, the biggest rushes are coming on Friday and Saturday. On the contrary, I see no reason to look for measures that do not lead to people's concentration, but lead to people meeting as little as possible and having a chance of their affairs, both shopping and possibly official things, having a chance to deal with them as comfortably as possible, as little time as possible in the queues, because of course there is a risk of contagion. [[Not looking?]] Thank you for listening to me. [[The Minister is taken into the conversation.]] I'm dead serious because we're talking about serious things. Please, if you have anything, call a break, and we can continue this another time. The government wants a blank check from us. I'm convinced, and we've given it to you several times, but you come up with some measures that can't be publicly defended. I can't explain to people why a dog-cut salon can be opened, and we can't go to a hairdresser where we can order properly. I can't explain that. Just like the measures you've recently changed, when "normal", forgive me for the expression, weddings may take place, but not registered partnerships. I don't understand what that means in the direction of epidemic measures. Those 15 square meters, I'm glad I finally know who invented it, because it's incredible! In practice, almost unrealizable, uncontrollable. I think it's something that's already crossed the line. That we are stepping up in a situation where the epidemic has the character of shrinking and that there are still some significant indications that the situation is improving. The Minister of Health here says that we are free and we do not restrict any freedoms. We have a curfew, Minister! We're not allowed to sing! I guess we all feel that restriction of freedom somewhere else. Even you as a citizen can't go to Karl's bridge after 9:00, sing, not at all. So I think we all really see that freedom somewhere else. You in captivity to your measures, which I don't think can be defended and can't be explained. I think you should take these measures - and we don't have to vote on being an emergency, we all understand that to a certain extent. But what's the emergency supposed to look like? I just don't want to live to see you ministers take messages every day through the media about what to promote. You, of course, turn to the media because it's very interesting when Minister Havlíček says one day that something that has been announced a day or two before will change. I can totally imagine the reaction of you back there in the government that you're looking at, you're thinking, oh, my God, what's going on back there? I mean, we met two or three days ago, and we agreed on a solution. Well, we're in a similar situation with the prisoners when you want us to agree to an emergency situation, and you don't want to tell us what the emergency situation should look like or what measures you're going to surprise us with in the future. I find this unfortunate, because we, as opposition, really wanted to be part of these discussions, we take the situation seriously, but we do not want and cannot defend measures that are absolutely inexplicable. And when I mentioned the Sunday business, I don't understand why small businesses can't be opened. Why do you drive people to big malls and you don't want - for the same, I note - under the same regime measures to allow small shops to be opened? I mean, what's stopping it? Why one -- although maybe this government has some experience in this, that the big ones are something special to you, and you always need to circle the little ones in some way. But it doesn't make sense! You can just open it and you can run it from tomorrow. And if you come here with such a measure, we, as civil democrats, will certainly raise our hand for it, because that is creating even unequal conditions. Everyone's got a complicated situation, but I can't explain to these people why they can go to the mall for electronics and not to the small store! And then you make up the 15 square meters, that's a total nonsense. [[12.40 hours]] I was talking about curfew, that's just... How many of these people are scared today, because of course, the vast majority of older people aren't going anywhere. They don't even have a place to go. So we really have to call these people after twenty-first hour, you can't go out and infect someone - when there's nobody there anyway, and there's nowhere to go? Do we have to hold these symbols? Wouldn't it be better just to talk really about the practical things here in the House, to split it up when you come up with the draft measures, we're definitely ready to sit here on Saturdays, Sundays as needed, but we're not willing to talk about the individual measures, but aren't we willing to give you a 30-day bianca check to then be surprised and confronted with what you guys invent from day to day and change every other day? I don't think that's the time anymore. The situation is improving, and if there's any room to do it, and we're willing to work in this spirit, let's talk about how we've been here since we were eight today, so we can be here Saturday, Sunday. I don't mind at all. But I'm sure I don't agree with you getting a blank check for 30 days. Come again really - because I say for myself that I just don't want to raise my hand anymore, although I know that an emergency situation is needed and that you need it, and that's why we raised our hands to give you a chance to react quickly so that you don't have to go to the House, but there's already a lot of time, we already have a lot of information, so we could start talking operationally here and here at the House level about individual measures instead of going to press conferences so the media can have it before we have to decide. Government MPs may be so massaged that they agree to everything, but I am terribly sorry because I cannot imagine that when they walk down the street and ask them specifically about some specific measures, I am convinced that they are unable to explain it. And the concentration of those people, the program concentration of those people you're promoting with these measures, I think is wrong towards the medical assessment of the matter. I'm sorry I may have been too long, but I'm really worried about the situation. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u41	Now Minister Plaga will respond to you with priority right and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda is still ready. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In response to the honourable Member. I listened to you very carefully. As for the reservation to the press conference and the fact that the House of Deputies is actually at random and everyone can learn what is going to happen, a substantive reminder. The model, or antiepidemic system PES, was introduced last week. For the field of education on Monday I presented a clear matrix which elaborates individual measures into maximum detail, with those grades five, four, three, two and one being described in detail. That means, the rhetoric that no one really knows, and the Chamber of Deputies doesn't know what's going to happen is odd at the moment. I'd understand if it was totally random, but it's not. This means, you know according to it and you have the same information at this time - and it is great - as any citizen of the Czech Republic, it is the benefit of the system that he can see what value is today, what value was yesterday, and he can calculate it if he wants to check it out. So to argue that we have a system that works and is transparent to every citizen is, in my opinion, strange. And the fact that this final decision about when the stage or which of these measures will take place, I'm telling you that Minister Blatný said that one thing is a vending machine, and the other thing is the timing of the measures so that it works in the real world. So I understand the reservation, but I don't think it's 100% as valid as you said it would be. But probably, the way I'm looking at you right now, we'll be different in that opinion. But that's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u43	Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will now appear and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Let me first respond to the fact that there has been a mutual discussion, which is untypical, because the way the debate is different here. What Minister Plaga said is in direct conflict with the facts. We actually have a PES that says some values that make something loose or loose, but we also repeatedly hear that with the data it gives, so now the value of that number, which is 70 or approaching 60, is going to work and based on that evaluation and the length of that duration will decide what the next procedure will be. So at this point, we are in a situation where the Minister has come to an opinion that he will make some progress, you will convey the procedure to the media, but not to us. We can also figure it out and we can figure it out, but the figure about how long it's going to take, it's not defined. The PES doesn't solve, he says - week, two weeks. But in order for someone to say it in a binding way, it's only the one who decides, that's the Minister of Health, possibly after consulting the government. That is why I believe that the objection, which my colleague Bendl said, is justified, because you already know the result at the moment, you know what you're going to say at the press conference, but we're not going to know. I say again that I'm a doctor, I can work with the data in the PES system, I have a few reservations against it, I consider some things inaccurate or misleading, but I'm not able to answer how you're going to tell that conclusion at the press conference this afternoon from the PES values, just because it's not an automatic thing, it has a number of other evaluations. And also in the opening performance of PES, it was said that all the data was not just simple mathematics, but that they had to go through some analysis of the dynamics and a certain assessment of a number of other secondary factors that are not in PES as such, let it be the composition of the severely ill, age-old. [[Nesroz.]] We just don't have it. So the figure, if you have it, you should probably tell us. It's not something we have automatic access to. And now for that matter of yours, that means emergency issues. Indeed, this country is divided, probably divided 50-50: those who perceive covid as a huge problem, and those who degrade or do not consider it to require an intense and serious solution. This is at this point, I think, one of the biggest mistakes that remained from before the month and others, that this division of opinion persists. I would expect the intensity of explaining this problem to be such that the knowledge of this nation will change in some way. In order to do so, all the decisions that we have here must be constantly justified, people must also be kept informed about whether the covid is light or severe disease, because so far it is presented as a severe disease for people old or for people sick, so everyone thinks it doesn't concern me, it is a light disease. And, of course, we know that the disease has consequences even in a light course, that it's a matter of microembolization and microbleeding, a question that can affect the entire other life of the person who's been through it, that they've already described problems with brain function, with liver function, with kidney function. I know these are things that can't be said so easily. But they should sound in some form, because the group that thinks the disease is easy should in some form know that it has some other, another risk. It's not just that we're not gonna feel and we're gonna have a headache and we're gonna have a.38. That it could be any other way. [[12.50 hours]] These are all things that should be heard, because if we want to push for something, we're going to push far more if people are d'accord, if they agree to it. If, in principle, they understand that it is necessary. And that's not gonna solve any emergency. Only communication can solve that. If you want to take a major preventive action in the field of oncology, for example, the couple drove around England for eight years to convince them how to prevent cervical cancer. [[Nesroz.]] Then the virus was found, it was the Nobelův Prize, and it started to work. And this is the same situation. If we don't, you won't, because it's your duty to communicate with these people, there won't be a change of heart. I think that, of course, the nation can be divided into two halves, but it should also have the basis for why it has that view. And it is the duty of the Ministry and the government to release the information perfectly so that it makes the decision, so that the opinion of those people is really based on the facts that you know or that we know of in this field. And that's got to do with the emergency issue. Of course, the emergency situation solves a number of things. I have a slightly different opinion about whether something can be done without emergency conditions or not, because the system we have, the system that has the head of the health care professional and then the individual health care technicians, can solve a whole series of things at the level of the PES 1, PES 2,. There's no need for an emergency. And an emergency is an interesting thing that brings a lot of bans into our lives. Well, maybe in a way they're dealing with the epidemic. Or, in my opinion, the measures help and solve it, yes. But on the other hand, it also allows the government to deal with a number of things in the House that would normally never have been dealt with or would normally not have been dealt with simply because it would be presented as an emergency matter. I therefore believe that an emergency situation is a matter which must be justified, that the justification must be absolutely clear and that we must be able to consider whether or not the emergency situation is necessary, according to the development of the situation. I think we should now extend the emergency by eight days, until next Friday, and meet again next Friday. And we would put forward what we think about the further development. You would present what the next development is. And I would very much like it if, in fact, such steps were to take place regularly after a week, that we would always meet here, there is always a House anyway. I'm sure we'll be happy to come up with such an important thing, because the problem will escalate. Not medical. Medically, it's gonna have some kind of development, which maybe the statistical numbers are already predicting, maybe not. It's just because the twist is possible at any time, and it's possible that we're not actually able to influence it with these measures simply because if I wanted to be very rigorous, the virus mutates and can change its properties and can start acting in a fundamentally different way. These are all theories we know and we know and we've experienced. So what's about to happen, we're getting closer and closer to Christmas. It is becoming ever closer to the time of the year, when our relationship with those days is completely different, has some complex family ties, and it will be absolutely necessary if at this stage the problem continues so that we can communicate about it. Don't make it automatic. It's just because if we were to keep some of these measures in the Christmas season, God forbid, not how you took God's name here, too, to the House, but we have to be able to express ourselves. The emergency situation prevents us, as a collective elected body, from expressing or expressing with these questions something that I understand as agreeing with the principle. That is why I think that extending the emergency for more than one week is the treatment of ammunition, armed and not secure. We're here to be the insurance policy, the parliamentary insurance policy of what's going on in this country. We can't give any open promises or gifts. We must work to deal with this situation as quickly and as quickly as possible and not abuse the mechanism that the law gives us to use the emergency mechanism. On the contrary, we must make every effort to make sure that the issue of this emergency is no longer necessary. Therefore, I repeat again, I think that the next emergency hearing should be in eight days. And there already with specific things to discuss how the emergency situation will continue, and do so regularly and systematically, because control is our duty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u45	So now, with priority rights, the Minister of Education has asked Robert Plaga to speak. Just a heads-up, I'll call a break at 1:00. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to Mr. Docent's words. You certainly don't have to worry about any surprises. I was here earlier saying that in the field of education, and not only in the field of education, we have prepared the detailed matrix. This means that yes, the timing when the steps referred to in point 4 are triggered is a decision of human, professional and with the responsibility of the Minister of Health. And it's so right that we don't have a vending machine, and I'll tell you why right now. I'll take my field of education. If we approach this as a vending machine, on the seventh day at a lower level, we should click to the next level, which, for example, in the field of education, could mean that the entire level of 4 would apply as of Monday. At that point, however, in the field of education, we are in a situation that would be rightly criticised, and that is that schools did not have sufficient time to prepare for the change, a demanding change in the organisation of teaching. That means, I can assure you that at level 4, all the measures described in the school matrix, even in that matrix superior to that "dog," will be implemented in point 4. The only question, and that's why we held negotiations with the school heads and so that it would fit the school system, the schools would have time to prepare, the parents knew about it, and the pupils could prepare and it would fit the system. That means there's no change in the measures, I can calm you down. The timing is a change that is quite logical not to be an automatic system, but a system that takes into account the needs of the area, in my case the area of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u47	So now I will give the room to Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who, of course, here... [[The Member is coming to the ballroom at a rapid pace.]] He's here. Just a heads-up, honourable Member, that I will call a break in a minute. Otherwise, for work reasons, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr President. The minister surprised me at speed, so I was running. I thought a break would be announced, which I guess will happen in a minute. I only want to respond to my previous speaker, Dominik Feri, because the Minister was not here, and I volunteered to respond to how, as a government and coalition MP, we proceed in the case of student practice, whether voluntary or then on the basis of a work obligation within health and social facilities, whether it concerns high school students or college students, because there are basically three regimes. Work obligation, volunteering and then realization of practice. Each trip has a little different rules, and we are on the school committee yesterday, and I know through my colleague, through the President's colleague Procházková that the Health Committee also dealt with the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u49	So, madam, I will interrupt you, but you will not lose your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u50	You'll know after lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u51	I'm just gonna tell you how it's gonna go. I am now interrupting this meeting, which will continue after the 65th meeting, which I will begin at 14.00. I'm doing this on the basis of an agreement. After I interrupt the 65th meeting, this meeting will continue, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will continue. And subsequently, Minister Jan Blatný is prepared with priority rights, who would like to respond to the current debate. So it'll be after 14 o'clock. And so now I'm putting out an hour-to-hour break and at the same time I'm asking the members of the Organizing Committee to attend the Organizing Committee. It will be five minutes after the meeting, i.e. 13.05. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u52	We will continue the adjourned 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It's a point we interrupted before lunch. This is a proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. We have interrupted this point in the debate, so we will continue the debate. It was interrupted in the debate by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I have to ask you at the same time - we have not identified the rapporteur, so I want to ask you, because you are going to speak, if you would also take the rapporteur to this point. The first in the debate was Mr Feri, but he is not here and was not intended by my predecessor, who was in charge of the meeting. So you'd like to take it, Madame? So we'll also make you a rapporteur, and I'll ask you to follow the proposals. Please, you have your word now. We interrupted you in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable government, I signed up for the debate because I wanted to respond to Dominik Feri, who spoke here about the situation in the case of the employment of students and university students training doctors and other medical professions. As I mentioned before the break, we, of course, are dealing with this situation on the school committee and also on the health committee. Specifically on the school committee, this is done by my colleague Věra Procházková, who happens to be a member of the health committee as well. The situation now takes place in three ways from the point of view of helping our students and secondary and university students in the field of health professions. The first is the question of volunteering for our students both in secondary schools and in higher education institutions; the second is the situation where they implement aid through so-called practice, i.e. in both cases, in secondary schools and universities, and the third situation is, of course, the most sensitive. We, as coalition MPs, feel this extremely sensitive, and this is a question of the employment obligation of our high and university students in the field of health professions in health establishments. Why do we feel sensitive? Thus, of course, we perceive the work obligation of everyone who is ordered by citizens, especially in times of emergency, sensitive, perhaps natural, but we are indeed the only country that has taken this step in the case of students. We are the only country in Europe. For this reason, in view of the gradual stabilisation of the situation in health establishments, we want students to return only to education, not to do this work obligation and to devote themselves to their study duties. However, until the situation completely calms down, the good news for the House, as well as, where appropriate, for students and parents who listen, is that, in the case of universities that educate health professions, it is not just a doctor, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has reached an agreement with the relevant rectors and with the relevant deans of medical and other faculties which educate our students in medical professions, how it will be done, if possible, by analogy and in agreement, the recognition of practice. I will not discuss this in detail here, but this agreement has been reached, that is, our students and students in the case of practice need not worry and their alma mater, faculties will approach them in the same way and will, of course, inform them about this agreement and the situation. As far as the work obligation is concerned, I have already mentioned the common will, when we agreed with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports that it should be reduced over time. As far as the final agreement on work obligations is concerned, but also what is the domain, your way, Mr Mr Svoboda, is a question of qualification and recognition at all, not only in the time of the covid, but also in terms of the use of medicines and other health professions in the context of the practice of health care establishments, because there are a number of unexplained issues, and also towards the public, but also towards you, dear colleagues, we will finish this matter in cooperation with the Health Committee and the Education Committee, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education by 9 December, when further steps and procedures should therefore be clear. I consider it important to mention this here at the House, because it is a matter that only concerns universities, 3,000 students and students, as well as a large number of high school students. So much pure information and response to Dominik Feri's previous contribution, it means that we really care for students and students to know what will happen and what they should do. I hope that's an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u54	I have now had the priority right of Minister Jan Blatný to sign up. [[He's not present in the hall.]] His application is still failing. Mr Tomáš Martínek will now appear. Mr Tomáš Martínek is also not available, so Mr Vít Kaňkovský will now speak. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u55	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, I am very sorry, but since I wanted to lead my speech primarily to Minister Blatný, I am now giving up my right to speak and signing up for the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u56	The next one will be Mr. Vlastimil Válek. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. And Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since things are going so well, I won't be talking for long either. Basically, it's a good thing the student practice arranged for her to be respected isn't such a big deal. Problem is, they're in hospitals instead of internships. And those internships are hard to replace. The deans can agree on that, but if they're not in those internships, they won't know what the internships said. And also in that hospital, when they're day and night, they're serving there, so they're hard to learn for exams and for graduate students. However, I believe that if the school committee and the deans agree to do something about it, the students will understand it, and apparently the school committee and the deans will agree on how they should learn and how to do the internships. But that's irrelevant. I like that there's a plan. I thanked the Minister for that. I am glad that it originated very quickly, and I am glad that there is material that can be discussed and discussed. It's a shame we didn't discuss the material before, and then it wasn't published. And I'll explain my little problem. I've got a lot of problems like that, but this one's specific. So let's say everything goes well. She's improving the situation, and it's a good thing that these measures work, and it's a good thing that citizens are trying to follow them, and they need to be thanked for it, because they're really trying really hard to get all the rules we've set up by the government to approve Parliament, to work, and so I'm optimistic and I hope that the situation will improve at a fast pace and that, say, around 20 December, we'll get somewhere between 0 and 19 points, so it's going to be PES 1. And now the Temple of St. Vitus, you all know the Temple of St. Vitus. There'll be a service at ten o'clock, according to the "dog" number. 1 will be able to be 100 participants at that service at svatý Vít', the church will be followed by a concert, which will be able to be in the same St. Vitus's Temple of 1,000 participants, they will have to be in the sectors. And the concert is over, and there's gonna be a normal tour. That could be a different number of groups, I don't know what the absolute number of those groups is, but there won't be any (?) groups. I can only be 50. It's still gonna be St. Vitus' Temple. And that's the little thing, the problem I have with it. Second problem. We all know in the fall that in the winter there are ski sales, schools organizing them, various... That means I'm already seeing this sale, I'm putting it in a group event in indoor and outdoor spaces that are limited without the size of that space to 100 people, so I'm imagining that gym in that little school, that 100 people are gonna be there, and they're gonna be shopping and selling those supplies, because there's nothing stopping it, because if it's gonna be a bazaar of those winter needs, that doesn't include a 15 square meter rule, or how many one person. If I sum it up. What's going on over and over again is very difficult - because these people are pointing out this, now I haven't invented any of it, these are questions from e-mails that I've responded to because it's complicated, the calculation is complicated, and that it reflects the answers, and let's say, the opinions of experts, because I'm trying to be loyal and support this here. But then when I think about the questions calmly, I can't think of the answer right. I don't know why there's another number of people in that same church, if there's a service, another number of people when there's a concert, and another number of people when there's a tour. I don't know why 100 people at the service can be in the Temple of St.Vitus and in a tiny chapel and both are 100 people when the space is differently large and the service in both of those spaces lasts as long. I'm sure there's some reasonable, logical explanation that experts can explain to you. If it sounds here, I'd be glad. But it doesn't matter if it doesn't. However, the devil is hiding in detail. And if there's too much detail like that, the devil will overcome the good we're trying to do ourselves with a plan. I would very much hate for this to come to the same conclusion in this case. Therefore, please, let us remove from these plans, from these strategies, these incomprehensible details, these ambiguities, and at least from the first good nonsense, and let us really work together on them. I've been saying what I've been saying for months. For the TOP 09, I am ready to help at any time at any time to discuss it - before it is published before it sounds at press conferences. When I am to respond to what has been said, it is difficult for me to be just correct and loyal, although I respect my colleagues who have prepared it very much and I personally appreciate the Minister very much. That's all I wanted to say, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u58	So now, with priority rights, Mr Jakub Michálek. I merely point out that factual remarks are not used in this case under Section 109m. So with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just needed to clarify one thing. We were based on the fact that in § 58 para. The Rules of Procedure provide that any person who is not present in the Chamber at the time when he is given the floor loses order. If he is not present even immediately before the end of the debate, his application shall be forfeit, and this provision shall not be excluded in the provisions governing the emergency situation. So I don't think the speakers who have been logged in have been present at the hearing, for example, in our case, the media committee should be placed at the end of the order, if I understand correctly, not completely crossed out. If it's possible to count on it like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u60	It's possible to count on it. I was counting on them to come back, so we're going to put them back in, because the computer system doesn't allow me to put them on the last... So I'd have to deal with it manually. Well, if the request is, then I'm not gonna leave anybody out of it. So the request was from you, Mr Martínek, if I remember correctly? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] I know, priority is not a problem. This is where we dealt with those who aren't priority. The prefers just get in and it's settled. And the Minister had a request from Mrs Valachová. Now the Minister has arrived, so if you are interested in speaking now with a response, we will give priority to the Minister and Mr Martínek for Mr Vít Kaňkovský. So I'm gonna ask if he could be listed as Mr. Kaňkovský, if you could tap Mr. Martínek there. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond to the questions raised before the break. For one thing, there was mention of association activity, various forest clubs and other types of education for children. I completely agree with what parents write to you and to me, that when it comes to own education, it is equal to ordinary education, but it is an alternative education which is not categorized in the same way, which is why it is very difficult to take it in the same legal way. So there's some kind of attempt to solve this, but at a time when it's a legal form that's comparable to other associations and other activities, we can't legally separate it from each other. Again, I point out that the moment we get to a lower risk score, it will stop being a problem. But I see it as the necessary thing that our lawyers have also received, as well as the main health care professional to deal with, and we will deal with it. Fighting misinformation is a fundamental problem. It needs to be continued. It is being updated by a group of people who, in cooperation with other ministries and with the Office of the Government, will cooperate on this, and they are not just people from our press department, so I believe that in a short time this fight with misinformation will be strengthened from the position of the Ministry of Health. Then I will return to what has been repeatedly said here that the whole situation is not actually discussed with others. I again point out what I said before the break, that in a very short time, it is only a formal delay, the group will be created, an advisory body of the Minister, which will include representatives of health committees, representatives of all parliamentary parties, representatives of professional organisations, and this, from my point of view, is absolutely essential, a group that will immediately and instantly pass on this information. And, of course, I am always prepared to inform the Chamber of Deputies about how the situation is developing. It's also the way to bring the opposing element into all the preparation. As for the group that was quoted here and which is on our website, these are mainly statistics and mathematical modellers, so please only prepare the score. It is not that these people decide what measures will be. I also agree with all of you who have said here that the media are not and cannot be the primary source of information or the way in which we transmit information to each other. I have nothing to say about that. I've already talked about the doghouse here, but I'll do it again. The dog is not human and it is basically veterinary service. That's the difference. The moment we free up the hair salon and care for the body, we would immediately create disproportion with respect to other services and businessmen. A registered partnership has also been quoted here. We treat regular weddings exactly as we treat registered partnerships. And I said yesterday that there was a formal error, that the text of the registered partnership had fallen out, and it would have been corrected by the end of this week. That's the mistake we're applying for, and it was just a formal error in the preparation of the press. There's no way we're questioning a registered partnership. Then there was a question about how these measures follow up on each other, that they were random. I beg to differ here. On the contrary, they are very precisely defined, tied up, everyone can read them in advance. For several times now, I understand that this is a question that resonates, and we're talking about small business in society. Again, the supermarket is as open as a small colonial. There are even more small shops open to the number of shops than supermarkets. The truth is, of course, it doesn't match the number of square feet. And in a moment, if I suddenly freed up all the shops, then there will be such a massive increase in mobility that probably the same Members who are now criticizing that the shops are not open would probably criticize me for making it inappropriately possible for me to open up all the shops and that the situation has deteriorated. So here, please, there's no way that this is a liquidation or a downside to somebody, but it's an attempt to bring a system into it. Then I think we're talking very specifically, that it's no random or day-to-day screaming into the dark, and I'm going to draw attention again to the group that's preparing and that's going to provide the opponent. As regards what was said at the press conference, there was nothing announced there that Members did not know. I told all of you here that I would propose to the government on Friday to switch the whole country to level 4, so I said at the press conference, and Minister Plaga was just saying how he imagined individual steps in education if the government approved it. The government hasn't approved it yet, I believe it will, but it won't happen until tomorrow. Then there were, and that's the penultimate answer, quoted by the service. I also mentioned that, yes, it would be a mistake if more people could come to the church for a concert than at the service, and to correct this discrepance is being worked out and it will be resolved very soon. And what Mr. Válek mentioned here, part of it was the sides of the churches. Then it was mentioned whether so many or so people fit into some sort of elementary school exchange. So I'm just pointing out that the system sets maximum numbers, not minimum. There may be a maximum of 100, or 50, or some other number of people in order to preserve hygienic-epidemiological scaling. This means, where there is a small space, it will be dealt with in some way by another. At a time when there would be doubt, hygiene can enter into this, virtually. public health authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u62	So it was Minister Jan Blatný and now Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will speak and Mr Václav Klaus will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we honored the victims of the coronavirus pandemic this morning. I would also like to add to this an expression of deep sympathy and deep condolences to the families from which these people left. And I can certainly, I think, speak for all of us, that no one wants another victim of the covid. If emergency measures lead to the prevention of further deaths on covid, it is appropriate to bear the emergency situation. Although I don't think any of us are happy about it. This is essential to protect the health and lives of vulnerable groups and people on the front line. Medics, people from social services, as well as teachers, by providing protective equipment and organizational measures. The PES matrix should be used for this, as most people know it today, I think. And I thank the Minister of Health and the Emergency Staff for having this matrix at our disposal today. But people should know when and in what situation an emergency will no longer be needed. We all need to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Those who are damaged economically from sectors that are closed, but also those most affected by the current crisis are single-parent families, single-parent families, but also families that take care of the disabled child or their disabled senior or otherwise disabled family member. They are the worst in general, but the current situation is really bad for them. Even in these families, according to the studies that we had been able to get to know in the family committee yesterday, there are not only economic problems, as many have already talked about them, including the risk of losing housing, and this is the deepening of the problems, but also an increase in mental health damage as a result of deep stress. [[14.40 hours]] That is why we, and now I speak for the Social Democrats, have enforced measures to support families. I'm glad there's been an alternative maintenance law here. There is a proposal for an amendment to the long-term infirmary law. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing to increase parental contributions. A lot to help the upcoming cursarbeit. We supported all proposals for compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the situation is evolving and there is a need to respond to it on an ongoing basis, so we cannot expect a solid plan that would be invariable, it simply cannot be done. But I repeat, it is essential to protect endangered groups. For example, by testing, providing protective aids and helping in social services and health care by the military, volunteers, students. The students have already been mentioned. I would like to appreciate not only medical and healthcare professionals, students who have been involved in care in hospitals, social services facilities, but I would also like to thank students from other fields who have been involved in sanitary services by entering call centers and taking up tracking. That's what happened to us in Zlín at the University of Tomáš Bati. They really owe them a thank you. Thanks to this enhanced tracking growth, you know that at one point it was stronger than here in Prague, to stop. But the appreciation of these students should not only be moral. There are some rewards for these students at the university. But of course there will be funds, as we agreed, from the Zlín Region. But the increase in tracking capacity was a demand for the Ministry of Health. It was a demand from the state, and therefore the state should also contribute, the Ministry of Health should contribute to making sure that these students not only receive the moral thanks, but also the reward. Even their families may be in trouble, even they themselves may be in trouble. I would like to stress that the need for people is not only in tracking, but also in other segments, especially in social services. The Union of employees of trade and services, which also brings together employees in social services, also points out that there are not enough protective suits in this segment in non-residential equipment. And if we want to protect the elderly and the disabled, testing also needs to be extended to non-residential services. We really need to do everything we can to get people to help. I would like to quote you from one statement from the Union's survey of employees of trade and services. Quote: We are desperately lacking backup caregivers in case of a blackout. For example, I serve in two people three times a 24-hour shift. I came from the last one this morning, I have another one on Saturday morning, and tomorrow I'm going to see a colleague who's home because she wasn't feeling well and waiting for testing. Except for the 24-hour shifts we've had since we were 11. Ten, we've been going for a year. We have 20 clients in the department, mostly immobile, in need of full custody. This is not an exception, we could certainly all quote from our practice and from our surroundings, and we could quote many of these situations. In order to ensure fast security in this area, the emergency situation certainly creates better conditions than if it were in standard operation. But I was also approached by Dr. Kubek, President of the Czech Medical Chamber, on the Health Committee, where he appealed to everyone's responsibility and patience. We need to know that we need to reduce health care demands, demands for beds in hospitals with covido patients so that our health system can return to the normal regime, as we were all used to, to the high-quality and high-quality care not only of patients with covido, but of everyone whose medical condition requires medical care. We need to protect people's lives and health and support health care, help them manage it. I believe that we can do all of this thanks to the measures that are clear today, they are clear, and if we respect them, they will certainly be 100% effective. I believe we can do this, and we'll be able to vote one last time today to prolong the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u64	I will now request the speech of Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u65	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. I will briefly state our position on the emergency situation, as the Trikolóra movement. We, like last time, will not support an extension of the emergency situation. I'll make a brief statement. This is a very serious disease, especially for a small part of the elderly, there is no doubt about it. On the other hand, I can't accept the untruths that somebody is saying about how the government is fighting, the opposition says that she started fighting late and stuff like that. I have noticed various opponents who called for relaxation, and now, with exactly the same expression, criticize that the release came soon. I really think that relatively little is related to government measures and the course of a viral epidemic of populations. We are in favour of an open economy, so that people in the retail sector can make money so that children can go to school, and we are in favour of it consensually all the time. The fact that we have overcome this second wave or the third wave, because this second Martyrium had two strong epidemic onsets in August and after the regional elections, is not really the fault or credit of the government. This is due to the robustness and quality of our health care and the work of health professionals. This is a simple fact, because we see a number of countries that have far less infected per population and have huge problems, significantly higher than we do. So this is one important factor. It is the ability of the health sector to face critical situations, which are in our country thanks to God and the enormous work force at a high level. [[14.50 hours]] All the epidemics of the world are shaped by a binomial distribution, whatever the epidemic, even this one. There is, of course, a discussion about how high the summit is and what it has to do with what the current health care is capable of, but one of the important things is to try to raise the bar that health care can take and not lower it. We have taken a number of precautions here, such as shutting down primary schools, driving dozens and hundreds of nurses and doctors out of the process, and, on the contrary, we have lowered the bar. I have not yet seen any real scientific work, respected to my great disappointment, which would tell us how measures, such as the need to swallow lunch on the street, not at a table like a curfew from 9:00 to 5:00 in the morning, affect the shape of the curve as the epidemic passes through the population. There's no such thing. Now, if we're consistent, there's one person allowed in the shops at 15 square meters. What's the actual data? If there are any valid ones, so by analogy, three people or four should go to one subway car, I don't know exactly how big the subway car is, but I think the subway is even more dangerous from the point of view of spreading some diseases, that it's more enclosed space. So I really think this is a misconception of completely random government measures, because it's a marketing requirement that the government should do something. When we look at this really, let's face it, of course, the impact of the measure is, but it must be said that the more draconian the bigger. If we actually shut down the whole Republic from A to Z, everyone will have a curfew, there will be exceptions of course, doctors and probably also government members, so we will actually prevent the spread of the virus in some way, but the milder the measures, so their impact is very questionable as it is, and I have never seen any such study from any government or scientific community. What is happening is the economic destruction of the middle class, which can have fatal effects on democracy in the Czech Republic and, of course, on the economy. Let me give you one more example. We don't take much of these draconian measures here in the House. There are 200 of us, sometimes 100 of us, there are 100 other journalists, 100 of the chefs and all the good people who help us here at work, and we are people who have extremely many contacts with other people as people who engage in public activities. If I were a setter or a hermit, I'd meet three people in that time, but now I've met 3,000 people during the campaign and here in the House. So in the House, we do not follow any government measures against the spread of coronavirus, or do we simply behave as if dangerously - well, what are the dates, how many deceased and infected Members and things like that? What was the fatal impact on this society, where there are particularly older people, or on average, except for the pirát, more risky groups? So let's ask ourselves this question. It's very clear. Two. It's a specific example again, but it shows how beautifully we fight. So my colleague on the bench, Mr Mihola, had a covid. And I found out on Facebook. If I wasn't friends with him as a friend on Facebook, I wouldn't know, and I wouldn't have come here once if I had a temperature so I wouldn't have infected Mr. Kaňkovský, who is a doctor. But other than that, she's a total loser. So let's not kid ourselves around here about fighting an epidemic or fighting an epidemic. The epidemic is going through the population, and now, thank God, it's going to leave, and it's going to leave in a number of other countries of the world where the outbreak was gradual. And I really don't see the slightest scientific justification that when children go to second grade and third grade, and the kind of measures that are pulled out of a hat that make things fatal. So our proposal is still permanent: open schools, open small establishments, do not just support those multinational big giants and electronic ones, open restaurants. And the Trikolóra won't support the emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u66	Yes, wait a minute. We're putting together here now, recapitulating the proposals that have fallen on the length of the emergency so far, there's only a government proposal for 30 days. And I wanted to ask Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, because you said twice in your speech that you thought eight days, but it didn't seem like it was your proposal, so... It is therefore Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's proposal for eight days. So we have two proposals so far to make a note of this, and the rapporteur here has been newly designated, so she can keep an eye on it. [[The President shall speak outside the microphone with the rapporteur.]] What? Top too? So there's more. I'm begging you, now we're gonna have a conversation in a different direction. I'll give the rapporteur the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u67	A serious colleague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u68	It's just that we need these proposals to fall by proposing that way and so that it's not like it's in the speech, by the way. So, the rapporteur. Please. Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u69	Mr President, it is all about whether colleagues and colleagues want to recapitulate at the moment. If not, we can wait a little longer. Of course, I've got it marked. [[So if you've got everything marked, it's okay.]] I've got a hit on who filed the motion, who didn't file it. I recommend, Mr President, wait for the debate to be completed. And, of course, I note this carefully, regardless of the fact that I was then determined. Maybe it caused your concern.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u70	Okay, it's okay to keep track. So we'll continue the discussion. Because we consulted the organizational department here, too, and it wasn't quite clear who said it clearly, explicitly. So I will also ask other debaters, if necessary, to make it clear that this is a proposal for us to vote on this. prosit, the chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and with priority rights is reporting to Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for the floor. I'll start with what you asked me to do. On behalf of our MP, I confirm what Mr. Docent Svoboda mentioned in the debate. We propose that we extend the emergency by eight days, until Friday, November 27th, under certain conditions. And the terms, I'll get to them. I've been trying to listen to this debate all morning, and I don't think we're taking it in the right direction. The Vice-President here says, above all, how many days - thirty, fourteen, ten, eight, four. But I don't think it matters. That's not what the public cares about. The public is interested in what measures will be effective and what they will have to follow. And the more they understand it, the more they're willing to follow and the less control, enforcement, and compliance checks. [[Nesroz.]] If the government meant it honestly... [[A colleague brought the speaker background material.]] If the government meant it honestly... I don't know why such a favorite pet was used for such an unpopular thing as a color chart. Poor dog, how he got it. But if you read it well, the Minister of Health is here, I understand, whatever the level is, the government wants an emergency. Even if it's level one. So what's the logic of the government's request for 30 days? The Minister of Health thinks we'll be under stage 1 within 30 days? Or what kind of game is this? If I were to take the color chart seriously, the government is telling us that it's gonna be here by the end of spring, maybe by the beginning of summer, an emergency. And no one in the government said anything about that. I want to draw attention to the measures, because I think that's more important. And if people are to respect them, and that's what we want, of course, they have to have some logic, and those people have to understand the logic. And it must not be unfair, even if there is no full justice. [[15.00 hours]] That's how the government seems to love big, big businessmen. I can't go buy a book at my favorite little bookstore. I can't. The government forbade me. But I can buy it at the hypermarket. I can't go to a little shoe shop where I'm used to shopping, the government forbids me, I can buy the same shoe at the hypermarket. I can't buy toys at my favorite toy shop, I can buy them at the hypermarket. I can't go try on clothes for who buys and brings good clothes, but I can buy clothes at the hypermarket. And I could go on like this. And then we really want people to understand? What kind of attitude is that? One of those conditions for encouraging an extension of the emergency situation is that the government actually immediately open small establishments, small shops, services, service for the same regime measures as they have large ones. We don't want better conditions for the little ones, softer conditions, less regulations that have to be followed by their customers. We want the same. I feel like nobody in the government has been shopping for these past few weeks and months as a normal citizen. If this is a fight against people gathering in one place, you've never been to those stores. Do you really think there's a distance of two meters in these hypermarkets? Have you ever been there on Fridays or Saturdays? Not in a government limo, but so they don't recognize you in civilian clothes. Do you really think that's true? It's much better in that little shop than in the big one. I'm not happy about it, but I see the real state of things and I want to talk about it. And let the Minister of Health explain to me what the difference is when they have the same measures, small or large. I would still understand if, as the Minister of Industry, Trade, Transport said yesterday, and I don't know what else, but certainly not entrepreneurs and businesses, that in that additional sale, the large shops only have an increase in sales by 5%. But in the billion-dollar turnovers. How happy the little ones would be if they could share the 5% and still follow the regulations, as the great ones do. Let's not make a difference, and let's not make a big deal against the small ones. We need both. Health Ministers have been changing as often as councillors on the clock lately. Every new minister will say that he wants to improve communication so that the government can speak with one voice. That's the right target. But yesterday began to be controversial, in my opinion, a completely incomprehensible measure: one customer per 15 square meters. Yesterday it started to apply, yesterday morning, and the same day the Minister of Industry, Transport, Trade and I don't know what he's gonna say: I'm gonna suggest Friday to be different. Are we normal? The government is making fun of us. And in an hour, the Minister of Health will come forward and say, "I'm against it." And the Minister of Industry will say, and I'm in. And what are the citizens supposed to take out of it? You shut down business on Sundays, so people wouldn't gather. Well, they gather more on Fridays and Saturdays. Then the Minister of Industry, Transport will come and I don't know what with the right suggestion that we open on Sunday. I don't think anybody's gonna know when the store is closed, you're gonna go to the store, and you're either gonna buy it or you're not. And Minister Havlíček will explain to you that it's actually a good thing that they've always meant it, he'll never admit anything wrong. It really has no logic, and we can hardly ask people to understand it. And if they understand, they'll follow it. But this mess that doesn't end in exchange for the Minister of Health just goes on. Someone's already talked about it, I think one of the previous speakers - logic: 15 people can go to church for church service today, when the government has released it, but if you do a concert in the same church, 50 of them can. Mr. Secretary, would you mind explaining that to me? What difference does it make when there are believers and they pray at 50? So it's less risky than when there's 50 visitors to the concert? Really? And I could go on like this. That is why I want us to focus our debate more on the concrete measures and concrete actions. The government is said to limit office hours so that people don't gather. What does that really mean? Those who have to change their license, their I.D., their traffic signs, they have less chance of just, I think, ten hours a week. So what's the result? There'll be more people there. One at a time. My biggest regret, then, is that the government is planning an emergency sometime by the end of spring. It's the only way. How else are we supposed to understand this table? Let's get back to the compensation. The government has triggered some compensation, some are right and others are inadequate. I was talking about it last week when we voted on the compensation bonus. A businessman who has an employee or an associate of a small eseróček who has an employee and such is not few can draw either support for himself or for employees. One of our other conditions to support the prolongation of the emergency situation is to allow the consummation of the compensatory bonus and Antivirus programme. Let's not put employers against employees. Let us not force small eseróček's tradesmen and companions to choose between support for themselves and support for their employees. We should also forgive the contributions to the tradesmen who are receiving a compensatory bonus. They can't do business, they get 500 crowns a day when they sacrifice their employees, that's about 15,000, but minimum reserves make up 5,000. And the government says in the blink of an eye that they give the businessmen 15 grand a month. But he'll take five away from them right away. So the government was supposed to tell the truth: the government is giving the tradesmen $10,000. I don't understand if we look at museums and galleries for example, why they couldn't be open again under strict regime measures. I don't see why. Even under normal circumstances, if you know, for example, regional museums, these are not places where there is an overpressure of visitors. We can go to the store, but we can't go to the museum. There's just no explaining it. The government is slowly improving, but I feel like we're in April. The government wants to do something in November and says, "We already have a dog." November. Not in April or May. And yet so problematic. The biggest invasion of personal freedom is a curfew after 9:00 p.m. I don't want to say when it was the last time in our territory. I'd like to know what it's really worth. At 20.58 I can still walk the park under the conditions that change, but not at 21.05. And the minister will figure out that I'm not allowed out after 9:00 p.m., but I can shop until 9:00 p.m. And now he's got a fictional story that I didn't break curfew when I came from the store. But nothing like that is true. The only exception is that I'm out of a job. If we say to each other that anyone who buys in a job does a customer's job, then he's right, otherwise there's no logic. And that's it: I guarantee you, the police won't stand there. Then why is the ban even if the police won't control it? I don't understand at all. The minister says that everything is done quickly, in the running, there is no time to communicate. But if the government is unable to explain and justify the steps it is taking, it can be no wonder that these steps do not have confidence and that society does but does not understand. And the longer the situation lasts, the greater the risk that measures are not to be implemented in the end, and I don't think that's what anyone would want. I could read to you, and I will do so, the things that we think the government should actually do immediately. And it is rather to cry and to sigh that the government was unable to do so from 1 March to 19 November. I have talked about opening small shops and establishments under the same conditions as the large ones under which they are opened; to open services, repair and servicing services when certain arrangements have been complied with; to abolish the ban on sales on Sunday; to reconsider the pointless rule of one customer per 15 square meters; to forgive the tradesmen's contributions; in order to allow the combination of the compensatory bonus and the Antivirus programme to be drawn; to extend the range of compensation also for entrepreneurs and businesses indirectly affected by government measures related to the Chinese flu. [[15.10 hours]] In the field of education, the situation is slowly improving. And I think that the government should do everything for the gradual return of all pupils to schools, even at the cost of strict regime measures, but especially on conditions, we must not forget that teachers and especially risk groups among educators will be protected. That's a necessary condition. It doesn't really make sense without it. In the field of health, the government should publish a plan for the recovery of the functioning of health facilities to the full extent so that we know when hospitals will be able to do what they were doing outside the covid crisis. I think that the government should draw up, publish and justify the vaccination plan so that we are not surprised again, that it is already a vaccine, and we do not know what society and how we will proceed. When we look among the states that belong to our allies, there are already very detailed plans that are being discussed publicly, and the public is gradually getting to know them and also identifying them. I think that in churches and synagogues, religious services and meetings should be allowed, once again, at the cost of regime measures. I think it can be done. I was talking about opening museums and galleries. The government should assess the measures taken. I guess we've forgotten when we were in an emergency. October 5th! And that's when the government announced it, so she said, we're going to publish gradual measures, and in 14 days, we're going to evaluate how they work. Since then, the government has been changing these measures at roughly twice a week. That means there's been an assumption that after two weeks, some specific measure will be evaluated. When we have measures starting Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Monday, Wednesday, Friday - and luckily the numbers are going in the right direction - then who of us is going to say what specific measure it took when one pays ten days, one eight, one six, one four? And something's on tomorrow and something's on Monday and next Wednesday. I think this actually makes it impossible to have a serious debate about which measures have contributed more to the suppression of the pandemic of Chinese influenza and which has contributed less. We'd need the government, it's been almost two months to do and to us Members, and so she's told the public, on October 5th we've introduced this, and it's true until today, and we think it has these effects. October 8th, we did this. We changed it on October 10th. We closed the schools on October 14th. And I could go on like this. In addition, an evaluation of how this has contributed to the objective that we have in common. I think that, in parallel with the impact of individual measures on the health situation of the population, the functioning of the health system should be assessed in the same way as those measures in the economic area, what negative effects they had, how they will be compensated and how the government will compensate for the damage that has been caused. And then I think the poor dog's government should redo it so we can have information when the emergency situation isn't necessary. I was actually starting out that if I were to take the color chart seriously, the government here should ask for an extension of the emergency for four months. Or when the risk is almost zero? Will the government say he doesn't need an emergency? Really? Not if it's ten, fifteen, eighteen, twenty-two? I don't understand it at all, which wouldn't be as important as the fact that the public doesn't understand it. The debate about extending the emergency isn't the first. There I would still understand certain shortcomings on the part of the government. So try to evaluate the Prime Minister's speech today on such a serious matter. When I say it was a sloppy performance, I'm very tolerant. I have expected a convincing speech from the Prime Minister's mouth, compelling reasons why the government needs this, giving our citizens hope, setting specific goals, specific conditions to be met. I'm afraid none of that came out. So, really, the show, and I didn't expect that much, I'm very disappointed. Since the information we have been asking for in the long run is not news from what I have formulated, the government has not done anything, so I want to say that our proposal to give the government eight days to meet these conditions or to announce today is reasonable, we will work on it, we will prepare it, so it is a rather helpful step on the part of the opposition. Thirty days of Bianca's check is from the realm of dreams. I think the government itself is aware that it will fail. But I'm going back to what I started out with. That number's in second place. In the first place are specific measures, their explanation, justification, evaluation. And if something goes wrong with the government, I wish her the strength to admit it and say, we have a better solution, we're sorry, the proposal for two official days wasn't reasonable, people concentrate on the authorities. Closing Sunday was not reasonable, people concentrate on Fridays and Saturdays. It wasn't reasonable that we closed down the small stores and made the big ones available. And I could go on like this. Let's see what else is going to sound like in the debate today. I'm really sorry. Such an important point. From a constitutional point of view, an emergency situation is quite an emergency. Look at these benches behind me. [[Only the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health sits in the government bench.]] It's the government's torso. I would expect the government to be here as one man and one woman to explain to the public why it needs to be done, what needs to be done to make it happen, and not that again: so they say something, maybe we can arrange some votes, see what the communists say about it, we'll make a statement. Unfortunately, this is a sad picture of our debate today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u72	Mr. Marian Jurečka will now speak with priority right and will be prepared with priority right by the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. And Mr Radek Koten is still ready. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. So I have two areas to clear up some issues here. So, for the KDU-ČSL club, and then I will, of course, also put it in a detailed debate, I want to say, because it didn't say in my opening appearance this morning that we're going to propose an extension of the emergency period until December 4th, which means about 14 days. Then I would also like to say one more thing that when I listened carefully to the words of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, I regretd that the Prime Minister probably did not look at the last accompanying resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies when there was an extension of the emergency situation in the Czech Republic at the time, because there are quite a few points in the resolution when the Chamber of Deputies imposed some things on the government, some of which also recommended points III, IV. There was also point V - asking the government, even point VI - imposing on the government. [[Resolution 1327.]] And each of these points, in terms of these individual areas, had several other points, where it was specifically discussed, what the House is asking the government or what it is calling for the government to do. It seemed logical to me that when the Prime Minister came here as Prime Minister, he would also do the settlement of what the House had decided at such an important step here about three weeks ago, she asked. And actually, these things weren't settled, they weren't answered. And the material we received as Members is far from being answered. So I'm just reminding you, now that the Minister of the Interior is going too, which I'm glad the head of the Central Crisis Staff has come here too, if the members of the government had a look at this, and maybe even during today's meeting they went through and were able to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u74	The Interior Minister Jan Hamáček will now appear. And the Minister of Health Jan Blatný signed up here with priority rights, so the Minister will go after the Minister of the Interior. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u75	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, hello. Unlike some other colleagues and those with priority rights, I waited, I didn't want to start, I wanted to listen to the debate and possibly respond to it, so I'm only performing now. And I have to say, I have a lot of conflicting feelings about this debate here. I thought, and somehow I still think, that the situation in terms of what needs to be done is quite clear. I feel like we all know who the enemy is. The enemy is a virus. And we all know that until we beat him, we just don't get into a normal situation. And by defeat, I mean tame him. It's not that we have to completely exterminate him, I don't think that's gonna work. But it's also going to be a victory if those numbers from those tens of thousands or low tens of thousands fall to hundreds. This is definitely a success, and this is a situation where the development can be controlled, notabene, when vaccines are on the horizon. So, from my point of view, the enemy is clear, the goal is also clear, and from my point of view, the tools are clear, too, because I assume that as legislators we know the legal order of the Czech Republic, and as far as we know - and we agreed on it, I hope all - that the main word in the fight against the epidemic is to have experts, expert groups that work at the Ministry of Health, and if methodically this fight is to be run by the Ministry of Health, then the methods and procedures they propose need to be put in line with the legal order of the Czech Republic. There's no other way. And when I put it all together like that, it's gonna be a pretty simple thing for me to do. If experts at the Ministry of Health - and by the way not only Czech, when you look at the world, these methods are all the same and they are the same everywhere, of course with other accents, with other numbers, with other meters, tracks, numbers etc., but those methods are all the same, because no one has thought of anything better. That means before we find the vaccine, and if we need to turn the curve around, we just need to limit interpersonal contact. How do we limit interpersonal contact? Well, by preventing people from meeting. There's some political priority that we don't want to shut down the economy, I agree with that, we can't afford that, so we've removed quite a decent part from the segment that can be regulated, which we're dealing with as much as we can at home office, and then we have a few sectors left that we can regulate - shopping, restaurants, cultural events, gathering events. So in order to cope with the epidemic, we're going through regulation in this direction. How can we do this? Well, according to the law. And if the Ministry of Health says that even in the lower categories of the so-called "dog" we will need to take measures that, according to Czech law, cannot be done otherwise than in an emergency state, then what are we discussing here? If anyone has one - and I said it last time - I got beat up by my colleague Stanjura for it, I suspect - if anyone has any other way of ensuring that the measures agreed by the experts outside of the emergency situation are met, then here with him. But no one has the idea. And there's only one idea we came up with, that is. The amendment of this crisis lawmaking, it is still in the commentary proceedings, over the summer it was torn down especially by journalists due to adversities, now finally, and I want to thank you for that, we have met with political party leaders or representatives of political parties and we have agreed to move the law. But until we change the Constitutional Security Act until we establish a new type of emergency or emergency, then all we have is an emergency. And all of us here, or not all of us, but a lot of speakers and commentators liken it to the war that we're at war with coronavirus. Not prolonging the emergency is the same as in the Battle of Britain to dissolve the Royal Air Force. It's the same thing. Because we don't have any other tools. There were a few hundred brave Germans among the attacking Němec back then. Well, all we have is the emergency and the measures that the Department of Health has because no one could think of anything better. And not prolonging the emergency means resigning from the fight. And let's just remember what happens if it comes to the words of some of those, not all of them, but some of those who at all costs refuse to vote for any extension. Well, it'll all pick up on the 21st. On the 21st, all measures will cease to apply under the crisis law, of course, part of it can be saved through the Public Health Act, but it probably wouldn't work there, which is why we declared the emergency situation. And from the point of view of the numbers available to us today, in terms of the infected or those inter-day increases, we're somewhere on the level of October 8th. So remember, everyone, what kind of debate was here on October 8th, as everyone warned that we were getting into trouble here, measures were being taken. We're not at the end of the story. We're not even at the beginning of that end. Maybe we're at the end of the line -- since I started with England, I'm gonna use Churchill. But it's just because we're at the end of the beginning that we can't afford to take on some highs and some loosening up. If I'm listening to the suggestions here that we should start opening this, opening that... Well, that's exactly what got us into this fall problem! And we're criticized that we overreacted, that we didn't leave the drapes for the summer. And half the House here, or part of the House, says it's already time to loosen it up. Well, it didn't. Five thousand infected a day, it's not a hit. That's just the problem. And there are states that are just tying up the economy or the company at numbers like this. And I'm so glad -- maybe it came later, but I am -- that we finally have the so-called. The table, we called it the Irish table at the beginning, now it's a PES, maybe it's an Irish wolfhound, but it's a table that says under what conditions these and those measures will improve or tighten up. It's based on a methodology that any citizen can count. It is therefore a way to proceed in the fight against the epidemic without any major political influences and only on the basis of exact data and the coefficients proposed by experts. What more is needed? Of course, we can start an autopsy here now, but as I listened to my colleague Stanjura, on the one hand, he told Karel Havlíček that he dared to say that something should change there, and at the same time he recommended that we redo the whole thing. Well, we can't have both. So from my point of view, it's most sensible to let go of the so-called. the dog works, and I think it works well, however, and I'm pointing out in the release euphoria again, there are four criteria and three are bordering, three are bordering between four and five, and only because we have a low reproductive number, and we can talk about why, so it's possible to move it. But here it's already being suggested that it shifts to three and two, and some who don't want to vote for an extension of the emergency state say we turn it all off and get back to normal. That's irresponsible! From my point of view, the emergency is just a symbol now. It's a symbol to which a lot of people are defined. People write to me - I don't want an emergency, I don't want an emergency. But the emergency situation itself doesn't do anything to anyone. What's doing something to someone that's restricting someone is the government's emergency measures. And they're based on expert recommendations. And unfortunately it's hard, I know we're tired, we're all tired, our citizens are tired, we're tired of those who are in the front line, de facto the whole company is tired. But if we want to get out of this problem, we can't in the first period from my point of view - because I've always said it openly, I wasn't the one who promised the mountains with the hounds here - but we're in some first period of the fall fight, and the arrangements will continue after Christmas and they'll continue at the beginning of the year until we just beat the virus like I said at the beginning. That needs to be made clear. And if we need an emergency or we don't need it, it will simply be due to the current state of law and the measures proposed by the Ministry of Health. And I just don't think we should repeat the mistake that was being blamed on the government, so make the mistake now in the House and the dog start writing here. That we would do a symposium here and suggest something to the ODS, suggest something to the SPD and write down a dog. It can't work. It can't work. I'm not defending myself from having any professional debate on the Health Committee, the Security Committee, that's all right, but please let's not substitute experts and let's not try to write it for them. So from my point of view, there's no alternative at this stage other than prolonging the emergency situation. And we all know that. Even those who say they're not gonna vote for it, even if they break them in a bike, and they can only afford to say it because they know someone's voting for them. And when I read some of those right-wing comments that said, well, yeah, they're voting with the communists again... Yeah, well, we have to vote with somebody. And it's not entirely fair to sit here, saying strong words about the fact that the emergency situation never, but quietly hope the communists vote for it, because otherwise it would be a mess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u76	Now with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Health Blatný. I have Mrs Hyťhová's factual comment here, but I will delete it, because I point out again that according to Section 109 of the letter. (m) factual remarks shall not be used in such proceedings. So, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to delay, I just want to respond because I appreciate your questions. In general. Students are called by the county, and therefore it is the region that has to pay them for the job. Students who have contracts with hospitals get paid from hospitals, which is if they're the founder of the state, so from the Ministry of Health, if it's someone else, it's someone else. Mr Klaus has called here for large data. Please, the big data just isn't there yet. They're not anywhere in the world because it's the first time and because it's a thing that's going very fast. I'm a doctor, a college educator. I would be the first to wish we had a randomized controlled study on how to proceed with the covid, strictly sticking to it. Anyone who deals with clinical studies and such, you know that it takes several years to prepare such a study, then it takes some time to do it and then it can be evaluated for several years. So if we have time to wait five years, we might as well have a randomized study. Sometimes we'll definitely have it, and then we'll re-evaluate whether we did the right thing or not. But now we don't have this data and calling after them is not responsible, because they just aren't available. As for what will happen in 30 days. To tell you what's gonna happen in 30 days, I'm just not gonna tell you because I don't know. And I'm telling you in advance, I really don't know, just like we didn't know what was going to happen today 30 days ago. So we're trying to do as best we can, as best we can, as the information we have allows us to do, and we can't predict 30 days in advance. We are able to predict very generally, we are doing this, our models are going to develop quite, I think, well hit, but I'm not able to tell you if there will be another emergency in 30 days or not. From my heart, I wish he wasn't. I can't promise you that. I've commented on the differences between business three times, so I'm not going to do that for the fourth time, and I believe everyone can see that we're really going through this system. Everyone. And all the business will be open from the third degree, and in that case, all the discrimination will fall. If we had done this sooner, we would have denied what we wanted, thus restricting mobility. I have also commented on the opinion of Minister Havlíček. And please, let's not say the government isn't arguing or he can't make a deal. The Minister has said something that the media has put into life, but the decision will be up to the government, and I believe that we will agree very well there and that the government will be united in this. This is not a mess, please. It's been said here several times. On the contrary, I think that this is a state in which the order has now entered, and the word confusion does not really seem appropriate to me here. As far as churches are concerned, I have commented on this several times. So our goal is to correct this as soon as possible. It was a mistake that fell out, and, of course, no one would let more people in the church than at the service. And as far as curfew is concerned, it is a restriction to limit nightlife. Let us be very clear about this, because nightlife, which is connected with alcohol consumption and other entertainment, simply reduces inhibitions in all of us. That's right, and that's the goal of curfew at night. And so many times quoted problem that shops are open for as long as curfew. I'll tell you another analogy. Those of you or a number of us go to work for, like, seven o'clock. And if I am an employer whose employees go to work at seven o'clock, I will not order all employees to order an alarm clock for six o'clock because they are legal and know when they have to get up to be at work at seven o'clock, and just as when I close the shops at nine o'clock and I have an order at nine o'clock, each of us is right enough to know when to leave the store to be home at nine o'clock. That seems like a question that's not even worth discussing. And as far as vaccines are concerned, it's not true that we don't know how we're gonna do it. The national vaccination strategy is prepared, it is opposed, and everyone who has something to say about it will comment on it. And once again, I'm going to turn against the fact that we're being unreasonable. I have a different opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Mr Koten is now signed in, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u79	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, emergency situation. It's an assessment of the emergency situation that happens here from the mouth of colleagues, whether yes or not. I get dozens of e-mails a day: end the emergency at last. As far as citizens of the Czech Republic are concerned, unfortunately, they are confused because the individual measures that are being implemented during this month, they really do not know what to think about it anymore from the point of view of logic, because on the one hand, large hypermarkets with food were opened, which of course also lead other product range, and on the other hand, it is not possible to sell some other product range in a small shop, because the government simply closed it. Of course, the most affected industries are food and food services. Restaurants are closed. Some have dealt with it by releasing lunches through a window into some plastic disposable packaging. I think that greenery and Greta must be appalled because the amount of disposable packaging that is being consumed now in the Czech Republic has not been consumed here in decades before. Of course, a huge number of companies and suppliers are connected to the business, i.e. catering and restaurants, who supply either beer or other food, and if the restaurants don't work, the breweries will soon be ruined, because of course the spin that would be through the classic barrels is almost zero. We're really gonna have to deal with a lot of problems here. It will be insolvency in families where they are unable to pay their claims now, they are unable to pay various mortgages, car payments, and certainly not even the usual livelihood. Unfortunately, many of the measures that are in place are introduced in the style of one Czech fairy tale, where the king is running around saying: I withdraw what I have called off, and I promise what I have promised. Unfortunately, the disillusionment of people and the anger at these measures are quite understandable because it destroys their business, their jobs and their livelihood. We can invent a lot of covidos here, COVID I, COVID II, COVID III, COVID IV, but we also have to realize that all these compensation bonuses are not for everyone, and on the other hand, someone will have to pay for it in the finals. In fact, by preventing the children from going to school, we also had another problem because a lot of parents had to stay home with the children, especially the smaller ones, and thus we extended them in a huge way such a holiday, such a home-schooling. It's safe to say that now that at least the first, second years have opened up, at least the parents who can finally go back to work and aren't at 60 percent, but it's still not the same. And I don't know if the Ministry of Health has dealt with Mr. Jiří Beran's method, a well-known Czech immunologist who uses a preparation called Isoprinosine to treat covid, which thus stimulates the individual's immunity in some way. [[15.40 hours]] I'm here in the spring or spring, more early in the summer and basically during September, intersecting the Prime Minister about some antivirals and some support devices that can somehow stimulate the immune system at the beginning of the disease, so that the person doesn't get into a difficult state, that is, ICU, the respirator, and so on. I said it would be very good for the Czech Republic to have its pharmaceutical company to produce these preparations. Unfortunately, that did not happen, although there was quite enough time for the government to decide at least something, and we are now getting to the situation that we do not have Isoprinosine here as such, because a foreign supplier will simply not supply it here. He just doesn't give it to us. So some doctors from Bulovka get in the car - imagine the bizarre situation. In order to treat patients, they go to Bratislava and buy it, and then serve it here on Bulovka to patients. Well, we've done it! I am really calling on the government here to actually consider these alternative methods of treatment and to do something in the pharmaceutical safety of the Czech Republic. Because if we're dependent on importing preparations from abroad, and a foreign supplier, like the vaccine in the past, doesn't deliver to us on TB, we're actually kind of naked in thorns. What else can I say? I think that these measures should therefore be clear so that people understand and know what to prepare for. Because the first time the government said that around October 28th, the kids would actually only extend a long weekend and then the schools would open up. Then it's extended again, extended again, and it's precisely the delay of when something opens up, so I think that people are the most concerned about the uncertainty because they can't plan their lives, they can't plan anything, and when the state prevents them from doing business, they're basically taking it to the firm, in some secondary insolvency. So I ask the government once again to consider all options, including preventive measures. I haven't noticed anywhere that anyone from the Department of Health or that they would issue any recommendations on what food supplements or vitamins to take to make a person more resistant to infections. So I would also like that, if the enlightenment were to take place in this spirit. Thank you again for your attention and I hope that in some way the government will hear some comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. And now Vice-President Fiala has applied with priority rights, then Mr Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will respond to the speech of the Ministers of Hamáček and Blatný. I would probably be able to make a factual point, but I respect, of course, that factual remarks are not under the Rules of Procedure today. I would perhaps just tell Minister Hamáček, or remind him, if he is somewhat complaining about how we, on the right hand side of this hall, are reluctant to support the emergency situation and ask ourselves different conditions and questions, and that he has to do it with the communists, so I would remind him that no government in our modern democratic history has had a government in the last 30 years as friendly a opposition as this government in the spring of this year. And you can look, remember what you've already forgotten, and I think people haven't forgotten it, like in the log, how we supported the government's measures, how we supported the emergency requests at the time, how we supported all the shortened procedures to help people quickly, so that these measures can be taken. But I think you should ask yourself a question instead of some lamentations, why isn't it now? Why we ask the government why we lay down the conditions, why we want the government to explain its actions, to follow the criteria and plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not at the beginning of the pandemic, we live with COVID-19 for at least ten months, and there is a legitimate requirement that the government be prepared to have clear criteria so that it has a plan to have options of procedure and to explain them to the public. And don't be mad at me, it's not happening. I very much appreciate the fact that Minister Blatný has been here all this time, discussing, competently responding. It wasn't always like that. But, Minister, I cannot agree that what the government is doing is understandable and clear. It is not for us Members, for the opposition, for the governments and, above all, for the public. Now look into the news about the course of today. So I see a big headline on one of the most read servers - What's a PES for? What's a PES for? The schools open according to another key. And I don't think this is about the opposition or what you're going to say here in the House, we're going to say. This is about the public. This is about the public, which is not clear to many of these measures. We've been there before, there was a traffic light, said, measures will be taken by traffic light. And then all of a sudden, the light was white in the whole republic or whatever, I don't remember the color anymore, and it started taking measures without any reason. Because the light just didn't work well. So the traffic light went off, and we got a PES. And now, again, there are measures that are being taken in the system that you have prepared, as if they are not, or otherwise. So what are people supposed to think about it? How are people supposed to believe that? The biggest problem of all is that, and everyone will probably confirm that: every measure that people take and voluntarily follow because they feel reasonable that they believe in it is much more effective than when they do it by force and simply by violence they respect some bans and orders. And we would all like to make people voluntarily behave disciplinedly, responsibly, so that they also believe in the measures that are necessary to take and of which we and many support. But that's not the case. And if the government goes on as it goes on, people won't get that trust. And if we're performing here with the fact that PES isn't quite well written, that there are some things missing, that there are things that are illogical, that there are things that need to be adjusted, and that there are levels that need to be added to it, it's a serious debate, and I think the government, a sensible government, would listen to the opposition. Otherwise, no one will understand what the government is doing and what the government is doing. If even the media comes with a headline, so what's the point of this PES if no one follows it?, then that's just a bad result. But it's not a bad result of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen. It's a bad government result, so do something about it. We are ready to discuss this with you, we are ready to help you improve these measures, we are ready to convince the public that many of these measures are reasonable, but it cannot be done in this way. You can't keep stepping on our heads, complaining that we're asking questions or wanting something or disagreeing with something, but you should have a reasonable dialogue with us. Thank you to those members of the government who are conducting this reasonable dialogue, but I would expect from the Prime Minister and others as well. that they will lead him towards all of us dealing with the pandemic so that we can really pull together in some ways. We call for this repeatedly. We did not see it coming from the government, but it is not a pity for our opposition, it is simply a pity for the public, it is simply disadvantageous for the Czech Republic and we should change the situation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. And now Mr Kaňkovský in the debate, then Mr Martínek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u83	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. A lot has already been said here today about the emergency situation, how the Czech Republic deals with the pandemic COVID-19. It doesn't even make me react to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček's performance yet. Of course, I understand his position, he's the head of the Ministry of the Interior, he's a prominent representative of the government party, but I must say I'm a little surprised by his appearance. We here in the spring as the opposition - President Fiala has already said it here - have been very cooperative with the government as the opposition, we have joined the Central Crisis Staff, we have worked very closely in committees and the House plenary, and we have tried to work very intensively with the government in all reasonable steps that could alleviate the first wave of pandemics that were far less serious than the other. And I have to say that the words of Mr. Vice Prime Minister have disappointed me in this regard, because he is now referring to the fact that we here want to discuss the length of the emergency situation, and yet, in addition to some groups, it has not been said that we do not want to support the emergency situation at any cost, but we want to know what will happen next. Because the way it looks at this point, the government wants to extend the emergency until December 20th of this year. Minister Blatný has justified this, and I must say that I consider a number of his arguments to be correct, but it has not been said here what will happen next. The anti-epidemiological system that Minister Blatný introduced and for which I also want to thank him for myself, because it is the first systematic step in this area, does not count on neither (?) at that stage 1, the emergency situation shall be lifted. That means, don't blame us as politicians who here don't represent me as Vít Kaňkovský or me as only KDU-ČSL, but us as politicians who represent voters who are confused and rightly ask what will happen next, what will happen next in those months, because we all know that the COVID-19 epidemic will not end on December 20th. If a miracle doesn't happen -- and everyone who does medicine, we know that the miracle most likely won't happen -- we'll be fighting pandemics here at least until the spring months, April, May before it starts to vaccinate. And we don't know how it's going to go down, how many vaccines it's going to be, what the public's response to vaccinations is going to be. That means we don't really have a prediction of what it's going to look like. This means that we would like to know the government's position on how it is prepared to continue in those months and whether it will still rely on emergency conditions or whether it is really ready to take these measures within the framework of a change in crisis legislation. So much for an introduction. I am somewhat sorry for the words of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, because it was not, for example, a KDU-ČSL that wanted to loosen up. We never hit the bench here and said, "Let's lighten up." That wasn't our thing. On the contrary, we have called on the government to loosen up logical steps and to keep those measures in correlation in the individual areas, so that we do not release hobbies and the like and some important areas are closed first. So much for an introduction. It has already been said several times today that the primary task of all of us is to protect the risk groups of the population. I'm sure we all agree with that, and that's what we need to do in the next few months. But let's say how we want to do this, because, as I've already indicated, can you imagine that we'll keep all social services facilities closed for four to five more months without any possibility of visitors? Can we really imagine that? Minister Blatný here mentioned non-covoid health care. That's another very critical area that we have to deal with. Everyone understands that at the time of the exponential onset of the second wave of pandemic, we had to reduce planned care in hospitals. Everyone understands that. But as early as spring, we experienced some effects of delayed subacute performances. And it doesn't just involve treatment, but in many cases it also involves delayed diagnostics. That is, that is my question to you, Minister, how will we proceed in the coming weeks and months, when I firmly believe that those capacities in hospitals will be released, practically. And here I would like to know the specific plan of the Ministry of Health, how, if the epidemiological situation is more favourable, we will unwind the so-called non-covoid care, that is to say, care for other important diagnoses, patients with diseases of oncological, nervous, vascular and others. How you're prepared to do that, if you're dealing with the county, how we're going to release the capacity. Because even according to a number of experts, it seems that we should try in those weeks when the wave will be somewhat lower, in some hospitals to carry out the so-called non-covoid care and only some hospitals then centralize for the covido care. It needs to be discussed with the regions, but it would definitely be more effective and safer in the spring months, because if we continue to mix covido and non-covoid patients in those smaller hospitals, we won't get very far in the planned medicine. So that's my question and possibly my subject for further discussion, perhaps more likely on the health committee. Some of the illogicalities that we see in the so-called PES system have been mentioned here, and that is not some gluttonous criticism of you, Minister. I understand you've discussed this with the experts. I understand that the first one may not be a complete success. But if you mentioned these services and funerals here, this is a very sensitive matter and it will only be very good if you present concrete measures as you want to do it. I would urge here to have a correlation with other areas of public life, that is, with sport, with culture, that these areas do not reproach each other, too, because some other screaming into society, I think, does not belong, and it would be a shame if we supported it. This means that if 500 spectators can sit in a cultural hall at stage 2 at a concert, at a theatre performance, then in my opinion 500 sitting visitors in a similar space could sit in a spiritual or other. It is very sensitive, for example, at the funerals mentioned above. A colleague named Marian Jurečka mentioned it here. Really try explaining to a multiple family that they will not be able to participate as a whole family or friends, a funeral act. That's so incredibly painful for these people, I'm sure it's something that needs to be addressed. And then I'll mention the visits to the health and social services facilities. Once again, we all understand that this is a very sensitive area and that there is no way to succumb to any great pressure. But Christmas is coming, and for many seniors, the idea that even at Christmas holidays they won't be able to see their loved ones is truly unimaginable. This means, try to think about it - it is still a little over a month - whether it is also a system for those visitors to have a PCR test, visit to social services facilities at least to a limited extent, because otherwise it will be absolutely unimaginable pain for those people of particular senior age. So in conclusion let me - we appreciate as KDU-ČSL that the government has taken systematic steps in recent days and weeks. I would very much advocate the completion of the PES system precisely in terms of correlation between individual areas, which means that the same conditions are for small business, large shops, so that the same conditions are for gathering events such as cultural, sports, religious, so that people really gain some kind of lost confidence in government in terms of government communication with the public, so that that trust is restored. Because you might think that as a representative of the opposition, I am gloating, but I am not happy at all. If I only have a little free time, I'm spending it in the hospital. And it is very difficult to discuss with those relatives who are dying of a patient, whether on covid or not, at this time, and it doesn't matter whether I am an opposition member of the KDU-ČSL or whether I would be a government member of any other party. [[16.00 hours]] So from my side for KDU-ČSL it's an appeal. We are prepared to support the extension of the emergency at this time for two weeks, but this does not mean that we are not willing to discuss further afterwards. We just think that it is always necessary to revise after some time, to say yes, it is still necessary. No, it's not necessary. It's no big deal. We are open to further cooperation. And I firmly believe that this cooperation will take place very intensively, because the situation is likely to continue for a few months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. Mr Martínek is next in the debate, Mr Blažek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, limiting the number of customers per area is acceptable only if retail shops are opened under the same conditions. People will melt and stop buying shoes in Lidl. End discrimination against Czech shops and disruption of the business environment in favour of multinational corporations. This is what I said on Tuesday on my Twitter and Facebook, and I am glad that other politicians are now mentioning this. We have a period of pre-Christmas shopping, a crucial period for all Czech traders. Instead of looking for solutions to save these basics of the Czech economy and TVs, there are examples of people going shopping abroad. The opening of retail trade certainly has epidemiological risks, on the other hand, reducing other risks. For example, reducing the spread of COVID-19 through the dilution of the number of customers in supermarkets, where people move freely and can easily all clump together in one part of the store, or reduce the risks forming queues in front of shops. I am able to consider extending the emergency by two weeks if the Czech retail trade is saved in the pre-Christmas period and its discrimination is put to an end. According to information from one network of clothing stores, in these months the traffic rate of shops is around 19 people per hour. The longer the opening is delayed, the more risk of a larger cluster of shoppers and the start of the third wave. Therefore, it seems to me that it is beneficial not only from an epidemiological point of view but also from an economic point of view to resolve discrimination against Czech trades, when it is necessary to save the Czech economy from its collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. And please Mr Blažek, who is next in the debate, and then Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u87	Hello, thank you for your word. Well, I would probably start by saying that when I came to the House today, I was basically determined not to support any extension of the emergency situation, which, unfortunately, would have been freely translated for the public, meant how it is said in a very simple way that we are actually in favour of making everything free immediately. And I think this - I must commend that Minister Hamáček, he always rightly says that emergency is only a legal framework for creating something else. But now I have to fill it in. This legal framework means that if fundamental rights and freedoms are limited in this state, Parliament does it in a normal regime, that is, it takes longer and it is done directly by representatives of the people and they do it in a certain way. The state of emergency means that absolute power is essentially passed on to the government for a certain period of time. Well, since I've been watching the government lately, and that's why I've been thinking today that I'm not gonna be at all for an extension, I'm gonna use it to change a classic statement that, I think, said Lord Acton, and that's -- it's too corrupt. Well, I've been getting the impression that he's been getting too silly lately. Some of the government's measures just seem to me, and I am thinking, in particular, of the 15 meters, like the decision of someone who can only accept it because they just don't feel any restrictions at all. Even those professional decisions can be explained by some common sense. Why fifteen or fourteen or sixteen simply cannot be explained by common sense. And the way in which, and how, the government is presented to the public, as soon as it promises to change, it shows that it does not actually have a completely rational core. And I'm already beginning to suspect - and I'm not saying that the government is doing this for some evil reason - but that the population is becoming an experiment. We'll try out what's possible and whether it works or doesn't work. The covid disease, and I don't have to be a doctor for that, so it's quite obvious that we don't know everything, and maybe we don't know much. It is also quite clear - and here I will follow up with Minister Hamáček with his war examples, or respectively. with the comparison. Yes, sometimes they say it's a war with covid. However, this similitude largely ends with the war because war is a terrible thing, but it has one advantage. Someone wins there, somebody loses. He was talking about World War II, which means he was conquering Berlin, the war ended, he made some deals and it was over. When I was listening to Minister Hamáček, he was suddenly talking about Christmas, and I think it's still in January. Or we're starting to talk about some sort of permanent emergency. And we need to learn and talk about it both with the government and with experts not only in the field of health, but that is a wider debate on how to live on with the covid. We can't turn everything off since February, 'cause there's gonna be another wave in March. Or God forbid, in August, thanks - and now I'm going to blame the media - for the media's madness that there's going to be another disease, everyone gets scared and everything closes again. But that's just not what we're talking about, and the government's basically not dealing with it. I don't blame the government for not understanding it, if they're supposed to be drapes, they're not supposed to be drapes. I'm begging you to stay out of this. But what I want to say, and that's also a comparison to the war. Just as the generals' governments didn't exist anywhere during the war, they didn't even come into existence in Nazi Germany, and that was an ultra-brutal state, neither did here, even here, there has to be a beautiful distinction that they are medical experts, and then there's the government. The government has a much wider responsibility, much wider tasks. And we are getting into a world where all sectors are beginning to control some health criteria, which, on the one hand, is explainable, but at the same time, it is wrong. That state has to work in some normal way. And I've already determined the "experts, we'll do it," and I don't accept them. Yes, at some point, of course I do. But the government is here to take a broad responsibility and see this thing in a much bigger horizon than purely health criteria. In the end, I will support the compromise proposal adopted by our club from my point of view, which means extending the emergency situation, which means authorising the government to absolute power, because it is limited at that time only by deciding the courts. I think it's enough for the government to know that it's not all-powerful. For her to know, and we just have to find out for the time here that she has to show up at shorter intervals and explain what happened and what she's going to do next. But I think that a longer period of time is harmful to the government itself, because some ideas, and now I'm going back to the quote that I mentioned, it really seems to me that the government is getting a little silly from that absolute power. And I'll be fair, maybe every government would be stupid. Please don't take it personally. That's not personal right now. That's where the framework is. And I think that we need to have some of those frameworks given by the House, just that they have to tell us here to just be given, and maybe it's for the benefit of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. Next is Mr Ferjenčík, Mrs Aulická will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, for the Pirates' club, will be returning for us for the last time to the thing that we really consider essential, and that is the enormous injustice between the state's approach to large hypermarkets and those small stores. We simply disagree with the fact that the entire retail business, with the exception of certain restrictions on goods of some basic product range, which is really necessary, so with the exception of all of them are closed and now they are forced to observe how all those Christmas purchases and preparations for the new season take place in those big chains within the so-called. additional sales to that range of foods. This is such a huge injustice that it is impossible to ignore it. And we were expecting that when the conditions for selling in the shops were tightened, and we agree that there is some limit in the number of customers per square metre, so that in such a situation again, on the other hand, it will be possible to buy in the small shops, because we are trying to distract those people to the greatest extent possible, and that all the other junk is closed and maybe the season is actually going on, so they can't be put off forever, so the people in the hypermarkets are clumping together again. [[16.10 hours]] And really, this is just a terrible injustice. So if the government says it's too dangerous to open up the business, then at least we need to do some massive compensation scheme for the business that is now just watching the competition take over the market. There's another thing that's happening. One thing is hypermarkets and the other thing is internet stores. So those who do not have the opportunity to become a dispensary or do not have the type of customers who would buy from them within an e-shop will become sharp again, and there is a huge change in the entire market, a huge shift to online shopping. Honestly, if you've got an electro that's being ordered over the Internet or selling goods for the rules that the customer just has to wait at the counter, but for God's sake, he can order it there, it doesn't matter if he ordered it over the Internet, or if he said on the counter that he needed a specific thing, it's terribly illogical at the moment, and it's totally unfair. And for us, this is really something that needs to be resolved, either by relaxing or by getting some dignified compensation or some combination of these approaches. We don't call for any... we agree that there are strict restrictions, but it is not possible that the same goods large shops with larger concentrations of people can sell, and the smallest ones have been kept closed. For this reason, because we are aware that it is not happy that the emergency situation should end in an orderly fashion and say suddenly and suddenly everything has ceased to apply because we agree with the overwhelming majority of the measures under the PES system, so we propose an extension of the emergency situation until Tuesday, 24 November 2020. I believe that this is a long enough time to address this fundamental issue of discrimination against the Czech retail sector. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur to submit a proposal if she is not yet. Now, Mrs Aulická, Mr Skopeček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be short because my previous speakers, whether from my club or from other parties, are actually asking questions and some of the things that I don't want to say in the field, but that we might say are unreasonable, so they said here. Anyway, I may have even disturbed a colleague from the ODS here today in his performance, so I apologize for that, but I tried to solve one example of this a little bit of confusion in the practice with Minister Plaga, and I have to say that he promised me that he would actually have to respond to this situation in his performance, and unfortunately that did not happen, so I would rather appeal this way. We in Most, for example, have arrangements when we enter or distribute children at kindergartens, so that parents and children do not accumulate in those small dressing rooms, because, of course, we may perceive that the kindergartens do not have large rooms where the 15 m2 would actually be kept per person by now, so children are actually passed on in front of the kindergarten. This means that there is an educator standing outside, and parents are just bringing the child in and taking them over, with other teachers doing, of course, the changing and taking to the appropriate classroom with the children. I must say that on the basis of PES measures in the field of education, however, it is said that the kindergarten is also allowed to enter the dressing room. And at this point, we are in a situation where, of course, some parents require access to a kindergarten and their child's escort under this measure, but, at the same time, kindergartens say, but we have such a measure. And I think that these matters, and Minister Plaga was telling me, so we're going to appeal to parents to follow the measure that is given by the self-government, virtually. Announced by kindergarten. That's exactly the thing where we say to each other and what's valid and when your parents are supposed to demand "their rights" and when it's already across the border, that more or less who's right, what can anyone do, etc., and I think that's really just one part that's being unreasonablely looking at right now, it's face-to-face in the whole practice. The fact that we've been talking about, like, our little business providers can't really sell today is that, unfortunately, we have a lot of citizens who can't even afford some quality shoes in some stores and can't even buy on the Internet, virtually. they need, or until now they have bought shoes from other traders, where prices were significantly cheaper or more accessible, and now they are dependent only on large hypermarkets, supermarkets where it is allowed, so I think that really at the moment it is a bad setting, no matter what, it has been said here that profits are going quite elsewhere, and not in the pocket within the Czech Republic. So I wanted to say really this example, I didn't want to be long, and it seems to me that there are things that we should take into account in general and tell citizens how they actually face and what the enforcement of these measures is, according to the so-called dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u92	Thank you, and now Mr Skopeček, Mr Juránek will prepare himself and after him the Minister has signed up for his speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u93	Thank you very much. There's been a lot of things going on here today, a lot of arguments. I'll make some notes. I will not support the emergency situation at the government's request for 30 days. I was prepared not to support any day, but I will lean towards some compromise that arises. This is due to the fact that I have not seen in recent weeks that the government has been using emergency conditions for rational, adequate restrictions and measures. I consider the measures taken to be too radical. I don't like the fact that we've actually been living with a covid for the tenth month, and there's still a government with a flat surface, like it's not clear that there are different risk groups to which we should simply approach differently, and those restrictions should match their restrictions. Of course, at the beginning of the pandemic, I understood that we were all surprised, terrified, and that there was nothing left for the government to do but impose restrictions on citizens and measures on citizens. But if we live with cod for the tenth month, we should understand that for some groups, this disease, which I do not underestimate or underestimate, is more risky for some groups, for some less. It is also illusionary to think that it is possible to live with the economy off or off without having long-term effects on society, on the economy, but also on the health system. After all, the health system depends on how the economy is doing or not, and it cannot separate society's prosperity, standard of living in future years, but also the possibilities of financial health from how the economy works today and how it is able or unable to generate taxes that we distribute through the public budget and in the health system. In short, some measures that I do not consider to be meaningful and effective do not seem adequate to me. For example, it's the curfew after 9:00 p.m. Does anyone really think that this is a restriction that will somehow dramatically improve the situation in the Czech Republic, especially when everything is closed after 21st hour and people have nowhere to go? After all, there is a huge symbolic aspect of the restrictions on freedom that the Czech Republic has not experienced in the long term, and it resembles a state of war. And while covid is a serious disease, I reject the war rhetoric that contributed to the creation of hysteria in the Czech Republic, when there was talk of freezers on the streets, when there was talk of stadiums for the dead. I consider it hysterical, but also irresponsible to those groups of people who are simply more sensitive. It doesn't seem normal for us to live in a world where we can shop in large supermarkets, while small merchants often offer the same goods must be closed for a month, the second time in the second wave, when we have dramatically damaged them in the first wave. It is not normal for us to reduce the competitiveness of these small businesses, small shops, small shops and artificially increase the number of customers to large supermarkets and large companies. [[16.20 hours]] Christmas is coming, I think people want to slowly return to normal situations, they have to see the light at the end of the tunnel, they have to breathe again, with those coming vánoce twice as much. Even those shop owners, shops, but also service operators simply need to give the green light before Christmas, so that at least some of the losses they record, so that during Christmas, when they are of course top sales, we can return to them at least some of the last weeks when they had to be closed. So I would ask that immediately or at high speed, all small stores, all small businessmen, be reopened, even if I understand that they must or will have to comply with some hygiene or regime measures. I understand that very well, but I don't see the only reason why people should only go to supermarkets, standing there long queues that the government has secured with another senseless decision, when it regulates the number of customers, virtually. one customer per 15 square meters. Why isn't it 14, 12, 10? We could have this discussion. I also find it crazy where hysteria came in terms of recommendations for funeral services, for example, which have to be buried in two bags not dressed dead; funerals with only 15 participants. It almost feels like some extremist epidemiologists are about to start throwing funerals online. So, please, let's take our wits into our hands! Surely there is no time for us to underestimate the disease in any way, but there is no reason to continue to overestimate it and spread hysteria and scare people and to realize the same general restrictions that prove that they can't last forever. I am convinced that the Covid from the Czech Republic will not disappear, that even after this wave leaves, more waves may come. And I can't imagine that at every moment like this, we'll close the economy, we'll close the schools, we'll live in isolation. It's a huge intervention in social relations, it's a huge intervention in the education of a whole generation of children. It is a huge intervention in family relationships, which, even in this sense, when people are forced to be isolated, they also get hit. Which is not good for society as a whole. Since I am convinced that the government is applying draconian and inadequate measures and restrictions, I am not willing to vote for a 30-day extension of the situation, and I am asking the government to take some sense into the hand and start applying the measure not across the board, but in a really meaningful way, depending on how risk groups relate, and to really start to relax and give people a light at the end of the tunnel so that they can take a breath and traders can erase at least part of the loss during the upcoming Christmas season. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. And now, Mr. Juránek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister - and now I do not know exactly what to call it - almost the winning rapporteur, and Madam Secretary, let me not forget you too, and colleagues and colleagues. I did not come first to criticize, I would very much like to bring a certain positive to this debate. First of all, I want to thank the Minister for allowing me to say, systemicly, not that I am afraid of the disease, but that I have respect for it. Thank you very much for that word of respect, because I don't think we should be afraid of the disease, but we should have respect for it. And the Minister's coming and using that word makes it possible for me to talk about wanting to have respect for this illness and to put it in the system. Because I'm going to talk now, we supported the past situation within the KDU-ČSL, and now we're ready to support it to some extent too. And then I want to say specifically how this thing could function in a system way. The reason I want to talk about it is because I want to share my experience with everyone from the county, from when the regions started. It is not only my experience, it is the experience of the thirteen, actually with the mayor of the capital city of Prague 14 people who suddenly found themselves in a situation in 2000 that they began to solve crisis problems in regions that were not solved before them. And they came one by one. These are not just floods that have come, this is how we should have dealt with environmental accidents, how we should have dealt with major traffic accidents and how we should have dealt with slides and other issues. And we learned it. Therefore, I would say that the first congregation in the first four years of the region from 2000 to 2004 was in fact a workshop that dealt with everything that came. By the way, it was health-related stuff. And it was learning who he could work with and how he could put it together. And we solved a lot of things at the level of the region, but it turned out, and not only in the flood, but also in a number of others, that we had to deal with them in a broader context. And in the moment, here I would say that it was true here, as soon as it was about two regions, we already needed the Minister of the Interior to do it first, but it was also about the vet, it was also about hygiene. That means we had to touch it gradually and we had to try to solve these things. Let me get this straight, we didn't often know how and we tried things. Certainly at that time the Internet networks did not work as they do now, and certainly if they worked, so many of our actions in individual regions would be very critical. Coincidentally, together with the Ústí Region, the South Moravian Region has such a disadvantage, because there for example. water drains from the territory of the Czech Republic and this causes many such events, so these events happened to me in eight years. 72 It's a huge number. And it was also due to the fact that some things were not dealt with systemically, which means that by now, no captain has to count on taking so many measures in eight years, when he's there, if you take half, so that 36 would do them in four years. And what I'm saying here is that they've been developing and passing on experience a little bit faster systemically, actually, how to respond to the crisis law. Because we were getting away from the crisis law, for us it was a reading room, we had to learn it. We need to know, I took the liberty of knowing all the changes that were incorporated there. And since it was my life, now I want to hand it over. [[16.30 hours]] I want to say to everyone that quite logically, logically, when a new problem comes, and this problem is new and new throughout the world, so clearly, measures must also come up, which will be estimated at that moment on the basis of current knowledge, and only the future will show if these measures were correct. That means, here I would like to put it back in that form, that when we're dealing with a problem that hasn't been solved before us, we have to look for new ways and we don't know if they're right. And I want to point out here that one thing we did right at the beginning, for many reasons. And I'll put it in the context of this day. That's where it turned out - I don't know who figured it out, but he would have deserved the Nobelův cena in my opinion - that we started sewing drapes. That's what the International Health Organization said back then, it's no use, it doesn't exist. We already have numbers today, and I thank you for the numbers, and the numbers say they learned it from us all over the world. And I'll tell you what I see the great advantage of these robes. We came up with an idea that people took because something strange came up, we didn't know, we were scared, it wasn't the respect yet. It was the fear of the unknown, of the effect on us and we don't know how and we don't even know how it's gonna turn out yet. And all of a sudden, we had a gun. You know, we were bare-handed. We didn't know what to do. But somebody said if you put on a drape, it'll help. And it helped mentally in the first place. That was the first thing. And the second thing, at that time also based on this regulation and the fact that people took it actively, most people, not the number that is right now, most people just said, yeah, it's the gun, and some tolerated it, and of course from the start there were some who murmured against it. But it was a weapon, it was a defense, it was a chance. But this is actually how all these measures are gradually recognized as correct or less correct, they have some sort of flaw. And I don't want to focus on that. I want to thank you for the dog. I'm humanizing it. I don't want to say what it means, but the PES is giving me this kind of domestic trust. I'm a woodsman, I had a dog, and I'm very happy to say, that's just a friend. It's just something that should help us with all the problems that are ahead of us right now. And, of course, it is described in some way, there have been a number of comments, and I have no comment on these internal matters, because they have been spoken here, and the Minister has already made it clear that he will accept certain things, and I firmly believe that he will accept them. However, there is one crucial thing missing in the system, and I want to talk about it. There's no emergency exit in that system. That's the problem with this system. I'm not even saying if it's meant to be, if we're going to keep those five degrees and it's going to be, like, a third or a fourth state, but it needs to be added to that system. I don't know if it's gonna take another degree, I don't want to advise, because there are many variations. But systemically, I want us to really now -- and that's my request -- that's not a complaint, nothing -- just so we know that under certain circumstances the emergency is over. The moment we know this systemically, we'll know it once and for all. We'll be more specific. We're going to specify the time, but it really means that if I say now that maybe we're going to have this emergency situation in the third degree, then we're going to know in the future, if it's nothing, we're going to start from the fact that we've just overcome it and we're not working here for a year now and we're not going to be in danger of covid, so the moment when this or some other virus that's going to be this dangerous, we're going to get into that third degree situation, and the government is going to know, oh, that's a good time, here we can consider declaring an emergency situation because it's going to correspond to the experiences that we're looking at and we just want to clarify them into the future. Because that's when we're gonna get to this point in the system, so we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the point where we're gonna get to the And now I'm going to say that there are different possibilities in that emergency state. There is also the possibility that the government will end this emergency by itself, because it will find that it no longer needs that emergency. And if this point were here, there's no problem for me, no problem approving 30 days today. Because I would know that at the moment that we'll be enough for the next two weeks, which no one knows if it's enough, or if it's not enough, that we'll be able to get to a border that we can call "we don't need the emergency anymore, we'll figure it out by other means," so at this point, we'll get into a situation where we can systemicly say yes, we know the conditions under which the emergency will end. And there's another big advantage in the system for the future. The advantage is that we're actually going to set up an emergency situation only when it's necessary. And once again, there's no question of Parliament now to say those thirty days because this point isn't here. That means, I'm really recommending 14 or 15 days here, I haven't exactly noticed how many days it's been, what the pirát have proposed for the last time, how many days it's been. It's more about finding a date like this that we're going to systematically continue to do something that's now called a seven-day stabilization that we can only say after seven days that something has changed. That means, when eight days fell here, it's literally not enough, which means it should be fourteen, fifteen days, probably fifteen days, that it would be the ideal condition to see what it's doing right now. And I'm saying again, if there was a clear point that would say yes, maybe after three weeks, we'll find out that it's working already, so we'll say, now you can. But of course there are circumstances of different things here, but now I say, they will always be some important days, more or less yes, we have Easter that we spent with covid, now it's Christmas, which we will probably spend with covid, but that can be taken into account and we don't have to have everything written down. And I'm saying one more thing again, because of the operation, we can't think that we're going to do a hundred percent list of what's supposed to be or have to do, but to make sure there's a clear point that allows us to say, "We're going to end the emergency." That is, I am really giving it to the Minister, and I would say, if there was a fellow Hamáček here, I would also tell my colleague Hamáček, and I would tell the Prime Minister. And I'm putting it as a subject that could connect us, because we could have a certain agreement on this thing. And working in this spirit is more important from my point of view than completing the individualities that can be understood and some inconsistencies that have occurred there. I firmly believe that the Minister or his team will propose to be adjusted. So I'm just gonna go back to one more thing. If we have such a clear point, we will be more clear to the people. And I take the clarity for all of us, because right now, at this point, we decide most of this emergency situation in this Chamber of Deputies, and I take it regardless of whether this or any other amendment passes, I take it that's our decision. And all I'm asking is that we take this discussion here, that it was supposed to be inspiring in the first place, and I want to make a contribution to that inspiring, and that it should be stimulating to move forward together, and now I'm going to say in a systemic way that is understandable to people, and there are more people who will then be willing to rethink their system on the basis of respect for the covid and perhaps start wearing a mask for others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. Now the Minister has asked for a performance with priority rights to respond to previous performances, so now there's room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, briefly. As far as Professor Beran is concerned, I appreciate his experience. With regard to Isoprinosin, there is a relatively complex situation, it is not clear, even some studies report that people with immunosuppression have lower symptoms of covid disease, and on the contrary, immunopotence can lead to worsening of this condition. So there's definitely no unity of opinion between immunologists. The only thing you can recommend for sure is vitamin D, which doesn't hurt, but it's not even a miracle. But in our hypovitaminous population, it can help. There was a headline in the most read Internet portal "What is Blatný PES for?". The headline, if we click it, we will also find that the fact that there has been a change is not at the request or recommendation of the government, but at the request of an organisation that brings together school directors who have simply expressed themselves in the sense that they are unable to implement it at a given time, and therefore we have somehow tried to implement the regulation so that it can be implemented. The table, the assumption is, and it is from the beginning, should be valid around the end of the year, in the meantime, we will get enough information to upgrade it or modify it in agreement with all of you. What's next? It's a repeated question. It will really depend on the current situation that will evolve. With regard to dislodgement in the sense of elective care, at the turn of this and next week the information will go to the hospital management that the recommendation or prohibition of the Ministry to carry out elective care is cancelled. It is currently being communicated with regional coordinators, and Professor Černý is responsible for this as my deputy, and it will be left to individual hospitals who know for themselves how they can afford it, and it will probably be done differently in individual regions, because the burden of hospitals is different. I've already spoken to the church. Visits of seniors are possible from category No. 3 and, if, for God's sake, this category is not present by Christmas, then the material of the main health care professional is prepared, which, under strict safety or hygiene measures, could allow these visits. One of the options is already mentioned testing. I believe that this measure will not be necessary. Tightening up, for example, the side of the shops and so on. Let us remember that it leads to deliberation in other sectors as well. Please note that we have nothing to do with business only. There are restaurants, schools, culture and others. So by restricting trade in some way, we try to reach out to everyone else and balance everything. I understand the comments, I'm not questioning them, I'm just trying to explain them. Risk groups. Yes, they will be taken into account in the test strategy that is now being completed. I was talking about funeral services. I completely agree that coronavirus is just one of the viral diseases, it will be here with us forever and we must learn to live with it and we must ensure that we treat it in the future as we do with others. I already talked about updating the table. For your information, when it was created, the original intention was not to have an emergency situation at stage 1 and level 2. Finally, with regard to our legal order and the restrictions that have been set there, we have come to change that it is actually appropriate to have an emergency situation at level 1 and 2, but, as I said before, this is a matter which is to be discussed further according to how the situation will develop. And certainly, for example, if, in the meantime, other legal arrangements were adopted in the emergency regime, which would allow restrictions on movement and business to be different from emergency conditions, then I'm sure you can talk about it. There's no such adjustment yet. And the current state is affected by this, and these are the limitations that pre-Christmas purchases are simply exceptional, never purchased as much as before Christmas, and this, of course, also affects the risk of contact, and thus the spread of the disease. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u98	Thank you. And now we will continue with the debate to which Mrs Valachová and then Mr Munzar are joined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do not be alarmed that I would like to prolong the debate, but, of course, I am speaking especially to the coalition ranks, because it is our intention to discuss this subject thoroughly, but to continue with other, no less important points of the day, but after consulting with the Minister of Health, I have decided to make a point here. I was talking about dealing with coalition and opposition MEPs in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Education, the question of the employment obligation of students, both high schools and universities. The intention is clear, this work obligation should be terminated and our students and students should be able to focus primarily on education. Unfortunately, only what was announced the reopening of the senior years and the final years of secondary schools, so I received this e-mail: The press conference of Minister Plaga, Mr. Blatný, writes Mum, so the seniors are due to return to the schools on 25 November. My daughter, who has already been ordered to work at the hospital, called me and said that it would be so that anyone who has a shift at the hospital will go to school on shifts, who is on leave. This can't be handled in the long run, one day a 12-hour shift at the hospital, the next day to school. These kids have an average of four twelves a week in the hospital. Unfortunately, not a word from the ministers again, as will be the case with these seniors who are required to work. Please, can you ask that so we know what happens to the students? I am not saying this here because we should spread panic, but on the contrary, that we are really dealing with this situation and the Minister of Health has assured me that he and the government will respond to it so that it is quite clear and adjusted in the principles that I have said since Wednesday 25 November. I felt it necessary to say this, because that is what today's point is that we listen to people who are concerned about what they need to deal with, and we can respond to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u100	Thank you. Mr Munzar now, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon, Minister. Today's decision about an emergency situation is a really difficult decision, because of course no one wants the number of infected to start to rise again and increase. But the individual Member does not have many options to show the government that many of the government's actions are illogical and pointless. One way to show this and to show your reservations is to disagree with the government's request to extend the emergency by 30 days. When I came to the House this morning, I disagree with some of the measures so fundamentally and I do not wish to legitimize them by my voice that I was convinced that I would not vote in favour of any extension of the emergency situation today. Finally, in agreement with our member club and with regard to the health system, I will support our joint proposal. I have many reservations about the measures and, in particular, the new PES plan. On the one hand, it is a good thing that the government finally came up with a plan after endless daily improvisation. However, according to this plan, it seems that we will still have an emergency for many months. This plan, for example, limits restaurant opening hours even when the virus is slim. I think it's clear to all of us that it's unrealistic that we're going to have a zero incidence here in the future. At the same time, this plan, let's say, preserves past illogical decisions of the government, which are in many cases liquidation for many establishments and take livelihoods from businessmen, companies and their employees. [[16.50 hours]] The longer some of these measures last, the more people stop managing the situation economically. We have to admit that. And compensatory measures won't save it, because they're insufficient. But the economy cannot afford to sacrifice businessmen, entrepreneurs and their employees, especially in the future. Our economy will need them for its future reboot. From my point of view, the government forgot that it should weigh not only the health aspect but also the social and economic aspect in all its decisions, and that is really because many people choose to make a living. The measures, and it has been mentioned here several times, are beaten by those who run, for example, small and medium-sized stores. It benefits large supermarkets, which sell not only food but also other products, and it gives them an incredible competitive advantage over the small ones. What will a person today who wants to buy children school supplies and can't go to a paper shop? He's going to the supermarket. What does he do when he needs to buy children new clothes or shoes? He's going to the supermarket. We are now in the pre-Christmas period, which means one of the peaks of the season for business. If only supermarkets are opened, only these chains will benefit from it, but even more will be the losses for small shops. And I'm afraid you're chasing our citizens into these supermarkets with these measures, and with the ban on sales on Sundays, you're still stockpiling them all, and by a new, unwarranted rule, one customer at 15 m2 is still chasing them into line. I would understand, Minister, that similar regime measures, i.e. restricting customers to the area, would also come up with the opening of small shops today, so I would really understand that this would be introduced precisely to open them up. You didn't open the door. You've just introduced more restrictions! And by not opening them, you're throwing overboard the livelihood of their owners and employees. I'm not calling for a full opening without some rules, without some regime measures. But that is precisely why we need to look for regime measures so that we can work in some way so that our economy can function. The "dog " itself shows that the same people who called for an even harder lockdown had been involved in his work. Indeed, the PES is trying to preserve existing strict measures and prohibitions as long as possible, even though the numbers are improving. And the plan itself brings new illogicality instead, from my point of view, the government should think about how best to work with the presence of the virus, because it will not go anywhere. We have to approach him, and you said it yourself, and I used the same words here in October that we had to treat him with respect, to treat each other with consideration and responsibility, but we must not - we must not - let him completely dominate and paralyze our lives to infinity. Because we can't keep turning on and off the economy over and over again. We don't know what's coming in the spring. We don't know what's coming next year. And we can't keep this condition forever. We need to find a way for society to work, to look for such meaningful solutions, so that in the end the treatment is not worse. I would like to ask the government to really think about this, not just in one way, but to think about our economy, our people's livelihoods and the education of our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u102	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will now appear. As far as I know, Mr Ferjenčík has already performed once, which means this is his second, and thus the final appearance at this meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to clarify some things because people turned to me after the first performance. I wanted to explain how our proposal was intended. We are proposing to extend the emergency situation only until Tuesday, 24 November, which makes it possible for the government to comply with the things that we propose, in particular to resolve discrimination against retailers, to further publish predictable recommendations for the Christmas period, to submit a draft law that will allow long-term functioning without a state of legislative emergency, and to start publishing the justification for its measures, which is, moreover, in the resolution tabled by Jakub Michálek. And if the government accepts this request, we are willing to proceed to a 14-day emergency extension period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. And now, Mr Bendl, who is the last member of the debate at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Good day again. There's been a lot going on here, but what I'm still coming up with didn't come up. I was kind of hoping that the Minister of Culture would come forward with this, who is listening to me now, which I believe will support me in the motion for an accompanying resolution. This concerns public media and concerns the Czech Radio Council and the Czech Television Council. I will read the resolution and make a brief comment. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic -" because it is an institution which is a prominently appointed by members of individual councils - "is calling on the Council of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Radio to take into account and promote an increase in the ratio of domestic production across genres in order to support Czech musicians and authors in their programming plans; asks for information on the measures taken in this matter by 31. 12. 2020." There's a special situation. I intend to turn to public media and not private media. It is deliberately said that these are advices that supervise public broadcasting. And I think now is the time for us to support Czech authors, Czech songs, Czech musicians, Czech theaters. People who suffer today often look for a different job because their business is over. And this is one of the forms we can help. It won't cost anything to budget the Ministry of Culture or the state budget, but we will support it by playing and, of course, by helping this sector with the dividends from playing. I think it would be fair for us to say this to individual councils and try to do so in a form that may not be taken as a political attack or some political, superpolitical pressure, but to look for a way to promote Czech production and Czech culture through public media, we could. And this is the one I'm offering. Thank you for your attention and I believe in its support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. That was the last common application in the general debate. However, I have some priority rights here. I was the first to have Mr Vácha volunteered for the TOP 09 Club, then Mr Jurečka, then Minister Blatný, and now I register Mrs Černochová's application with priority rights, I presume. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my Lord, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Markéta has already spoken for TOP 09. I come only with the reading of the resolution proposed by the TOP 09. Since there is no detailed debate, I came forward at the end of the general debate. Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 70th meeting of 19 November 2020: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. Calls on the Government to implement the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. Regulation (EC) No 1162 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 June 2020, Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament II. Notes that (a) the Government has inadequately justified its request of 16 November 2020 to extend the emergency situation, including the evaluation of existing measures; (b) the Government did not meet the deadline for drawing up the concept of strategic communication for the measures taken on COVID-19, including fact-checking and working with spreading disinformation on COVID-19 resulting from Resolution No. Regulation (EC) No 1257 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 September 2020 (c) the Government failed to meet the call for the accelerated implementation of the COVID - Culture 2 subsidy programme under Resolution No. 1238 of 17 September 2020.'; That was a statement, a true statement, and I hope you agree with them. In addition, the resolution continues: III. Asks the government to (a) to 1. 12. 2020 has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an overview of the government compensation, including information on the average length of processing of applications, while taking all necessary measures to reduce the length of administration as far as possible; (b) there has been an accelerated start-up of reimbursement of applications from COVID - Culture 2 which have not yet begun to pay off; (c) revise the antiepidemic system of the Czech Republic so that the first stage does not require emergency conditions and is defined as one state where PES is not required at all; [[PES]] (d) has been more consistent in communicating measures arising from the antiepidemic system of the Czech Republic; [[PES]] (e) publish without undue delay a timetable for the return of pupils to schools; (f) has submitted a clear vaccination plan for citizens of the Czech Republic against COVID-19, taking into account risk groups, availability of vaccines and vaccine capacity; (g) allowing citizens of the Czech Republic to register for vaccination against COVID-19 without undue delay; (h) to publish a plan and timetable for the return of health establishments to the standard care regime for all patients. IV. Saves (a) through the Government of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Health, to submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies for the remission of health and social insurance contributions for self-employed persons by 3 December 2020 by which, pursuant to Act No. 461/2020 Coll. there is entitlement to a compensatory bonus; (b) through the Government of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister for Health, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 3 December 2020, a proposal for the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy paid by the employer for employees in employment to those employers whom under Act No. 461/2020 Coll. there is entitlement to a compensatory bonus; (c) report to the Government at least one day before the end of the emergency situation on the proposed follow-up and evaluation of existing measures. V. Expresses thanks (a) all health care workers, social services workers, firefighters, police officers, soldiers, health professionals and others who care for patients with COVID-19 disease, and otherwise contribute to the control of the epidemic; (b) to all those involved in the operation of https://covid.gov.cz/ which contributes to informing the public about the measures currently in force. VI. It places the government at least one day before the end of the emergency situation with a report on the proposed follow-up and evaluation of the existing measures. This is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by the TOP 09. I have already delivered the resolution to the rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u108	Thank you, too. Have a nice evening. The next priority right will be given by President Jurečka and prepared by Minister Blatný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. Mr President, in order to give procedural satisfaction to the Rules of Procedure, I will say the precise text of the motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 4 December 2020.' That means that what I was explaining here justified the 14 days, so this is a concrete motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. Minister Blatný and President Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Just one of the last questions that hasn't been answered. It was again about opening all the shops. So let me just say again that this will be possible according to the current principle at level 3 and we have to get there. Then I wanted to ask you, too, because the same respect I want to show you, I have to show your colleagues in the Senate today, where I have to go in a few moments because of the law that we are presenting and which you sent there, so please, when I leave in a short time, do not take this in any way as disrespect to you, but rather as the respect that I have to show to both chambers of Parliament, and I want to do so. I want to thank you very much for today's great discussion, although it is not over yet, but I will probably have to move away. And I want to reiterate what I said at the beginning that with respect and humility I will take your decision, but despite everything, or perhaps precisely what we have said today, it takes my proposal to prolong the emergency by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u112	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, will take the floor with priority, and Minister Zaorálek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u113	Thank you for the floor. I will follow up on Mr Vácha's speech and I would like to ask the rapporteur to take note of this, and then I will pass it on to her in writing. In fact, we, the Civic Democrats' and Christian Democrats' clubs of the People's Czechoslovak Party, agree with the proposed resolution made by Mr Vácha. I just want to point out that point IV. (c) it is the same text as VI., so maybe I would recommend replacing it with another text and leaving the six, it's there twice in the text, it sometimes happens when you redo a relatively long resolution. In fact, this joint ODS and KDU proposal extends the motion for a resolution, particularly in areas III and IV. I'd consider it a waste of time to read the same ones or the same ones, so if you agree, I'd skip them. This means the same for I, II, III (a) to (h) as Mr Vácha has said. And now I'm going to read to you, let it be in the tapestry, another measure where the Chamber of Deputies asks the government to (i) immediately open small shops and establishments under the same conditions as those under which large ones are opened when certain arrangements are implemented; (j) it has immediately opened services, repair and servicing services when certain regime measures are complied with; (k) has immediately withdrawn the sales ban on Sunday; (l) re-evaluated the senseless and counterproductive rule of one customer per 15 square metres; (m) enabling pupils to return gradually to schools subject to certain regime measures, subject to the maximum possible protection of teachers; n) - I think he's repeating himself, so I'm not gonna say, (o) allow religious services and meetings to be carried out in compliance with certain regime measures; (p) open outdoor areas of zoos and botanical gardens in compliance with certain regime measures; [[17.10 hours]] (q) open museums and galleries in compliance with certain regime measures; (r) revoke the curfew; (s) prepare an evaluation of the measures implemented, a forecast of further developments and realistic epidemiological models; and (t) it has produced a calculation of the economic impact and damage caused by the measures provided for in the PES system. A point IV. - For points (a) and (b) which are identical, paragraphs (c) and (d) shall be added as follows: The Chamber of Deputies saves (c) through the Government of the Minister of Finance, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 3 December, an amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus, which would extend the range of compensation also to entrepreneurs and businesses indirectly affected by government measures related to SARS-CoV-2 disease; (d) through the Government of the Minister of Finance, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus by 3 December, which would allow the consummation of the drawdown of the compensation bonus and Antivirus programmes. I will give this in writing to the rapporteur, who has the bad luck of becoming the rapporteur. I really don't wish her that. And the Minister of Health says he has no choice, so he has a choice. He chose between the lower and upper ventricles. Let's remember, he chose the upper chamber. [[Fun in the hall.]] But in addition to that motion for a resolution, I would like to comment on his comments on the fact that by 21 there are open shops and by 21 you have to be at home. I think Sir Humphrey would be very pleased and perhaps we could make a new episode of Sure, Minister, in this case the health care of the Czech Republic, because it is clear that if I have to shop by 9:00 and be at home by 9:00, everyone knows they have to leave the store at 9:00. That means everyone who doesn't live in those stores can't use it anyway, but it's still right. I think Sir Humphrey and all those who wrote this genius series could learn and film this episode - as we allowed citizens to shop until 21 to stay at home! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u114	Thank you. The Minister of Culture of the Zaorálek will perform with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u115	Yes. Have a nice evening, almost, colleagues. So I will respond quickly, because I am a little surprised by Mr Petr Bendl's speech, who surprised me that this is an emergency in this meeting, but I am happy to respond to that, so that there is no doubt as to what I think about it. Because the proposal was a challenge. I do not know whether it should also take the form of a resolution to be voted on, that the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are called upon to support Czech music and authors in programme broadcasts and take into account the increase in the ratio of domestic production across genres. I may not be very pleased with the Member, but I think this is neither a matter nor a matter of advice to deal with it, that it is not a matter for the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council to enter into the programme plans. I don't think it's a House thing, that the House really shouldn't say what it's supposed to be on the Czech Television program, how much music there should be, what kind of music. I don't even think it's a matter of government to give homework on how much production is supposed to be on Czech Television or Czech Radio. Mr. Petr Bendl also remembers the past a little, and he certainly remembers as I did that we lived in a time when there really were quotas for how much Czech music should be, and English music could not be. It was probably very limited and could only be heard occasionally, so at that time quotas were probably for Soviet music, which had to be there, and Czech. And it seems to me that there were unfortunate times. I remember that at some point Vlado Mečiar tried to introduce himself in Slovakia, I think - I see that there are other memorials who remember it, but I did not find this a happy idea of the Slovak government introducing quotas for Slovak music. I think that Mr Bendl probably means well, because the effort to help Czech bodies, artists, musicians is legitimate in my opinion, and I think that I can understand that this is a good intention. But I think this is where we'd get to a slippery slope if we went that way. I want to assure you that - this is not the time to paint - but that this is what the Ministry of Culture should do and what I am trying to do, so support it in music or in the areas that we talk about. We do things we can talk about thoroughly. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on Tuesday the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra on ČT Art had the transfer of My Country in the submission of Chief Conductor Byčkov, which I think was a unique thing, and is preparing a number of other concerts. And here we are helping them to do this even if they don't have admissions, they don't have income from admissions. So I think there's a lot to do for Czech music, Czech authors, too, but I don't think this form is happy, and I don't think the House should do it with such challenges and such recommendations. But I'm saying, I don't want to lose the effort. We're living in a complicated time, and it's probably meant well, but I don't think this is a good way to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u116	Thank you. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u117	If I wanted to use my honored fellow minister's favourite words, I'd say you really don't understand. It wasn't like that. I would have expected you to say at the end of your speech: Mr Bendl is not directing it correctly to those councils, let us direct it to the management and programme director of all televisions and all radios. It's just a request to be taken into account. These are not quotas for Soviet songs or Slavia quotas that are legalized. It's one of the few ways, one of the small steps that could have helped artists at that difficult time. Nothing more, nothing less. So if there is a problem, and I have no reason to argue with the Minister that there are advices in this resolution that do not belong to it, then I suggest that we direct it to the programme directors of all televisions and radios that are licensed and broadcast in the Czech Republic to take into account the production of Czech artists in the coming months, unless it is normal to operate culture as usual. I don't think it's that we're breaking in. We are not ordering anyone, it is a courteous request, among other things, for the House to realize that the House will show these people that it is aware of their problems, that we are trying to find different ways of helping. Nothing is genius or self-saving. If this could be seen as a disproportionate intervention, I suggest we exchange the advice in this resolution for the programme director of all televisions and radios, and they'll deal with it somehow. He'll either consider it or he won't take it into account. I wouldn't look for anything wrong with it, and I wouldn't look for any change in the law or any quota. I think that's quite funny, but we really don't understand that, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u118	Chairman Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u119	Thank you for the floor. Very please, colleagues, let us not. I feel that Mr Bendl and Minister Zaorálek both meant this very well, and Mr Stanjura. The effort is to support as much as possible the cultural potential that is simply in this country and that is in existence at this moment. And I'm terribly worried that some of this threat is going to be annihilation, and it's also because in government measures, in our performance of art, musical art, culture, including bookstores as literature, it plays the role of so-called. leisure activities. But it's not leisure activity, it's a real part of our lives. Whoever calls it leisure activity, I say he remained frozen in the Bolshevik philosophy of the base and the superstructure. We just have to be aware that at this point, absolutely escaping part of national wealth, whether it's the virtuosity of musical art, whether it's literature, it's a real threat, and that while some, and now some, some entrepreneurs don't get mad at me, some types of business when they're gone, they're going to come back again, we're going to build on something that we inherited here, and if we're not able to pass it on, it's just not going to recover. And we can't save here. And I have heard the effort in the words of Mr Bendl, Mr Stanjura and Minister Zaorálek. I'm begging you so that we can have this effort together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. Are you applying for a debate? [[To the messenger. Boyko.]] A real point is not possible. In the debate...? [[Procedural design.]] A procedural proposal for what? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have already announced this in my speech that we will not support an extension of the emergency situation by one day, so I am making a procedural proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies cancels the emergency situation tomorrow and the associated restrictions, orders and bans."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u122	This is not a procedural proposal, this is a motion for a resolution that we will normally vote on. Last with priority rights, Vice-President of KSČM Luzar Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the KSČM club announced in its speech, we took part in an extensive debate here, we need to sort out some of the things that have been said here. There have been a lot of conflicting opinions that rule out each other, but also topics worth considering, so I'll allow myself to take five minutes off at the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u124	I'm declaring a break until 17.25. [[Break from 5:20 p.m. to 5:25 p.m.]] We have 17 hours 25 minutes, I miss the rapporteur here, who's going to have a very bad whole vote. Anyway, we are still in the debate and Mr Ondráček for the KSČM club will give their opinion. Please, you have the floor. [[Messenger. Don't you want to wait for the rapporteur?]] We'll wait for the rapporteur, I think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u125	I think it would be nice to wait for the rapporteur to know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u126	We'll try to wait for the rapporteur, that's true... I'm not calling for a break. Let's wait a minute... The rapporteur is rushing into the O.R., so let's get started. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And please calm down in the hall so we know what the next step will be and what we will do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. Mr President, honourable ministers, colleagues, as a representative of the KSČM club, I say that we have listened very closely to the whole debate with all the proposals that have been made here. We now thank the absent Minister of Health, who has tried throughout the day to answer most of the questions that have fallen during the debate, even though some of the answers have not satisfied us completely, and we perceive that some things remain, or some of the illogicalities of individual prohibitions, orders and exceptions remain, let's say, illogical. This way, we would also like to thank all the IZS files involved in this coronation, but also the citizens of the Czech Republic, who are still taking all the measures that they are. And now for the proposal we're making. It is a relatively simple short sentence: "The state of emergency is extended until 24.00 on 12. 12. 2020." It is Saturday, if this proposal is approved and should be dissolved, so the citizens have the preparation for this transition to the normal regime throughout Sunday and from Monday can start a normal life. If the government considers that it is necessary on the basis of all the facts found at the date before 12. 12th extend the condition again, we can meet on Friday 11th or Thursday 10th, it's a committee week, and we can devote that time to it. So far, according to all indications, and what the Minister of Health has mentioned is the assumption that within this "dog," if we call it that, the point could be passed, or the state would go to point 3, or to stage 3, at the end of November or early December. So let's wait that period, if this were to happen, we're going to gradually relax and we're going to see. So I repeat once again: the emergency is extended until 24.00 on 12. 12. 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u128	Thank you. I don't see anyone else enrolled in the debate, I'm ending the debate. We shall proceed to the vote on individual proposals. I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the procedure, because there are a number of proposals that we will have to vote on orientally, and then there are a number of accompanying resolutions. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up what has been said and at the same time propose a procedure. The Government's proposal pursuant to Article 6 (2) of the Treaty was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the Constitutional Security Act - to extend the emergency situation until 20 December 2020. In the general debate, representatives of all the political parties and parliamentary clubs have spoken gradually. For the government, both the Prime Minister and the First Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers of Health and Education responded. The following procedural proposals have been made regarding the extension of the emergency situation: The second proposal, following the first proposal made by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies through the Prime Minister, was the proposal to prolong the emergency situation, the emergency situation is extended until 24.00 on 12 December 2020, by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Another proposal that was made in the debate was the proposal to extend the emergency situation until 4 December 2020, both KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. There was also a proposal to extend the emergency situation to 27. 11. 2020 by the Civil Democratic Party. Last time, there was a motion to prolong the emergency until November 24th on the Pirate side. The last motion was made by Bojko Marian, who proposed: The Chamber of Deputies will cancel the emergency and the associated restrictions and bans tomorrow. These are therefore all the procedural proposals that have been made to prolong the emergency situation with which the Government has turned to the Chamber of Deputies. Proposals for accompanying resolutions were also made in the debate, by the Pirate Party, the TOP 09 and also by Petr Bendl. From the point of view of the procedure, I suggest we proceed as we have already experienced the procedure during the last extension of the emergency state, which means that first The Chamber of Deputies voted Orientally, Mr President, from the Government's proposal, that is to say, the longest time to extend the emergency by 30 days, until 20 December, and subsequently through the proposals of the Communist Party, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ODS and Pirates to the proposal to cancel the emergency situation, as I have read them, with the result that, according to the outcome of this indicative vote, The Chamber of Deputies voted on the proposal to extend the emergency situation, which will receive the highest number of votes from Members present in the indicative vote. Next, when the Chamber of Deputies is voting in some version of the extension of the emergency situation, or not, we would proceed to the vote on all three accompanying resolutions, and in view of their nature, I recommend, Mr President, to the Chamber of Deputies, that we vote on individual points, that is, to deal with their entire content. I am afraid that if I had not proposed this as rapporteur, no doubt one of the colleagues who made these resolutions will try to do so. So much for my procedural proposal. I hope I haven't forgotten anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u130	Okay, thank you. So we will vote in accordance with Section 72 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure orientally on individual proposals to prolong the emergency situation and then we will vote individually after items of the individual draft accompanying resolutions. Is that okay with that? Is there any objection to this procedure? It's not, so I'm gonna let you vote orienteering. Madam rapporteur, please make a motion and I will take a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u131	The first proposal is a proposal by the Government to extend the emergency by 30 days until 20 December 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u132	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 3, 106 Members registered, for 48, against 32.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u133	The next proposal is a proposal to extend the emergency situation until 24.00 on 12 December 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u134	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 4, registered 103, for 53. Another vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u135	The next proposal is a proposal to extend the emergency situation until 4 December 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u136	I've started the vote. Who's in? - I was rightly advised that in an indicative vote only in favour. Voting order number 5, registered 104, for 7. Another one?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u137	Mr President, I would like to ask for a moment of patience from the point of view of the fact that an indicative vote is taking place. Mr President, colleagues, I am merely pointing out as rapporteur, and not all of us in the Chamber of Deputies realized that, in the case of an indicative vote, it is only possible to vote yes, but none of the political parties are asking for a repeat vote, so we are continuing the indicative vote. Another proposal is to extend the emergency situation to 27. 11. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u138	I've started the vote. Who's in? Voting order number 6, registered 103, for 14.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u139	Another proposal is to extend the emergency situation to 24. 11. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u140	I've started the vote. Who's in? Voting order number 7, registered by 103 Members, for 28.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u141	Another proposal and last in line in terms of procedural voting proposals is an extension of the emergency situation to 24. 11. 2020. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The next is the proposal by Mr Bojek Marian: The Chamber of Deputies will abolish the emergency situation tomorrow and the associated restrictions and bans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u142	I've started the vote. Who's in? Voting order number 8, registered by 103 Members, for 16.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u143	We have thus completed the indicative vote, Mr President, fellow Members. In an indicative vote, the highest number of votes of Members present and Members of Parliament received a proposal to extend the emergency situation until 24.00 on 12. 12. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u144	I would ask for peace in the Chamber because we will vote on the final motion for a resolution. Here it is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 24.00 on 12. 12. 2020." I'll sign you all out. Please sign in. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 9, registered by 103 Members, for 56, against 42. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Madam rapporteur, now for the various accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u145	At this point, we must deal with three accompanying resolutions. The first is the order...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u146	This is Mr. Juránek reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u147	I voted against, and I've got a pro on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u148	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u149	I'm very sorry, co-workers, colleagues. We do not always agree with Mr Juránek, but the same thing happened to me. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] I voted against, and I've got a pro on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u150	So we have two doubts about the vote. I will put it to a vote on the objection to questioning the vote. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of questioning the vote? Who's against it? Voting order number 10, 103 Members signed in for 102, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote again on the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 24.00 on 12. 12. 2020." I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 11, registered by 103 Members, for 54, against 46. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Please, rapporteur, accompanying resolutions and please rest in the Chamber, so that we know what we are voting on. And I don't like to hear what the rapporteur has to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, fellow Members, we would now like to vote on three accompanying resolutions. I propose that we respect the order of time as it was read in the general debate. We would be the first to vote on the proposal for an accompanying resolution by the Pirate Party, and then we would vote on the proposal for an accompanying resolution by the TOP 09, with the result that I would draw attention to the points proposed by the Civic Democratic Party in the vote. It is from the point of view of the motion for a resolution of Roman III, points (ch) to (t). These are therefore the proposals of the Civil Democratic Party. And then to point IV (c) to (d). I'm just pointing out an adjustment that I don't think will be called into question. In that original draft accompanying resolution TOP 09, where Roman point VI would remain, that is to say, it requires the government to present at least one day before the end of the emergency situation a report on the proposed follow-up and evaluation of the existing measures, and the point that was there would have fallen, probably only a technical error in point (c) of the Roman IV. Yes, from the O.R., Mr President, I reflect my approval of this procedure. Finally, we would vote on the resolution by Petr Bendl concerning the support of Czech musicians and authors. I'll read it later in the vote. As I said at the beginning, although it is a long marathon, I therefore propose a vote on individual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u152	Please note that we have another meeting starting at 6:00 p.m., so before 6:00 p.m., I will end the vote at any stage. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor. Chairman Stanjura reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u153	After the debate I had with Minister Zaorálk, Mr Petr Bendl, and what President Kalousek said, I suggest that we not vote today. We're gonna take this to the election committee and see if we can find a formulation that will fulfill the common goal so that we don't have any problems, that we're putting undue pressure on someone. So I'm glad we could talk about it this way over the microphone. And we'll try to discuss this on the electoral committee and then come up with it at the Chamber of Deputies plenary. So we wouldn't have voted on Petr Bendl's final proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u154	Thank you, Zbyněk Stanjur. And, Mr President, I believe, therefore, that this proposal by Petr Bendl has been withdrawn in a procedural manner. That is, now, to the pirate's motion for an accompanying resolution. The Chamber of Deputies instructs the Government to implement the following measures by 23 November 2020: (a) to ensure that Czech traders stop discrimination against large multinational chains, to set up retail outlets for compliance with the same sanitary measures, so as not to increase the concentration of people in certain shops and the concentration of people in a few days before Christmas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u155	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 12, 103 Members signed in for 56, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u156	(b) publish clear and predictable recommendations for people's behaviour for Christmas periods, family meetings, visits to senior homes, purchases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u157	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 13, 103 Members signed in for 44, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u158	(c) to process and submit a draft law in a legislative emergency which will allow epidemiological measures without the need for a declared emergency and central management of regional health stations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u159	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 14, 103 Members registered, for 33, against 7. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u160	(d) publish, together with the measures declared, a proper justification which shall stand before the court and take into account the data and other supporting documents on which the measures declared have been based.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u161	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 15, registered by 103 Members, for 35, against 1. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u162	Now, Mr President, we have dealt with the proposal for an accompanying resolution by the Pirate Party, and we can move on to the proposal for an accompanying resolution by the TOP 09 on points extended by the Civil Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u163	Please, we can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u164	And I can hear you from the diaper. Let me say, Mr President, I hope that this will not be called scandalous, but also given the time, and I believe that my colleagues will support this, first to vote in paragraph V, to express my thanks. The Chamber of Deputies expresses thanks to all health care professionals, social services workers, firefighters, police officers, soldiers, health professionals and others who care about patients with COVID-19 disease and otherwise contribute to the management of the epidemic, to all those involved in the operation of the web covid.gov.cz , which contributes to informing the public of the measures currently in force.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u165	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 16, 103 Members signed in for 102, against no one, the proposal was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u166	Now in the order of the motion for an accompanying resolution. The Chamber of Deputies I calls on the Government to implement the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1162 of 4 June 2020, resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1327 of 30 October 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u167	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 17, 102 Members signed in, for 41, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u168	II. It states that (a) the Government has inadequately justified its request of 16 November 2020 to extend the emergency situation, including the evaluation of existing measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u169	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 18, registered by 102 Members, for 49, against 6. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u170	(b) the Government has not complied with the deadline for drawing up the strategic communication concept for the measures taken on COVID-19, including fact-checking and work on spreading disinformation on COVID-19 resulting from Resolution 1257 of 30 September 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u171	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 19, 102 Members registered, for 35, against 2. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u172	(c) the Government has failed to meet the call for the accelerated implementation of the COVID - Culture II subsidy programme. Resolution No 1238 of 17 September 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u173	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 20, 102 Members signed in for 48, no one opposed it. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u174	III. asks the Government to (a) to 1. 12. 2020 has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an overview of the government compensation, including information on the average length of handling applications, while taking all necessary measures to reduce the length of administration as much as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u175	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 21, 103 Members signed in for 49, no one opposed it. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u176	(b) there has been an accelerated launch of reimbursement of applications from COVID - Culture II, which have not yet been paid out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u177	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 22, 103 Members signed in for 50, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u178	(c) revised the antiepidemic system of the CR PES so that the first stage did not require emergency conditions and the state of zero was defined when PES would not be required at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u179	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 23, 103 Members registered, for 54, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u180	(d) was more consistent in communicating measures arising from the antiepidemic system of the Czech Republic PES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u181	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 24, 103 Members registered, for 35, no one opposed. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u182	(e) has published a timetable for the return of pupils to schools without undue delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u183	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 25, 103 Members registered, for 50, against no one. The motion was denied. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I am interrupting the vote. We have another meeting at 6:00. I am interrupting the vote so that we have five minutes to prepare the meeting, which is convened at 18.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members of the Government, it is 18.45, we will continue the adjourned 70th emergency meeting. I'm going to sign you all out. I'm going to ask you to sign up again in this section. The meeting was adjourned just before the end of the vote. We have a few accompanying resolutions left. I will ask the rapporteur to show us the rest of the vote. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. [[He sounds gong, he's waiting.]] So, rapporteur, we have just become a quorum. [[Present according to the board of 67 Members and Members.]] I ask you to present us with a proposal that we will vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will therefore continue to vote on the individual points of the accompanying resolution TOP 09, ODS and KDU-ČSL. III. (f) has submitted a clear vaccination plan for citizens of the Czech Republic against COVID-19, taking into account risk groups, availability of vaccines and vaccine capacity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u186	We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered is 92, for 31, versus 3. This proposal was not adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u187	(g) it has enabled citizens of the Czech Republic to register for vaccination against COVID-19 without undue delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u188	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 27, present 95, for 31, versus 4. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u189	(h) to publish a plan and timetable for the return of health establishments to the standard care regime for all patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u190	Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 28, registered 95, for 32, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u191	Now, Mr President, the following are the points added by Zbyněk Stanjura, paragraph (i) and the following: point III. (i) it immediately opened small shops and establishments under the same conditions as those under which the large ones are open, subject to certain arrangements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u192	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 29, registered 98, for 49, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u193	(j) it immediately opened services, repair and servicing services when certain mode...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u194	One moment, will there be any comment on the vote? There you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just checked. I voted in favour, but I'm on drugs because I'm late, so I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u196	Are you questioning me? Okay. So, first of all, we will vote on Mr Cernohorska's objection to vote 28, I presume, to the last one. 29. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of accepting the objection? Who's against it? Voting number 30, registered is equal to 100, for 96, against no one. So we're going to repeat the number 29 vote on... I will ask the rapporteur to tell us again just in case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u197	Yes, Prime Minister. Thus, the vote under (i) immediately opened small shops and establishments under the same conditions as the large ones under which they are open, in compliance with certain arrangements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u198	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 31 entered 98, for 48, against no one. The motion was not accepted. So please... One moment, once again for the vote, President Jurečka. With priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u199	Thank you. I'll be brief. I'm very sorry, but then I don't understand the vote of my colleagues from the KSČM club when Mr. Ondráček here in the morning gets upset about how small shops are closed, how unfair it is, then don't make a fool of these people, but vote accordingly when your people say so!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u200	Please, Vice-President Luzar has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u201	I would like to point out to the honourable colleague that, in those resolutions that we are adopting against the government, there is quite enough, and if he should pay attention, the pirát have proposed similar resolutions on small- and wholesale, which we have supported. And that pirate resolution makes more sense than what has now been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u202	So we're clear on that. Madam rapporteur, please, we will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u203	(j) it has immediately opened services, repair and servicing services, subject to certain regime measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u204	Initiating vote. Who's in? I ask for peace in the hall and during the vote! Who's against it? In vote 32 registered 99, for 39, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u205	(k) immediately canceled the sales ban on Sunday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u206	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? There are 99 Members in the vote 33 for 46. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u207	(l) re-evaluated the senseless and counterproductive rule of one customer per 15 square meters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u208	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 34 is 99 for 40, against 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u209	(m) enabling pupils to return gradually to schools subject to certain regime measures, subject to the maximum possible protection of teachers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u210	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 35 registered 99, for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u211	(n) draw up and publish a vaccination plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u212	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? There are 98 Members in vote number 36, for 31, against 4. Denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u213	(o) have enabled worship and religious meetings to be carried out in compliance with certain regime measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u214	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? There are 99 Members in the 37 vote, for 44, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u215	(p) open outdoor areas of zoos and botanical gardens in compliance with certain regime measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u216	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 38 registered 99, for 47, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u217	(q) open museums and galleries in compliance with certain regime measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u218	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? There are 99 Members in the 39 vote, for 38, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u219	(r) revoke the curfew.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u220	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The number 40 vote is 99 for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u221	(s) prepare an evaluation of the measures implemented, forecasts of further developments and realistic epidemiological models.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u222	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 41 entered 99, for 43, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u223	(t) it has produced a calculation of the economic impact and damage caused by the measures provided for in the PES system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u224	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 42 registered 99, for 44, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u225	We shall now proceed to the vote in point IV. The Chamber of Deputies imposes: (a) through the Government of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Health to submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies by 3 December 2020 for the remission of health and social insurance contributions for self-employed persons by whom under Act No. 461/2020 Coll. there is a claim for a compensatory bonus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u226	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 43 entered 99, for 46, against 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u227	(b) Through the Government of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Health, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 3 December 2020, a proposal for the remission of social security premiums and a contribution to the state employment policy paid by the employer for employees in employment to those employers whom under Act No. 461/2020 Coll. there is a claim for a compensatory bonus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u228	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 44, registered 99, for 46. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u229	We will now vote on points (c) and (d) added to IV by Zbyněk Stanjura. (c) through the Government of the Minister of Finance, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies, by 3 December, an amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus, which would extend the range of compensation also to entrepreneurs and businesses indirectly affected by government measures related to SARS-CoV-2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u230	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45, registered 99, for 47, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u231	(d) through the Government of the Minister of Finance to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus by 3 December, which would allow the consummation of the drawdown of the compensation bonus and the Antivirus programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u232	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered 99, for 45, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u233	We now move on to point VI, it is the last point of the original resolution. We have already accepted thanks to health care workers, social services workers and others, i.e. VI, obliges the government at least one day before the end of the emergency, to submit a report on the proposed follow-up and evaluation of existing measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u234	I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered 99, for 78, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u235	Mr President, the latest accompanying resolution was withdrawn by the petitioner. So we've dealt with all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-070-01-001-001.u236	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm done discussing this point. At the same time, I am ending the 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, whose programme has been exhausted. Now, we're gonna need five minutes to set up the voting device, so I'm interrupting until 7:08.
