ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-005-999.u1	The joint debate on points 246 and 250 Pavel Kováčik, the President of the KSČM Club, has signed up as the first priority, and a Member of Zdeněk Podal himself to a merged debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-005-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, I must first say that I am pleased that we have succeeded in this matter together, or in these matters, because it is not only forests and crusts, but also other calamity pests, which have recently multiplied in the fields or in the forests, which mean serious threats not only to the economy but also to the environment for many years in advance. I would also say that I welcome what both ministers have said here not only in terms of content, but also the seriousness and detail with which they have devoted their introductory words. And I think it is a good thing that other colleagues and fellow Members from the Chamber of Deputies join in on this subject, not trying to earn some political points, but trying to help with the solution. I would like to say briefly and briefly explain what we really want in addition to this general move on some kind of braking or on some sort of rescue situation, or on the prevention of what we want to achieve. We have formulated this in a resolution or a motion for a resolution. Therefore, I would like to talk seriously about what has been discussed for a long time and what both ministers have also talked about, and, if possible, to discuss effectively the strengthening of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture beyond the approved State budget for 2020, some additional funding that would be intended to Bendl the impact of the bark sludge in the forests and to support the subsequent restoration of forests. I must say that, of course, some funds have already been released in this regard, especially those small and medium-sized forest owners who otherwise do not have the chance to recover properly, thus ensuring not only planting but also the basic maintenance of the new crops. There is a need to help very quickly so that the forest land can be reforested. And I have to say that I welcome such a certain softening of the relatively rigid rules concerning not only species compositions but also habitat types and so on and so on, that not only non-originating species can be used, but also absolutely some non-standard, unusual and yet unwelcome procedures and unwelcome species of trees can be used. I'm gonna take a turn around here. These are especially some areas in Vysočina and South Moravia, where, after, for example, in the south-eastern end of the district of Třebíč completely dried up not only thanks to bark tree, but also pine due to other pests and dramatic water reduction, so the only tree that survives there and which grows there despite these very harsh conditions is the acaciat. I must say that there are already plots in Brno that try to grow an acacia as farm trees. The farmers and foresters in Hungary have a very good experience of this, where they focused on the breeding and cultivation of acacias as farm trees about 25 years ago. That's where they've had their problems with the more arid areas a long time ago. And I have to say that there is a very positive result and that, at least for a time, there will be another climate change that will lead this Central Europe to wet flights - and that time may take decades - so it is also economically useful, let's say, ecologically the acaciat. Moreover, we beekeepers or friends of beekeepers know that acacia honey is very good. Furthermore, we want to achieve that possible solution to preventive and corrective measures to create a legislative framework and framework at the official position that we want to ask, by resolution, the Ministry of Agriculture, to prepare and submit material at the Government's meeting to quantify the needs of those additional funds under paragraph one of this resolution, in the context of the time-frame for summing up the necessary data for 2019. That means it's up to date, so it's not just some numbers sucked out of the thumb. We also ask the Ministry - we would like to achieve that the ministries that are affected by the solution to this topic, as well as other central government bodies, have their work on these matters coordinated. So that it does not simply happen that ministries, such as finance and the environment, will go against each other, but there will be a general interest in making the solution quick and effective. Furthermore, we would also like to create the necessary conditions for owners and forest managers, and these are the conditions for effective protection of forests against bark and for successful restoration of new more resilient forests. That's the concreteization of that point one. Then I will personally support what my colleague Bendl is proposing here, which means creating legislative conditions for owners and forest managers, which will take into account the effects of natural climate change, i.e. changes in natural conditions, on their legal obligations in restoring the forest. I also said that we welcome the refinement, the softening of the rigid responsibilities so that the main objective could be fulfilled, that is, the most effective restoration, and also that the renewed forest would be more permanent. Finally, we would also ask the Ministry of Agriculture to process the analysis - and this is also the issue of Mr.Petr Bendl - about processing the analysis of possible measures against the reduction of water vapor from forest soil. This topic of water retention in the countryside is valid and acute not only for agricultural land, agricultural land and other land, but it is also very important within the woods, and my colleague Bendl here stressed it in sufficient detail and justified it, i.e. against the reduction of fumes from forest land on calumny shavings for the purpose of water retention in the woods, and to make it a measure not as a task lasting but until 30. 6th of this year. Furthermore, we would like to ask, as the Chamber of Deputies, the Ministry of the Environment, that it should somehow show synergies in creating conditions for effective protection of forests against pests, within the scope of the authorities of state administration in the area of nature conservation and their decision-making practice. The point is, maybe it'll go faster, so there'll be an effort to make an agreement faster. So it doesn't take as long as solving the problem with the vole, when the ministerial agreement was for my taste, and not just for my taste, for farmers' taste, quite long. Today it is reached, there are possible measures, they were mentioned in the speech of Minister Toman. But there is simply a need to move faster in this direction, because the faster it will progress, the lower and lower the subsequent damage. At this point, my colleagues, I would end my speech. Thank you for your attention. I would like to ask you to support this motion for a resolution, which I gave you to the various clubs before the start of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-005-999.u3	Thank you. At the same time, you would also be the rapporteur on this point. But that's after the deal with you. Mr Zdeněk Podal has the floor now, but one minute. Ambassador, does that make sense to you? [[He doesn't.]] I'd like to ask you in the O.R. if you don't object to me interrupting the meeting. Okay. Then I interrupt the meeting, interrupt this point, and I will see you in - Sorry, Mrs Němcová. [[This is Mrs. Němcova reporting.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-005-999.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm just organized. I want to ask you, Mr Vice-President, if you have any information on the course of the afternoon negotiations, because we usually received information on who is being interpolated between 11:00 and one on the table, and now we don't have it. Well, I don't know if there was a deal that we could get it electronically or whatever.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-005-999.u5	Yes, you're right. Normally, I've already got it here. Just a moment, I'll check it out. [[The president's on the phone.]] So they said they sent it up here somewhere, but I don't have it here, and I get it by default. However, the Prime Minister is said to be confirmed. And now I'm waiting for the phone call, so what's with the lists, 'cause I normally have them here already. That's right. So I'll wait and keep you posted on the microphone. Anyway, I'm declaring that break by 2:30 p.m. I already have a phone. [[He's on the phone.]] So they say the service has been busy for some reason, which means they're going to hand it over to the tables now. Otherwise, for your information, I immediately received the numbers for the Prime Minister so that at least you would be informed in a partial way: 23 by interpellation is in the order of the Prime Minister, 47 by interpellation to ministers. And now it should be delivered to the tables in the next few minutes, I presume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-005-999.u6	Madam, honourable Members, Prime Minister, we will continue this afternoon's meeting at paragraph 258, which is an interpelling to the Prime Minister and to the members of the government.
