ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u1	3. Information of the Minister of Education Robert Plaga on the reopening of primary schools I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga take the floor. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you, just as I did on the school committee this morning, about the timetable and plan for the reopening of primary schools, and not just primary schools, in the Czech Republic. When I think about the basic things that fell on the school committee, and so that we don't spend time here in the subsequent debate, I'll just say them in the opening word. This means, in terms of school relaxation, a clear timetable, or a law that regulated the area of secondary schools, or regional education as a whole, we had here in the House, I think, in March, responded to the situation, and at the same time we had a law that regulated the area of universities. Why this was important, I will get to that in the next moment, with the fact that we have clearly said by this law that if the personal presence of pupils is not restored, the students of secondary schools to 1. 6th, so they're going to be official graduations. I can tell you that 14. 4. we have presented a clear timetable, which we are still holding with slight adjustments. That means 11. 5. return those final years that make the final exam, the final exam, and thanks to the good development of the epidemiological situation what we had, the ambition to return to the process at least the ninth year, which prepares for the single entrance exam, respectively for the entrance exam, has now been achieved since 11. 5. The second wave, which has strict hygiene-epidemiological rules of homogeneous 15-member groups and concerns the first grade of primary schools, is returning to Czech schools 25. 5. Both waves are characterized by the principle of volunteering, distance teaching - and here it is appropriate to cut off the tribute to Czech schools, teachers and directors, how they got there. The remote teaching that takes place at this time will be the dominant one, or should be the dominant one by 30. 6. 2020. At the same time, it's 25. 5. This is not only a matter of the first stages of primary schools, but it is also a matter of the need for special schools, which is one of the topics that we have dealt with on the school committee today. Schools special - 25. 5. At the moment, those that are for auditory, visual and other faults are opening up, while, for example, in the area of autistic spectrum disorders, we are debating the possible opening, the voluntary opening, either to 25. 5 or 1. 6. Please note that in addition to the voice of parents and some schools for reopening, there is a very important voice from the second part of the same special schools, which says that for a group of children who are not now included in the dispersal plan and the original schedule was not expected to open until 30. 6. there are significant health risks, combined defects, weakened immunity, inoculation and other things that may be a problem. But we're dealing with the problem. I firmly believe that we will solve it and on a voluntary basis, and I dare say, or the assumption of some conversion from parents, i.e. the clear wish of parents, that the child should be put into that environment, and the maintenance of the hygiene standards at the level of special schools will, I believe, be discussed also in this area, which was basically the most discussed on the school committee today. If I take the chronology. 14. 4. we presented a schedule of relaxation that concerned universities, secondary schools, primary schools and, of course, kindergartens, although the regime is different all the time, but we said that by the end of April together with health care professionals we would prepare standards or methodologies that would be applicable by those schools. We prepared these by 30 April in cooperation not only with health care professionals, we gave a level playing field to the feasibility and consulted with the elementary and secondary school directors, whether it was feasible, and we based on the fact that we looked at the surrounding countries or not only the surrounding countries, but also the European countries on how they approach the issue. At the same time, I said that, based on the evolution of the epidemiological situation, we will declare the exact date of the single entrance exam and the graduation exam by the end of May at the latest. I did this in the light of the positive development 6. 5., so at this point it's clear that graduations are starting 1. 6. and Single Admission Examinations 8. 6. which is in accordance with all the declared requirements and the declared timetable for the publication of these tests. [[20.00 hours]] As for the manual, the manuals went to our schools. The Ministry of Education has phone lines all along the coronation. I must say that the directors are turning around, consulting, because the Czech education system is very diverse. That means someone's stationed in more buildings, someone's got a dining room across town, someone's got it within walking distance. That means they're individual cases. And the interpretation of the methodology, which is definitely not a punishing methodology, but a methodology that helps, calling for compliance with those standards, although of course I perceive that this cannot be done in case of clustering in front of the school at full 200 per cent, therefore there is also a minimize of the contact, not avoiding full contact in the wording that is used there, so the methodologies continue to address the questions of individual subjects on our line, or several lines that answer questions. At the same time, I would like to say that yesterday we had a meeting with the school tripartite in the field of employment. There was a request made for us to specify on the pages the variants given in the manual. That means, we're saying that the school principal is primarily, if he's not a teacher or a teacher, he's part of a teaching group, and he doesn't have time, or he's from a risk group, and he's not supposed to go to that presentation class, so it's supposed to be dealt with by offering him that distance education. And there are other tools to the Labour Code. And one of these tools is the last thing in my view, and that's the unpaid leave that's mentioned there. Certainly, it is not so if you look at the methodologies that the Ministry of Education would encourage teachers who cannot teach on a permanent basis to end up on unpaid leave. That's never been there, and it's not. But the unions have raised, the school unions have made a request that even those teachers who happen to happen, and I believe that by chance and not by intent, find themselves in a situation where the principal pushes them to unpaid leave, so that they have the support of interpreting all variations, including incapacity for work, holiday selection and other instruments available. This is what we agreed, this is what we'll put on our website by the end of the week as a specification. As well as one interpretation in the field of distant teaching at basic art schools, where we have specified it, and it is in our usual frequent questions, but it is not yet directly on the front page of the Ministry of Education. We agreed on these two things yesterday with tripartite. While I can say that both trade unions and employers have acknowledged these methodologies, as well as those methodologies have been positively acknowledged by associations such as primary school directors. I'm not saying they're perfect, but I'm saying they're helpful. And, of course, it can be driven by them. It's nothing bullying. There is a part that comes from the general principles of individual responsibility, which, whether we want or not, regardless of whether we are in school, whether we are in the public domain or we are in the store, we simply have to approach, and we have to act like one if we are to continue to cope with the epidemic. Thank you for the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u3	So, I ask now that the appellant of this point, Mrs Jana Černochová, take her word for it, who, if she agrees, and has already sat there, will also be the rapporteur. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u4	Thank you. I would like to thank all colleagues and colleagues and the Minister for holding up. I'll admit I didn't expect you to place that point. The minister here has listed a number of things that result from methodology. But he didn't say the most important thing that I asked and what I was floating here. That means what's going on with the prep classes. The preparatory classes, Minister, are in accordance with Section 47 of Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education. According to this law, these entities operate certain primary schools of the municipality as a founder. Specifically, I know in Prague that our Prague 2 district has several so-called preparatory classes. Those preparatory classes are actually intermediate stages after the end of the motherhood before the first grade. And in your methodology, in your manual, none of the manuals mention these preparatory classes. So the directors don't know if these classes can open or not. And it's important to them because they need to know the number of these groups of 15 children and they need the sooner the better. I've been writing you an interview in this spirit, and you have 30 days for it, but it's gonna be too late. They need to know as soon as possible in that term to make those groups. Mr. Secretary, I wanted to ask you for some more information. It's also not quite specified in the manual how it's going to be with the children's stay from school, for example, if they want to play a field that isn't on campus. I mean, if it's on that playground that's only going to be set aside for them at that hour, but if those kids have to wear drapes. This is another question that all directors also ask us as founders, and they don't know. You, on the one hand, say that the manual is just some kind of recommendation. On the other hand, I would like to know, Minister, what will happen or what the Director should do. Because the director gets that you're actually questioning the manual that it's not legally binding, so the director can get into a difficult situation. Because, for example, parents will be demanding entry during June, when those groups will already be created, and the director has no option of rejecting them. Just as if something had happened somewhere, the plague had spread. So if the manual is followed only by a framework, then who will be responsible? School, director, ministry, if it's just a recommendation? The founder? Who will be legally responsible for this? When you're in some kind of conversation, I think it was for the seznam, he said blind adherence to the manual was stupid. That's what it was supposed to say to the directors and put it in the preamble, then they wouldn't ask these questions. But they've been taking it as binding all along. [[20.10 hours]] Unfortunately, your hotline doesn't work. They've been trying to call for days. Really, I swear, Minister. I don't want to argue with you, but they've actually tried several times to call and find out some information. It didn't work out. It's possible that it was during the period when the manuals actually came out, and your people were overloaded. But there were no calls and some questions. So I'd like to ask you one more time to know what's going on with the prep classes. Whether they can be opened or not. As it is with masks outside the school's object on the playground, where only children from one group will move, and it was like 15-numbered from some school, so whether it has to or doesn't have to. They have to be for the road, but if they have to be on the field. And then I want to ask you how it is with the legal obligation of the manual, who will be responsible for any problems that may arise from the wrong interpretation. These are all the things that the warden is worried about. Understand them. He's been trying to do a good job the whole time. Now there's a D-day ahead of them and they want to keep everything that's expected of them. Thank you. I appreciate you coming to us. Thanks again to my colleagues and colleagues for putting me on that point and for sticking around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u5	There. Well, I wouldn't... Mr. Secretary, just a moment. If you would agree, you have the right of priority, but in order for other Members to participate in the debate, I would like to open a general debate... If you don't mind, you can step out with priority rights, but this is no way for Members to... So I would start a general debate. Now, Minister, you have priority rights. Mr Václav Klaus is still reporting - but he has priority rights, so you will now express yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u6	Thank you. Thank you for the questions. For at this time, which is of course uncertain, is an emergency, I completely perceive that a number of children have uniform entrance exams ahead of them, a number of children have graduation exams. Directors have to deal with a situation that's unstandard. I don't think he's at the moment, and believe me, a person in this republic who would want a more normal state than the Minister of Education in the field of education. And because this is a situation that is difficult for all of us, including the staff of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and even if it may be unbelievable, but they are people, too, and they have their children, and they have been dealing with these things all the time, they have gone nowhere, and they have invented the measures, they have consulted the measures, and they have done the best possible. That's what I stand for. Which answers the fourth question. We're not going to argue about whether or not it works as a help line. I have an overview of how many calls they solved during the first week of the coronation. I know I've had to trade people on that help line twice, because some of the seniors - and I firmly believe that not the real, decent seniors - were calling them names there, and in such a way that those people were just facing a negative on the line. Every one of us is meeting it, I can see it, but please, here I am defending these people, they're picking up, they're answering. And on that line really - only when I was mapping for this week, and this week the members tried it, or virtually. One of the Deputy Secretary's replies. And she answered the principals, and the directors thanked them. At the same time, webinars also run in the common agenda and the webinars run to the covid situation, where several hundred people report. That means, we really do, we do. I'm not questioning it, I'm sure the Ministry of Education's website fell out several times, and I'm sure somebody didn't make a phone call when he called. Try to compare it to the situation when you call JPC or anywhere else, if you've always reached the first good one. For me, I say that if... Because it's on cell phones, so it's called back. I'm defending my subordinates here because they're really shaving to the maximum all the time, and they're facing incredible pressure, negation, and yet they're handling it with bravaura, and thanks for that, even if what you said might have happened. Now, about the questions in the matter. As far as the preparatory classes are concerned, I have good news for you. It is mentioned in the usual questions and answers to the Ministry of Education. And yes, if the first stage opens, the preparatory classes will open. So that's a positive answer. It wasn't explicitly in the manual, but that's exactly what the question came up. Besides answering him on the line, we put him in those busy questions and he's there. And now I'm saying it here. Part two. The second part concerned the situation as to whether they could go outside the campus. Yes. I'll make a note of the manuals and the bindingness of the manuals. Manuals contain parts that are clearly legally binding, or they describe the measures of the Ministry of Health. It's about the drapes, it's about other things. They contain other binding things, I mentioned it here. The moment he describes things from the Labor Code, they're the things we pulled back, even if we didn't have to. If you look, I guess, at the Austrian manual, it's there, look up the pages, there's a link somewhere else. We pulled it out of the labor code. And as I'm saying, let's be more specific. I realize that. But if we're asking for legal commitment, she's mixed up with the document. Of course, for some things, it's hygiene standards that it's going to be... but if it's there to minimize the contact, that word already suggests there's going to be some contact. Because if it were there, it would definitely have to be avoided by the wording that would probably be in a decree that would then be legally enforceable. So I'm not a lawyer, but of course there's no legal enforcement in that logic. But you mentioned one thing that I have to comment on, and that's what's being consumed by the Czech society, not by the school. Again, I don't want to be a craftsman for doctors, but as a responsibility for someone getting sick with covid-19, and the stigmatization that has taken place in some areas of the Czech Republic, it is something that we should not be afraid to label - and now I will be Cimrmanovský - as a failure, so it is simply not okay. That means somebody's gonna figure out that the student or the student got infected at the school because the separation wasn't respected, it's a matter that... Like from my point of view, yes, of course, it sounds bizarre. In addition, as I said and said, yes, even in Czech society it may appear, and appeared, stigmatizing those people who were infected with covid, even though they did not do so themselves, even though it is a highly contagious disease. That means I can't guarantee that someone here isn't gonna make it in case this case happens, and they're not gonna start dealing with it in some way. But the legal responsibility with respect, and the utmost respect for the things that are there that belong to the Ministry of Health, that is clear and binding. But from the point of view of the other things, it's hygienic, it's recommended, and if you read the manual, like I know you looked at it, there are alternatives to how to make sure if the school, like in the case of the school cafeteria, can't secure it, so there are alternatives... [[Mrs Černochová off the microphone from the rapporteur's desk.]] Yes. Unfortunately, but it's true. That means, that's the thing. And then the particular question you raised. At the beginning, I said that Czech education is extremely, extremely different. You have village schools, you have urban schools, you have schools with your own premises, you have schools in multiple buildings, and that's exactly the kind of stuff you don't get when you try harder, even if we did that manual or those manuals multivariate, taking these things into account. So, yes, the basic recommendation in that manual is to keep the kids on campus, but if I got a question -- and that's the reaction to the list. If I've been asked that the school has its own campus, it doesn't have a garden, and next to it is a forest, so it's perfectly clear from the logic of the matter, even though the manual doesn't say it, but I can't imagine if the forest is within 100 meters of the school, so I just can't write the manual like this, it's probably my fault, I'll do better for the next covide crisis, but if it's safe from the general principles, there's nothing to prevent teaching in that forest or park. The second case specific from the help line is that they have a building that's a dining room building. And the cafeteria building is 500 meters away from the school. And the headmistress herself, when she called, she asked me where you were going, she said, we're going around the clinic, and we're going downtown. Of course, at that point, the risk is higher. [[20.20 hours]] If you asked about the park, this is where I'd go back to the legal plane. At this point in the park, there is a rule of the Ministry of Health. So even if they're alone, there's some rules they have to follow, and they say there must be drapes. If it's 25. 5. it will be a rule that if the drape is kept apart it may not be necessary, of course it may change. That means there's a general rule, not a school rule. I hope I haven't forgotten anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u7	I'd like to recapitulate the applications now. Mr Klaus, just a moment, because I have four MPs registered. So Mr Jan Čižinský, then Mr Jan Hrnčíř, and then Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Lukáš Bartoň, will speak on factual points at the moment, followed by Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Lukáš Bartoň. So, on a factual point, Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to say what's really unfortunate and what may also be generating the questions. It's just wrong that we've known that date on the 25th for a while, and for example, today we've just been dealing with the nurse. That means schools wanted to be responsible, they're responsible, they asked parents both in kindergartens and primary schools if parents would send their children. Today we just set the conditions that we could have set 14 days ago because we already knew the date. And now it's round two. And that's what generates the confusion and the frustration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u9	I will now ask for a speech to Mr Jan Hrnčíř, and in the general debate, Mr Martin Baxa has been added to me as the third at this time. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, don't be mad at me, but I really think the way schools open up really contradicts common sense. We're here at a time when the coronavirus is barely spreading between children. I don't know what you're gonna do in the fall, in the winter, if there's a flu epidemic and there's really a flu - and it's basically a flu virus, even with more fatal consequences - they're gonna spread, and I don't know what the measures are gonna be after that. But a matter of fact. If we imagine that a lot of parents are home for the third month in the infirmary with children, companies have a problem because they don't have the workers. Those parents would like to send the kids to that school, but the teams aren't open. The school opens at 7:45 and the parents start work at 6:30 or 7:00. What would you advise them to do? And there aren't many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u11	Now, with another factual remark, Mrs Procházková. Please take your word for it. That is the last point in fact at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u12	I'm just de facto in front of the previous speaker. I think everyone here is trying to make things very difficult. It's completely unnecessary. The instructions are clear. The Department of Health has made some clear rules, and they're supposed to be followed. So if this guy's out of school, he's supposed to follow the general rules. The general rules just apply everywhere. And if you think they're gonna sue your parents for having kids catch a coronavirus at school or a slap in the face of school, that's bullshit. We don't know how long the incubation period is - 14 days. Who's the parent who's gonna prove that the kid caught it at the school and the gym class? That's total nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u13	Now with priority rights, the Minister and Mr Václav Klaus will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. Two reactions. First reaction to the infirmary. It's a gesture of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. Yes, of course, it would be better if the information was known earlier. From the point of view of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, this is a clear statement on the regime under which schools are closed, that from the point of view of compulsory schooling they are closed until 30. 6, therefore, it is possible to apply the special law adopted by the House, 133/2020, which was submitted by Minister Maláčová, so the information came from the Ministry of Education 29. 4. And as far as I know, in the same spirit, the MPSV communicated and used the interpretation of the Czech Social Security Administration. So if you don't mind, I consider the question to be constantly addressed by the Ministry of Education. The fact that the final solution and agreement in the House took place today - so I really put ashes on my head a lot, but I really don't feel responsible for this. But I admit, if it was announced earlier, it might remove a number of questions from the director's point of view. So, yes, I wish it had happened sooner, but we can't give it back. As for the question about the school staff, that's a frequent question. That's why the first level is conceived as a school group. This means that for the first degree there is a morning part that is teaching, and within 16 hours there is to be informal education. So it's not the group that we knew until March 11th, when the kids get in and mix, but the homogeneous group of those 15 pupils - which is not my invention, but the thing that's used in a number of countries, and it's the requirement of epidemiologists - so it stays in the same composition from that eight in the morning, or from that morning until that afternoon. That means, even the service to get back to work, so that there's afternoon babysitting or informal education, it's affected in the methodologies and in the concept. But you're right, it's not called a school group, but it's a concept of a school group, an emergency name that combines the morning educational part and the afternoon part of informal education, de facto and partially guarded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u15	Now another point of fact, Mr Klaus, you will have to wait, and it is Mrs Jana Černochová. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u16	I'd just restock the minister. It's like he said. I've read the manual several times. I would just point out that these schools are struggling with a lack of educators. Because here really if there are two permanent educators to be on a 15-member group, so if you also add to it those educators who can't get on for reasons of simply objective, health and so on, and who are doing online teaching, you're really on the floor and you're gonna hire everyone, including the teammates. And even so, sometimes they don't get the educators. Maybe we've been doing this a long time with our directors, our teachers. And here's the problem: neither the faculty nor other schools will help us, because they would have to have a contract with the relevant school. It can't be dealt with, and it's okay, after all, it's people who are supposed to take care of the kids and have to have some education for it, and it has to be people who are proven. But I'm just pointing out here that these schools are really getting into personnel distress, Mr. Secretary, because those people, thanks to the division, capable, willing to teach them, are unfortunately not enough. It is also because the age average in our schools is higher and unfortunately many of these educators actually have objective health reasons and are worried about their lives. So, where the enlightened self-government works, they're gonna equip the educators with shields. We may have equipped our educators with shields to make them feel safe. So I think that maybe it's also an incentive for the Minister of Health to try to distribute shields to our schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u17	With priority rights, the Minister and Mr Václav Klaus will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u18	Thank you. Quick reaction. I'll start by thanking you. Yes, the schools, and it's given that, for many years, have their founders, and if they have enlightened founders, the cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Director works perfectly. And this is really different from the municipality, the founder from the founder. That means the role of the founder is very important. And if there's a connection between the founder and the director, it's always better. It doesn't mean that I'm throwing anything at the founder, but just because there's some money coming out of the budget tax system, it's always got to play the orchestra together, otherwise it doesn't add up. So thanks again for that. As for those educators, I can only agree with you. After all, this only confirms the extraordinary investigation that we did last year as the Ministry of Education and where it was established that the age average of Czech educators is 47.2 years and teachers will not receive. So it's a thing that was named before the coronation. And it happens that the crises usually show all the problems even more crystallized and in full nudity than in those times normal. This means, as far as schools and their readiness for online education are concerned, the jump shift - and for that it really belongs to directors and teachers thanks - was due to the coronation. And I remember someone telling us that if we think we're going to adjust ICT standards so that modern technology can be used in conventional subjects, let's forget that it's just part of a special subject, and it's not supposed to be part of geography, chemistry and physics. I'm not saying everyone said that, but it was the first reaction from the field to when we wanted to introduce it today. And it's a great reaction, many of these people just use it. [[20.30 hours]] In the field of protection of teachers, respectively. The faculty of teachers, we are aware of this, because we as the Ministry of Education did this investigation, which is why the concept of the school group assumes that there may not always be a teacher there and under all circumstances, because yes, there will also be a situation where 20 out of 25 children will return, respectively. almost all of them will return, and then it is necessary to divide it into two groups, and at that point we talk about it in different ways - and it is organisationally difficult for the director to solve it in order to cover it with pedagogical assistants and in the afternoon part for example the tutors and other pedagogical staff they have at school. It's an emergency situation, and I see the 15-member group system as a transition system to prevent the possible spread of the epidemic and, of course, it's a complication of the organisation of teaching, and that's why we came to disperse there, and it doesn't say that there must be a teacher under any circumstances, because it can't be doubled or broken, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u19	Now I have a factual point, so Mr Jan Hrnčíř and Mr Václav Klaus will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, but I didn't get the answer to the question I asked. Those parents who are home for the third month with the baby are worried they're gonna lose their job, they want to put the baby to school, they want to go to work, but schools just open at 7:45, and he has to go to work an hour early. So what are they supposed to do? I'd like to get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u21	Another point of fact, Mr Radek Koten, so far I have just this one application. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u22	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, through Mr President, I would like to add this question, because the teaching, whether it is a kindergarten or a kindergarten, takes place only until 12 hours, and if the parent takes the child to school at 7.45, he should pick it up at 12, so how is he supposed to work eight-hour working hours under these conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u23	Thank you. You can address the Minister directly. Now with the factual remark of Mrs Jana Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u24	I, in response to my colleague, Mr Hrnčíř, by your means. Every school, every principal can determine when the kids are going to get into school. This isn't meant to be strict anywhere. In Prague 2 we have one of the primary schools which starts teaching at 9 o'clock. It's London Elementary. So this is really in the jurisdiction of the competent director. It might be appropriate to inform the founder, but it is possible and many directors use it. You know, we've been dealing with practical things about how to measure the temperature for children, how to divide them into groups in front of the school, so that there isn't one big lump, so even some groups will have gradual onsets. We're acting in a provisional state, the directors can't accommodate everyone. At least in our number two, when they ask if they're pre-interested, parents can even agree that they'd prefer to get in at some point. Wherever possible, the directors are trying to accommodate, but this, what the colleague said here, is probably not directed at the Minister, but rather to the founder and the relevant director.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u25	Mrs Věra Procházková will now make a point of fact. I don't have another application for de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u26	I'll just fill in my previous speaker. If the founder can't do it, the parent can talk to his employer, and that's possible for the moment so he can excuse him and get to work later. That's also the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u27	I will now ask Mr Václav Klaus to speak and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u28	That's how I got there. Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u29	I'll get my order, yes, please. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u30	I see the rapporteur defends the minister more fiery than he defends herself. I'd give my performance a little bit in person. Mr. Plaga, you're a good man, yeah. I mean it honestly and without irony. You're also a constitutional official, and now there's a crisis, and that requires a decision. And I honestly believe that the decisions at the core are two. Either the kids are in school, they're learning and there's a normal regime going on, or we're worried there's gonna be mutated zombies running around and we're all gonna die, and that's why we're gonna shut down the schools. I don't think this interstate of yours leads to anything, and that is - what scientific evidence you have for the measures that are being introduced, that my daughter Eliška can only go to the bathroom in an even minute, not an odd one, and she has to sit in the dining room before she finishes any more, etc. You don't have the slightest scientific data for this, the reason for this is that 15 children, or 18, or 12, are safe and the whole class of 24 children is dangerous. Your attitude that you don't want doesn't have to mess with anyone, because part of your parents desperately wants to go to work, wants to make money, but again, there's a part of the population that's still very scared and doesn't open windows, well, that's politics or fish or coffin. So just you are responsible for the quality of education in the Czech Republic, so let's face it. You guys are gonna spend the rest of your life banging some nuances on this and that, but in principle. So now there are 2,000 sick people in the Czech Republic, most of which are in some kind of quarantine, so the probability that someone is sick in that group of children is absolutely minimal, or in the vast majority of schools there will be one healthy child sitting next to the other, and for some mysterious reason you're preventing them from having a teacher there, learning about it, and I don't know what they're talking about in the first grade, where my Eliška is. And instead, you deliver to me as parents that you can go to school, but there won't be a teacher, there'll be a governess in the group, there's no squad, and there's a thousand, and there's one other thing that's kind of limited, and the parents, like us or my wife, they're just wondering if the baby's even gonna be sent there, if there's any point. So I'm asking you again, what data do you have for the measures you're putting in place right now, I mean scientific, epidemiological -- I don't think so -- and what's all this supposed to be about? Because what you did in those elementary schools is a total mess. Some schools are closed, some open etc. I think that the situation is really serious and that you should somehow stand up to it and make some sort of decision, and not run away here, as always, and hide behind the rapporteur here. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u31	Now I'm going to recapitulate. So with priority rights, Minister Plaga, then President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, and Mr Lukáš Bartoň and Mr Martin Baxa are in order. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u32	Thank you for the floor. Dear Member, at least for a moment I could try what you were, before you founded your own party, you could have experienced, too, which means protecting Mrs Černochová. But she was the protection of Mrs Černochová, and I would have signed it. And I don't really care that she's from another side because she's looking at it with the look of the founder, the look of someone who knows the school, who's talking to the principal and who knows what's going on in that school. I thank her for that, because what she said here is exactly how it is in real life. We were just talking about a lack of staff. The directors of our schools, and I believe them, are trying to reach out to their parents as much as possible, trying to educate their children. I believe in the good in the Czech education system and I believe in it rightly. That's why if there was a question about the party that doesn't happen in the morning, it's really not something that worked everywhere until March 11th, and you could have parked the baby at 6:30 in front of any school, virtually. Put him in the corps. It's all things that somehow unfold. And in this emergency situation, they also depend on the school's personnel capacity, and the school organizes it with the best knowledge and conscience in the situation. So that's the answer to the fact that the school has no obligation and goes as far as possible to accommodate. Yes, if you want to translate it, if it's not possible and the school can't secure it, you might as well say that someone goes to work at 6 o'clock, and you're right, and the school doesn't work at that point. That means, I say with full knowledge that in this emergency condition, if the school doesn't have the capacity to secure it in any mode from 7 o'clock, 6.30 o'clock or whatever, the parents will have to handle the five weeks themselves. It's fair to say, that's right. [[20.40 hours]] As for the reaction, I keep hearing the reservations about the data and other things, and they have one flaw. The decision that children will be after 15 and that they will be between 5 and 6 feet apart is not a decision by the Minister of Education, just as there was not a decision by the Minister of Education - and I point out you can blame me, but it is correct - that schools have closed down. Those schools weren't shutting down that they were hard to learn. Those schools were closing because there was some kind of epidemiological situation. Now the epidemiological situation is better, thank God for it, let's all thank each other - you approved these laws here in need, the government presented them, so thanks to everyone that they managed to tame the situation. But there are rules to dislodge, and the rules are not defined by Robert Plaga as Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. The rules are based on some standards. Fifteen in classrooms and a child one by one in a desk are not Czech inventions. Take screening or have it done in the various European countries as part of the parliamentary clubs. The rakušák have it after 15, the Francouz have thought about fifteen, then even ten. That means it's a compromise. When you look at the Dán opening, yes, they opened early, but they opened kindergarten and first grade, they didn't open second grade. The Němec have started since the year they're preparing for graduation. That means we're all struggling with the situation and we're giving the script and we're bailing out some kind of risk of an epidemic coming back, so that's what I'm seeing. And I will follow whether you like it or not - and you can tell me I don't have the ajfr like you, Mr. Ambassador, because few of you or us are as brave as you, and I acknowledge that I'm not as brave as you, and I want to consistently follow the fact that there is a group in charge of it at the Ministry of Health that is working with data, and I'm not going to study epidemiology now, and I'm going to make a different study at home on Saturday and Sunday, and I'm going to cross out risk groups, and I'm going to decide otherwise against this. Well, if you have these questions, put them to the Ministry of Health. It's legitimate, but I'm based on the epidemiologist's recommendations, and I'm going to continue to follow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u33	I have one point of fact here, Mr Václav Klaus, and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u34	Minister, you have answered so kindly, you cannot be attacked. Look, I've been teaching and sitting in that school for 21 years. Like the idea that these kids are three feet apart and some of these groups - it's not like that. Those naughty kids are gonna take someone's clothes off, on purpose, and they're gonna toss it, these kids are gonna team up, they're gonna have their heads on them, just like when lice spread in those schools. It's just the way it normally is. I mean, what's the big deal about half of us sitting here? Anyway, all of you who are friends are sitting at lunch without a mask, having fun, on March 16th, when we were all scared. So it's completely disconnected from reality, these measures that you're putting in place there, towards normal life, how your students work, how those schools work, and so on. I mean, these kids are looking forward to those friends, so they're gonna be together. They have a friend in B, so they run after her, no teacher can hold it. So we can talk about it, end the discussion, you can hold it, but you don't solve the real problems of the education system. I really don't. I admit you're following the Ministry of Health's instructions, but there's chaos in those schools for those people they wanted to educate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u35	I will now ask for a speech with priority right of President Marian Jurečka and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will prepare himself. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u36	Thank you. I'll just take a few notes, and I'll ask the Minister to try to pay my attention. I understand he doesn't have it easy in this situation, I don't envy his decision-making. I'll say a few moments, a lot of practical. My wife is a teacher, first grade, starting school next week. The remaining part of the class will have to be further educated through long-distance education. The problem is that not everyone has digital devices at home, available data. Sometimes even at the time of the coronavirus, it was driven from the house to the parents, because not everyone has a printer. Well, that's what these people are dealing with, teachers are self-sacrificing, they can handle a lot of things. But Minister, please, I'm thinking of another matter - if it's not worth considering a different approach to village schools, because the kids in that village are all in contact now. Everyone just goes to the playground, no one can stop it. I don't see why - I understand the different situation in cities, but village schools, especially when it's a smaller village, one to five, these kids are all among themselves today. They're locations, ORPs, districts where we don't have three or four weeks of contagion, no one at all. And I'm wondering if maybe this can't be taken into account in some way. It would make sense to me. And then the second thing, rather than thinking about it, is what will happen from September and what will eventually be from September, when a second wave comes. If it closes up again, or if you're working as a ministry with it, first of all, to strengthen the things that are missing today. As I mentioned, not every family has a tablet, not every family has a computer, not everyone has data access. Questions about how to deal with it eventually. At the same time, I would be very much in favour of improving the quality of teachers in the field of working with these technologies, presentation skills, etc. I don't want to delay this any longer, but it can happen, and I would like us to be here on October, November and discuss something similar so that the sector is prepared for it much more, because then the parents and the fact that it's hard for them when they have four, five, six children at home and they have one computer at home to exchange it. [[unintelligible]] I have families in my family who have five or six children, they go to second grade, high school, and they just run at the same time in three or four children online teaching at the same time. Those parents are not able to buy three more tablets, computers, etc. from day to day. This, too, should be resolved by the state in the future. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u37	Minister Robert Plaga will now speak with priority and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u38	Thank you for the word, thank you for the suggestion. Yes, you've opened the area - I'm not going to argue with the first part, I'm sure there are areas that at this point, and thank God for that, let's keep saying that, and I'm always saying, please, let's go back in our heads six weeks ago when we were sitting here, as we looked at this thing. Yes, it's evolving. And when you said how the second wave is going to take place, again - I'm not an epidemiologist, but I assume that all of these steps, as they are presented, are going to make the potential shutdown not complete, in no way, but to focus on the outbreak. So if I transfer it to the education sector, yes, it may happen that in the fall some of the schools or rather some of the classes will be quarantined if they return, under all these conditions, the conditional "if" thing. And here you have raised a matter that is important, and that is de facto the readiness of schools for that distant teaching that could happen, and the readiness of families for distant teaching that is happening at this time in an emergency form, that everyone had to, and that is why the partial return to the school education process and partly informal education is also motivated not only by people returning to work, but also by the fact that there are no conditions in those families, and that is why there is the presentation training. But let me be specific. We told the Czech School Inspectorate and asked the Czech School Inspectorate to conduct an investigation after it was underway and it took some time for the school directors to find out directly what the situation at the school is, what the conditions are, what they are missing and if the problem is on the family side. We have the results from the Czech School Inspectorate, which has passed over 5,000 schools and we have evaluated about 1,000 schools that have the biggest problem, and we have contacted them with an offer of help. And the help lies in the following. The one plane that will be implemented by the National Education Institute, i.e. directly managed organization of the Ministry of Education, is the support of webinars or direct interventions on how to teach online. I note that three days after the interruption of students' personal presence, we started the web at a distance of msmt.cz, where not only the tools are there, but also not only the software, but also the rules on how to teach, and we will complement it with the teaching resources. We want to continue working with this signpost, but here they will receive support from the National Educational Institute and thanks to cooperation with Teaching online, virtually. voluntary initiative of the Czech Republic. Digital, which brings together really IT experts who have already helped almost 200 schools, I suspect 187, at some date, will be back, so those schools will also be offered hardware and software assistance. That means there's people there, there's 13 organizations that are making a big effort to help those schools, that they're either installing that technique, doing it by using it, and at the same time they have over 1,000 computers that are going to be distributed to those schools, virtually. then into families. [[20.50 hours]] This programme isn't supposed to end 30. 6. and we want to continue to do so. That means, that's the answer to your question, what's next. And we start with those schools that, following the investigation of the Czech School Inspectorate that we requested, show that there is the most important problem, that is, the imbalance between attendance education and now distance education, or distance education that does not take place, so it is the largest. The good news, not to end the bad news, is that the vast majority of schools responded suddenly to the challenge that came up, responded perfectly and remotely to various forms of teaching with different applications. And I'm going to point out one thing that often fits: what decides for those schools about success and successful deployment is not some instruction from the Ministry of Education or the deployment of a single application for the whole republic, but that those schools immediately started communicating or very quickly started communicating with their parents. They found out the conditions in the particular class, not even in the school, but in the particular class, and they set the mix accordingly. If, of course, everyone had an available technique, it makes sense to do four-hour online lessons there. If half of the children do not have the technique, it is only worth sending tasks via email and combining it with some occasional online courses, lessons, meeting or consulting Skype or any other individual students. This means schools that were able to set this mix were very successful and started to meet the real situation in families. But we have this particular instrument and it is designed and implemented, now running even with a view of if there is a need for some part of the system in the future, virtually. some class or school to quarantine for a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u39	I will now ask Mr Lukáš Bartoň to speak and Mr Martin Baxa and Mr Jiří Mihola will be prepared. So, three applications so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u40	Thank you. We had a big debate today on the school committee, where we discussed a lot also special schools. And for that attitude, Minister, to rethink perhaps those special schools, so thank you for that. However, I would like to ask about the health criteria you receive from the Ministry of Health. You probably get them in writing - could they be published? Mr. Secretary, could you publish the health criteria you're getting? They're pretty clear to somebody. Maybe Mrs. Procházková is clear, they're not clear to me, I'm not a doctor. And I'm sure it would be good if we knew them, if even the teachers knew what the target was. If the goal is that children are to be airborne and not meet citizens, then we do not have to deal with whether they should be on their own property or on a foreign property. At the same time, I would also be interested in a health criterion that allows up to 28 children in kindergarten, a maximum of 15 children in first grade and none in second grade - except ninth grade. As for the 15-member groups, it was actually said by Mrs Černochová. Where there is a shortage of personnel, according to your methodological guidelines, the Director is supposed to set criteria for choosing children who can go to those 15-member groups. But those criteria are purely for school principals. And even school directors here need some advice not to set criteria that are discriminatory. Can such a criterion be the age of a child? Can the family's background be such a criterion? That's what some people do. Or does it have to be a criterion that he has to draw lots? This isn't the material, the manual doesn't contain it. At the same time, the very second extreme, and that's when they have personnel security, they have personnel security to cover the first grade of primary school, and actually the ministry, or those criteria forbid them to open a 15-member group at the second level. Why? If they comply with all health criteria, all health claims as well as the first degree, why couldn't they open at the second stage if they have personnel security to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u41	Mr Martin Baxa will now appear and Mr Jiří Mihola will be the last to be prepared at the moment. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u42	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, I do not actually want to discuss on this occasion some implementing details of the current school opening manual or manuals. Our city is setting up 30 primary schools, over 40 kindergartens, and of course we are having a hard time fighting this, but I trust our directors to deal with this situation in some way, and I am not dealing with any details. They are experienced practitioners who have had to deal with these situations. However, I am convinced that the fundamental problem that has now arisen by this Ministry procedure is the chaos that is currently taking place and which has three planes that need to be said here. It is chaos that must be solved by individual schools, because the organisation of teaching in the form that is predestined by their manuals is - I used the word teaching, but it is a stay of limited number of children in school, which is like a special cat; Something between babysitting, something between some educational activity and something between informal education. And while, Minister, I understand your argument that you're building it, that there's no other way to do it, we just need to describe it openly what this means. Just limited groups of children, which often find it very difficult to reach these schools, will spend some time there. And the question is whether it's meaningful or not. And I'm thinking, "No, and that elementary schools should be more radical." The other group is the situation of the pupils themselves, who are on the one hand exposed - they have to deal with long-distance education for weeks now, some of them will continue for weeks, others will not be in those schools. It is even a question of whether those who come from families who can provide them with better conditions will not actually be better off in the long-distance education because they will be going through some more systematic education while those who are in those 15-member groups in the schools, as I have already said, will somehow reside there. And by the way, this system doesn't solve what I think is a big problem today. It's that kids just need school. They need to stay at school for some social, psychosocial, psychological reasons. Kids just miss friends, no matter what age they're in. And while I'm a teacher myself, for almost 20 years, I've been teaching at high school, so I'm pretty sure the blackouts in education will catch up with the kids somehow. Some are worse, some are better, but the question is, how for those small children that six months out of the regime, the collective, the socializing environment will have some impact on them. And in what you say, Minister, and what the Ministry of Education says, I do not see the goodwill to help these children in any way from this point of view. The third problem is the status of parents, even today, after the final decision that we have called for so much, as far as the infirmary is concerned, they are getting more clear. But again, some parents call for more schools to open up, and they repeat the reasons and so on. So, Minister, I'm sure that May 25th, the first grade of primary schools will open up, that the system will be cumbersome, but it will start. After all, what is left for those schools, directors, teachers and us as founders, we simply have to adapt to it. We've also bought all the resources for schools, etc., but I'm not sure it's the right thing to do. So I just need to say it here. The arguments have already been recapitulated here - no epidemiological evidence has been submitted, etc., I have mentioned this several times. But I really don't think the hybrid condition is right. And I just want to point out that I am no longer calling for secondary schools to open up in a similar way, because there is a rapid set of exams that they will have to pass at these schools, state graduations, uniform entrance exams, profile exams, final exams, it would be very difficult to do that. At the same time, high school students have easier access to long-distance education than children in primary school. [[21.00 hours]] I understand, Minister, why you're defending the system here. It was created on the basis of some kind of consultation and so on. But I actually lack a bit of reflection about the fact that it has really serious shortcomings, or I would even say that it is legitimate that I and some other colleagues are calling here to see if we are still, even if the time is very short, not to consider a variant of a more general opening of primary schools. I think it would be useful. And I want to point out here that the option should just be on the table and it should be discussed. I will add, even if this point is called reopening primary schools, that I simply consider the bad situation of children taking uniform entrance exams. We have discussed the subject of the second terms that we have failed to convince you in those weeks to consider reviewing this matter. But there may also be seeming details in quotation marks of the type that primary schools opened up on 11 May to consult pupils of the ninth grade, i.e. those who are doing a uniform entrance exam for four-year grammar school and other types of secondary school education, but simply for reasons that I don't think were publicly mentioned, pupils of the seventh and fifth classes who are taking examinations for six-year and eight-year grammar school were dismissed. And maybe they're small groups, but it may be all the more important for these kids, the things they want to discuss with the teacher, the opportunity to do so. And the teachers are doing a great job. My parents are now engaged in long-distance education. But I have to say, from the children in my family, from others, I'm just often hearing this simple, simple sentence: the teacher or the teacher will explain it, we'll understand it easier from them. Notaben, it's so important for those children of the fifth and seventh grade who are really small, and for them the uniform entrance exam is even more difficult than for those who are in primary school or for those seniors. I have no question, Minister. I thought it was important to give my opinion here. Perhaps there should be an explanation as to why the seventh graders can't go to primary schools at least for consultation. Those fifth graders can get there. But why can't at least the seventh graders taking their six-year studies there? So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u43	Have a good night. That was my colleague, Baxa. Now, my colleague Mihola has joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u44	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. First of all, I'm gonna call on my previous speakers here. I am happy to say what my colleague Václav Klaus said by means of you that you are a good man, but you have some responsibility. And there's no small responsibility. And I'm also in a number of things, and my club has supported you in your maths, and now I support you in your maths again. If some people don't want to do it, I say they should run normally. So we agree on a number of things. And unfortunately, not in a lot of things either. I am unfortunately referring to what Václav Klaus also said that there is chaos in education now. I'm saving up with those words. And I understand a difficult situation. In a way, chaos is everywhere, Minister. But I'll open my computer, my e-mails, my Facebook and more. From this, you would quickly know what people point to, what they are asking. I understand that some of these psychic colleagues may be very clear about everything and take it all exactly on the line. But apparently it's not, just because these people are asking. And they don't ask for one. Those are really dozens, maybe hundreds of questions, misunderstanding vouchers, vague thesis, things that are being scrambled by the public. I would also like to say that, perhaps I do not have to do that through Mr President, Mr President Jurečka, in the sense that not only rural children like to unite. Even in town. Even in town. And when I point out the need for more rapid relaxation in education, as my colleague Baxa said through you here a moment ago, I rely on the fact that it is taking place in general very quickly, unexpectedly quickly, and pay the lord of rapid relaxation, or that the situation has improved significantly, significantly. I'm really happy for you. And I don't know why education should fall behind. And the minister here very often swordsmen the word epidemiologist. I'll take it. I'd always lean on experts first, too. But I had, and judge for yourself, colleagues, I had the impression that such a key word, or one of the main words, was Professor Prymula. And he made it clear that the risk in schools is very small, almost none of which concerns infection and distribution. So I would really choose the path of faster dislodgement with a certain risk. There's always a risk. And if one pandemic or epidemic goes away, a new one might come. And we should probably get ready for that. And I'm a little sorry for the Minister, as I may have commended him on one side, so I'm sorry the Minister doesn't answer. He doesn't answer often. Some things he didn't answer to the committee. Some things are not responding to the House. He doesn't answer open letters either. And I'm not just speaking for myself, but it just comes from more sides. And I think it's wrong that this communication is just the basis, and besides, it's a certain decency. And, you know, it's often such constructive questions or comments in that sense, we all know that the pandemic can come back. They have concerns in a number of countries. Maybe in the fall. I don't want to call it in so someone can tell me that I prophesied... The Black Prophet. No. But he really can come. Or something new will come up. And now, I don't know if you know, or if you don't know, we don't have any support in the school bill or that distance education for primary schools. We don't. For high school, yes, for primary school, no. So I suggested it on the committee. And I understand that, semantically, the resolution might have been better, I would have taken my advice, but most importantly, I thought the Minister would take his place and say, in the nearest school law, I'd sort it out. I think we could all support that. But at the end of the day, I feel like we're gonna have to do this again at the last minute when someone reminds or criticizes it when we have to deal with something like that again. I don't know why. Because I think from the beginning of the epidemic, we should have been preparing for those steps that would happen next, and we need to be getting ready now, if ever, and I'm pointing out, God, something like this has happened to us again, because we just can't rule it out. We've been talking about the SATs. And the minister already looks at me as a difficult insect, because I've probably been on my knees for the tenth time, but I've been making most of it here when I was talking about graduating exams in high school, so I really asked him, begged him, so I'm not kneeling before him, but I really intercede for students and my parents for the eleventh or the sixteenth time, because I'm convinced. It's not stupid for them to have the same conditions when they can have them. We're dealing with the laws here, now it's been a few tens of minutes, we're gonna solve the complicated law here in a few tens of minutes, and now we've got a month till those SATs. And do you think anyone would be angry if they knew he had two dates again, as it has been so far? Definitely not. On the contrary, perhaps they would have picked up the minister's joy to heaven. So I don't understand why we're not doing this. Those measures can be done much easier on the entrance exams than anything else. So it might as well go to the schools where these people go to those schools, and it would be even easier. So things could even be simplified. But there is no goodwill. [[21.10 hours]] So did our appeal institute. These people are gradually figuring it out, and the great excitement and anger is yet to come. I've reminded the minister many times, last time on the school committee today. And I'm very sorry that President Okamura isn't sitting here anymore, I'd say that with his diction, because it was on the committee when we voted on it that the coalition of YES, SPD, KSČM sunk it. - President Okamura is here. Sorry, I thought you'd left because I was invited here by the President of the KSČM. I'm sorry, Mr President, but I wanted to remind you of this - this coalition: YES, SPD, KSČM, then write it down somewhere, because you will see that there is really great excitement about it. These conditions are not equal. And they're not equal, I also told the minister, because the number is limited to 15. So when some schools are preparing, folks, for those entrance exams, and they're like that, you'll find it on the web: we're preparing Czech, math - but it's for 15 people. For the 15 first ones to sign up. What would you do as a parent of those who didn't make it? Would you say, "it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay." I don't think so. So even for this reason, I'm particularly drawing attention to these entrance exams, and I think the Minister still has the option, he has it in his hands, and we can't catch up with the law, even though it's submitted, but we're still in an emergency, so we just can't discuss it right now. I believe the Minister has it in his hands as well as the school bill and the distance education we may need. Finally, colleagues, I would like to say - because there is something that Mr Mihola says here, and the Minister is already shaking his head and his eyes are on top of his head, as they say, I have found a live story like one of many, and I'm sure you have seen similar ones on social networks. So the school has already released information on how to teach after 25. 5. To begin with, I wanted to return the children at first grade to school as soon as possible for many reasons. First of all, I don't feel that the Covid-19 situation is going to change until September. Secondly, children are probably the least endangered group. Third, children need socialization. Fourthly, I assume compulsory schooling is not self-serving. However, the conditions set by the Ministry and implemented by the school discourage me. And I don't think it's the school's fault that just works with the resources it has. - And now he's talking about coming to school sometime between 7:30 and later, leaving between 11:30 and 4:00, that he can choose, but if he's working full-time, as it's legal, eight plus thirty minutes mandatory pause, a trip from work, to work and so on, they need to pick up the baby at 17. Children will be in groups not according to classes, but according to the desired departure, across the years. A teacher or assistant will help children perform tasks that they would otherwise get at home. - Cool. My kid's homework is done in an hour. I want to know what the rest of the time is gonna do at school. If they go ahead, what will they do there in September 2020? In addition, my children, seven and ten years, are a group and specific friends an important part of the motivation to go to school. I don't know how they're gonna put up with a new temporary collective. Having drapes in class - two a day, great. How much will the spread of the virus moderate if the children breathe half a day through, rather around a breathed drape? A proper ventilation might do you a better service. When entering the class, they have 30 seconds to wash their hands, the sink is one in the class, a distance of two meters means that there can only be one child in one time, so they really spend ten minutes of each class washing their hands. Lunches are probably cold. And a conjecture to conclude. Following the judicial annulment of the Ministry of Health's regulation on 27. The 4th government has not renewed the ban on assembly. And even if they do, I can hardly keep the kids from meeting after school, especially when I'm at work and they need to go home alone. I'm not gonna read the message to the minister and the government, and so on, the evaluation isn't entirely positive, so I'm really gonna pass because it wasn't my goal. In the given context, I think, the writer concludes that I will leave the children at home and continue home teaching, which, by the way, is significantly more effective, and the children are growing before my eyes. And the children will mingle in parks, apartments where unchangeable groups will definitely not be preserved. However, poor children from socially disadvantaged localities. So here's one of the many authors of such similar statuses, where, as you can see, it's not sold superficially in one sentence, that this is bullshit and that's how it was supposed to be. I understand that there are always many generals, but it could serve to think about it. And so I'm leaning either, or, you know, to quickly relax, take a chance, and really make sense of it, and it applies to everyone, with exceptions, of course, when someone is sick, whether a child or have parents, who would really put them at great risk, but those situations are clear. There's no need to mention that explicitly. Or let's keep it closed, let's say, just in case, and let's believe that there's nothing in the fall, and let's leave it on-line teaching and everything online and they'll all have the same conditions. But really, that inter-step, just a smart-ass hobby style, isn't right for everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u45	I now have one application for a factual comment - rapporteur Jana Černochová. The Minister will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u46	I apologize to colleagues who have endured here who voted in good faith that we will get some information from the Minister here that did not come out of the manual. We got the information, and I'm sorry that we're still here, because unfortunately, there are colleagues among us who are using it to repeat the tenth things they said somewhere. It wasn't my ambition. I wanted us to actually deal with the actual things that our principal is interested in here. And I'm sorry if I'd known this was gonna happen, I would have gone around the club YES to support my proposal to act by nine. I just don't like it. The point is called the reopening of primary schools, and this debate is going on here from Šumava to Tatras, including reading "Over the letters of spectators."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u47	Minister Robert Plaga, so far the last logged in, will now speak with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u48	Thank you for the floor. I will respond factually to what Mr Bartoň said, with the fact that the children's capacity does not fit into those schools. That's why, in order to be possible if it wasn't just the 15th grade, but the whole class, it was considered between the first degree or the second degree. That was the thought. And that I wish, and I really said those things a hundred times, but I'm willing to repeat them after the hundredth time, not towards you, but overall, even if it's really, I'd say it's tiring, but it's worth saying it. This means that I want them to return to their second degree in June in at least some voluntary mode. And that means I'm sensing that the kids and the students should at least meet. You may have a thousand reservations that it will no longer be about education, I admit, in the month of June, who was and still remembers what is going on at school in June, so no, but yes, it's in the dispersal scenario from the very beginning, I wish. And yes, there may be a situation in the Czech Republic that, for capacitive reasons, there will be no room for first degree, but that is also the answer to that, if they remain valid, and I know that you are constantly questioning the parameters of the Ministry of Health, and if the parameters and requirements for those 15-member homogeneous groups pass away, then of course it would be different, but if this requirement, I did not invent it, is not unique in Europe and is given there, then it is not a smart hobby, and half. But take it that would really be the easiest thing to do if I said that by 30. 6. It won't open, we'll give you an official graduation, I'd have a bronze statue from the grad students, and I'd probably be hated by half the population, and the other half would applaud me. That's how we try to find a balance solution, so you let me get it from the left, from the right and use the words, and it's not meant to most of you, but one of you might find yourself there, from the speakers: it's easy to have an opinion, said Professor Konvalinka when you have no responsibility. [[21.20 hours]] So, yes, it's my decision, and a lot of these things are backed up by epidemiologists. I'll repeat it after two hundred and eighty-six. I appreciate, Mr Mihola, that you would do it in a completely different way if you were in my position, and I firmly believe that once you are in the position of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, you will not be faced with this situation, which is facing the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy, and I don't think of you as him. But I will define myself against what you said about noncommunication. We've been talking to each other recently on all kinds of forums, in the media and on the school committee. You keep asking the same questions, and I answer them. I answer them now. Your mantra about the non-communication of the Ministry of Education or unclear instructions is simply a mantra false and let me clearly disprove it. The release schedule is set. The information is being communicated. I said it here in the opening words, and I will repeat it in my final words. We've said a term on how the release is going to take place, and I'm holding that term. The distribution between the waves is 14 days. From an epidemiological point of view, the ten days incubation period is the most standard. That's why he's been there for 14 days. You yourself talked about it, or some of the previous speakers, that there is a staff shortage in schools. So I guess that's why we're having fun from the point of view of class capacities, while keeping the 15-year-olds, which I repeat again, are not the rule that I would suck out of my finger, it's like this, and of course everyone would like it to open up. But please stop blaming the Ministry of Education and me specifically for non-communication, or I'm really gonna let you get off on your media performances, and I'm gonna let you get off on the consistency of those statements. And the fact that you read one e-mail here makes me smile in the context of being 25. 5. can return to the first stage five times more than 100,000 children. That means you're gonna be reading the other 568,000 emails from the parents? Or are you gonna pull out an e-mail that suits you, and you're gonna make a rule out of this anecdotes? I might as well be in control, and I'm not gonna do that with the CEOs' reactions, and most of all, there's a silent majority of directors trying to deal with these rules. From my point of view, if I could make rules that would suit everyone and tailor them to each school, whether rural or urban, I would. But please look back into your mind as you have approached the situation over the past eight weeks as you have experienced the feelings of watching the yellow frames on the tape of Czech Television 24, where the numbers of the dead have been going on in Europe, and if you feel that we are out of all this because the numbers are now going well here, take a study from Germany against Mr Primula's words that says that shutting down schools was a key, key argument, according to the Němec study, to keep the epidemic from spreading in Germany. And if you're in that place, make bold decisions. I, if you find them brave enough, it's your legitimate right to think so. I stand by my decisions, the Ministry of Education and the recommendations of epidemiologists. Thank you for this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u49	Now, with Mr Lukáš Bartoň's factual remark, Mr Jiří Mihola will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u50	I thank the Minister for his reply, at least partially. I certainly never questioned the criteria that you have from health care, I never questioned whether there are 15, power, etc., but all I wanted is whether you can publish the criteria that you receive from the Ministry of Health - all of them. Or are they already published in all your methodological manuals?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u51	Mr. Jiří Mihola will now appear. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u52	Well, I have to respond first to Mrs. Černochová. I find it really unfair if she's satisfied that she's been answered, and that's it. The rest of us can probably go home! So that's how she imagines discussing the important issue of the citizen's democrat! I am really very sorry to hear that, even though we agreed with a colleague from her side and others and we applied to the same things. So I don't think I've been out of line. I'm also sorry about the Minister. I think I can compliment him. I have already made it clear here that in many ways I have supported you, Minister, and you are pushing me - please, do I have to get that log out so you can see what you're talking about, what you're accusing me of here, and what I'm talking about? Well, I'll tell you at least on a dry note. I was talking about the Minister not being able to answer an open letter not only to me or to the Deputy Ombudsman. It's a fact. It's after three weeks. Is that okay, colleagues? If I do, if I have to wait two more months, okay, I'll wait. I thought, after all, a person could get a quicker answer on a serious matter, even if it was very brief. Sorry I took the liberty of saying that after three weeks. First of all. And secondly, on the committee, here are the colleagues who were there - your colleague Černochová was not there, so she cannot judge. So that's where I was talking about the school bill and the online teaching. Is there a solution? Are we gonna deal with this? It's just, no, the wording wasn't quite good. No, that's not how I support it. Okay. I respect that opinion. Sorry I opened it up again when I think we might need it again. So if I've delayed too much, either the Member or the Minister, in these serious matters, I'm sorry, but I think it was point-to-point, unlike many completely distant things. I hope the MP will be just as strict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u53	Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Černochová will speak. Wait a minute! Minister Robert Plaga will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u54	I would respond to my colleague Mihola, the Christian Democrat. You used that point like you did! Here's the debate and the title of that point, read it - I assume as a Christian Democrat you can understand the text: Information from Minister Plaga on the reopening of primary schools. The fact that you guys are just dealing with some internal issues that you have with the Minister is your fight. Why wasn't I on the school committee? Because I'm not a member of the school committee! And I had a defense committee this morning, so even if I wanted to come to the school committee as a guest, I couldn't make it! So please stop training me here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u55	Mr. Jiří Mihola will now appear and then Minister Robert Plaga will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u56	Madame, you, by your means, Mr President, were not evident when we tried to place a point of the very same name twice last week. Unfortunately, unsuccessfully, one last vote. It was the same point that asked for information on the opening of schools. And they're tied to that - of course we can keep branching out, but the subject is clear and I've been sticking to it, so please don't take my place, you! You're not a teacher, so I'm sure you're a lot further off than I am!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u57	Minister Robert Plaga will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, despite all that has happened here tonight, I would like to thank you, for being able to express myself here about how we approach - and I had another opportunity to explain the procedure, explaining to some that it is not the Education Minister, who closes and opens the school, that the Minister of Education, whether he wants or not, when we have an epidemic, must, if at least a little bit reasonable, and I believe that I am, following the recommendations of epidemiologists, and therefore, although those questions may have been unpleasant, it has been bumpy, I thank you and wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u59	That was the last performance so far. Yes, but I also have to formally finish here, if anyone would like to comment on anything else, such as the motion for a resolution. So I'm ending the general debate if no one's checking in. I wonder if you're interested in final words. Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] The rapporteur? The rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u60	I would just like to thank all my colleagues here, colleagues and colleagues, and I would also like to thank the Minister, because in my opinion he answered our questions in a very factual and clear manner today, and the school directors who are due on that great D-day on the 25th will appreciate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u61	Is the minister interested in the final word? You don't. So we will proceed to the debate in detail. I am asking if you are interested in speaking in a detailed debate. It does, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u62	I do not, nor do I have any motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-13-ps2017-048-01-003-003.u63	So I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? It's not, so I'm ending this point. I'm ending the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and I wish you a good evening.
