ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u1	51. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and some other laws / House print 910/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. However, I will ask the players of the previous point to release the table. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, everyone else. We have launched another point, and please the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, to state this government bill. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Very briefly. We're in the second reading of the government package for 2021. If we just look at the amendments that have been tabled in large quantities, a large number, I would perhaps just recall what was the basic content of the tax package, as the Ministry of Finance has submitted, as approved by this government and how it came to the Chamber of Deputies. It contained, in particular, the amendment to the Local Charges Act, where it extended, changed the existing exemption of hospitalised persons to exemption from the subject matter of the fee. There is then an amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act, where it proposes to extend the power of municipalities to establish a local coefficient and to allow them to set a local coefficient for each part of the municipality. This is the possibility for municipalities to raise property tax on business entities without raising tax on citizens. Then there is the bill on income taxes, which I consider to be very important, which extends the tax advantage to eating, when it introduces a so much discussed meal voucher, where it preserves current benefits either in the form of food stamps or racing meals, but at the same time, it introduces a cash meal voucher for the same tax advantage. Then the exemption, which applies to income arising from bonds issued abroad by a taxpayer based in the Czech Republic, is abolished and a new tax rule is introduced for controlled foreign companies, which responds to the commitment made by the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU. [[17.20 hours]] Furthermore, the amendment to the Income Tax Act contains one temporary measure related to the occurrence of coronavirus, where there is an extension of the possibility to recognise the taxable amount of taxpayers' income tax as well as the costs incurred for the free non-cash transactions provided between March and May 2020 in relation to the occurrence of coronavirus, because the reason is to support the simplification of the taxpayer's administration. It also contains an amendment to the law on budgetary rules, an amendment to the budgetary rules on territorial budgets, where it allows the organisational bodies of the State to provide a financial contribution to their meals and their staff. In 2021, 2022, 2023, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act also proposes a gradual increase in the rates of excise duties on tobacco products, raw tobacco, from heated tobacco products. Then there is technical regulation, amendment to the law on mandatory marking of alcohol and amendment of customs law, as well as amendments to other laws outside the Georges of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, there are a number of amendments that I suppose we will be having a debate in the next legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. We have a resolution at our disposal as House Press 910/1. The rapporteur for the budget committee, Miloslava Vostrá, is ready. I'd like to inform you about the committee meeting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, as has already been said here, the Committee on Budgets discussed this proposal at its meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 9 September 2020 and adopted a resolution on it which, if you will allow me, I will partially read here. First of all, following the opening words of the Deputy Minister of Finance, following the report and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, the Parliament's Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government's draft law amending the laws on taxes and certain other laws be approved by the House's press 910, as amended by the amendments adopted. There are also about eight amendments, which are on eight pages in their scope. If there isn't a request from the diaper, I would, if you don't mind, refer to the written material you have, which is the budget committee resolution, and I wouldn't read it. If, of course, there is any objection, I will literally familiarise myself with the wording of the amendments adopted to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Mr Jan Řehounek is the first member of the general debate, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u6	Mr President, Minister, I would like to introduce you, colleagues, to a simple amendment, which I would like to make here in the general debate, and then I would like to sign up for it in a detailed debate. This is actually about the collection, transport, sorting or supply of municipal waste. The amendment is in the system under the number of House document 6216. And it is so that I would like to add to this tax package the matters relating to waste management, where we would actually be, to Annex 1, the following point 12 is inserted after point 11: "collection, transport, sorting or supply of municipal waste, including related services'. Why is that? The point is that the current legislation of Law No 235/2004 causes double taxation in the area of municipal waste management, thereby coming into conflict with the EU's intention. The point is that, on the one hand, municipalities are not considered taxable persons in connection with activities or transactions in which they act as public authorities, even if they levy fees, contributions or payments in connection with such activities or transactions. On the other hand, if, in fact, this treatment would lead to a significant distortion of competition, they are, in fact, considered taxable persons. The point is that the municipality may operate this waste management either separately, or through a waste company which may be owned by municipalities or associations of municipalities, through a private waste company, but also services for municipalities may also be provided by authorised persons, operators of waste facilities. In addition, the municipality may, under the waste management system for citizens, either levy a municipal waste charge on the basis of a generally binding decree issued under a separate jurisdiction, or may levy a local waste management fee under a special law on local charges or, where appropriate, on the reimbursement of waste management by natural persons under a contract. In some of the above cases, the VAT scheme for municipalities is ambiguous and leads to various application of VAT in practice. Therefore, if we were to include the collection, transport, sorting or supply of municipal waste, including related services, in Annex 1 to Act 235/2004, we would unite the tax regime for all operators on the market. So that's the short explanation. And then I will come forward formally in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u7	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will now appear. Mrs Nevludová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, let me, too, present some amendments. These amendments are essentially responding to some of the embedded amendments by the coalition. I must say that this tax package, thanks to the amendments tabled by Mr Babiš and Mr Hamáček, has become a kind of tax package that really overshadows even an elderly evergreen such as a meal breaker. And I think that, as Mr Babiš's amendment has been tabled or presented, other governments will indeed carry on their shoulders, as well as other generations. First of all, I have to say that a few months ago or a year ago, no one would have doubted that the abolition of a super-gross wage was a good step. After all, most political parties have the currency of abolishing a supergross wage or taxing a supergross wage in their programs. The government had it in its programming statement, and it hesitated over the years, and it was only at a moment that was not quite suitable for such a solution. I must say that Mr Babiš's amendment has two levels. The first plane is that it loosens the rules of budgetary responsibility in a very fundamental way, after the coalition has approved, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the dissolution of budgetary rules for 2021 to 4 percent of GDP - sorry, in 2020 - and for 2021, it proposes an amount, respectively, of 4,5 percent of GDP. And what Mr Babiš has put forward has a fatal effect, and could have a fatal effect, when the abolition of the taxation of the supergross wage would increase the structural deficit, up to 6 percent of GDP, precisely in this proposal. And the subsequent consolidation of public finances would thus take a completely different course. The original limit of one percent should only be reached on the proposal of this amendment in 2031, and, of course, in this case, there is a risk that we would have reached the threshold of the debt brake better in 2027. What is completely incomprehensible and incredible, however, is that the government has approved the state budget for 2021, or a proposal which does not, however, count on the abolition of the taxation of the supergross wage. That's the first mistake. [[17.30 hours]] The second complaint we have is that it is Mr Babiš who is trying to take such a fundamental step with the amendment, and this is another disbanding of the rules of budgetary responsibility, which we consider completely irresponsible, and, among other things, the proposal itself... by means of an amendment such a fundamental proposal as the abolition of a super-gross wage is also given by the amendment and did not go through the standard legislative process. The same could be said of Mr Hamáček's proposal. And I must say that the coalition is really throwing different amendments into the House as on the running belt. But what is very important to us and what we cannot definitely agree with is what impact would be the abolition of the supergross wage, virtually. the taxation and reduction of income tax to 15 per cent had public finances. The state would lose more than 55 billion by this step. Crowns. And then we have to ask where the government's gonna get the money if it's gonna be such a huge slump. Where's he gonna get money for hospitals, where he's gonna get money for traffic services, schools, stuff like that? Another essential condition and impact of this measure would be that municipalities and regions will lose almost 29 billion. Crowns. Villages by 20, county by 17 billion. The Minister often says that there is a need for municipalities and regions to invest money. But if you ask the mayors how they draw up the budget, if you ask the authorities or regional representatives how regional budgets are drawn up, there will definitely be no investment after such measures. Because it is not possible to reduce operating costs to this extent. And I think that if it wasn't for investment, then we're endangering the local economy, the development of regions, the support of small and medium-sized companies. The municipalities and regions have prepared projects and I think it would also affect the overall amount of tax revenue. For this reason, we propose that there be a change in the budgetary determination of taxes for both regions and municipalities, in such a way that there are no outages that are foreseen. That's one thing. This concerns both Mr Babiš's amendment and Mr Hamáček's amendment. In such a situation, in such a financial crisis, it is not possible for municipalities and regions to be affected. Here, please nicely, it's not the captains, it's not the mayors, but it's the projects that are meant to serve people and be invested effectively. I therefore ask you, if necessary, to support our amendments at third reading. And I'm going back to the rules on budgetary responsibility. If Mr Babiš wants to continue to loosen up the budgetary rules, which have already been set at 4%, and he wants to unwind them and increase them to 6% of GDP, that is not possible. It is indeed irresponsible, and we will therefore propose that part of its amendment be not voted at all, virtually. to be released. Another amendment that we are proposing is an amendment relating to vaccination, which aims to increase the rate of vaccination at this time and to strengthen the population's ability to deal better with infectious diseases at this time. The essence of this amendment is that the employer could apply the costs associated with the employee's vaccination to its costs. And the last amendment is the amendment by Jana Krutáková and Věra Kovářová, when we propose to the law to add a new 31st part to the Act amending the Value Added Tax Act. The proposed change consists in adding a new entry to Annex 2, namely the point of treatment of municipal waste to the further use of secondary raw material. The reason for the inclusion of this service under the first reduced VAT rate is the need to introduce support for the processing and recycling sector and thus also to contribute to the achievement of the European recycling targets resulting from the transposition directives. Ladies and gentlemen, so many general presentations of amendments by the Mayors and Independents Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u9	Thank you. There will now be two Members with priority rights. First, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who will speak on behalf of the Czech Pirate Party's MP, and then President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Our esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, are spreading so much mischief here that the government, virtually. Mr Babiš, in this case, is presenting a lack of time. They first presented us with a state budget in which this press is not included, so the 50-billion-dollar blackout, which Mr Babiš subsequently submitted, is not taken into account in the draft state budget, where a deficit of 320 billion is already being proposed. CZK, and subsequently a comprehensive amendment is tabled to abolish the supergross wage in which it is stated - I quote from the reasoning: "This reduction is intended only as temporary, for two years, with a decision on the definitive tax regime and the level of rates to be decided according to current economic and fiscal developments." However, in this amendment, this part of the reasoning is not at all worked out. There is no limited effectiveness of the amendment for two years. The proposal will simply apply permanently if it is accepted. So I don't know what the Prime Minister arranged with Mr. President at the castle. However, the two years announced, which remained in the justification, were not reflected in the wording of the proposal at all. So the measure is definitely not anti-crisis and temporary, it is a permanent measure. And this permanent measure, of course, has a lasting impact on the state budget, so it needs to be counted into the Act on budgetary responsibility. Here, therefore, Mr Babiš came up with a very Furian solution when, because his budget and his proposal are colliding with the Act on budgetary responsibility, they do not solve it by either looking for other incomes or looking for savings in the budget, they tried to solve it. The way it deals with it is that it just shuts down the budgetary responsibility law, let the next generation handle it. We don't really think that's the right approach. It's just that this is completely unacceptable. I'm still gonna reschedule... Amendment of the Act on budgetary responsibility by the amendment in second reading to the Income Tax Act is not directly related, virtually. It wasn't until Prime Minister Babiš decided to make a hole in public budgets of 80 billion, so until then the two laws didn't have a connection. So now, in this way, to amend a completely different law, I think that this is unprecedented in this parliamentary term. [[17.40 hours]] The other problems are that once again, they disagree with the stated reasons why the law is being made and what the law looks like. The Prime Minister says that the aim is to promote consumption. But if, first of all, the wealthiest employees profit from the law, then, of course, they keep the money, they save it, and it's definitely not the group that would do the first thing if it saved on taxes, it put it into consumption. If you want to boost consumption, let's increase the discount on the taxpayer. That's the way everyone gets the same way, it's a fair and overwhelming majority of people who now have deep pockets in the crisis, it'll spend right away, it'll help retail, it'll help the services. But if the aim is to boost household consumption, the way to lower the tax rate and maintain the discount on the taxpayer at the original level is definitely not the right solution. For these reasons and also given the budgetary impact on municipalities and regions, we propose a compromise solution, namely that we propose a rate of 19 per cent against 15 and an increase in the discount on the taxpayer to CZK 33,000, by more than 8,000 per citizen. The budgetary impact is about a third lower than that of the government proposal, and the impact, the increase in population consumption is expected to be at least comparable. Furthermore, we propose to cross out those passages that torpedo the law on budgetary responsibility. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u11	Thank you. President Miroslav Kalousek with priority rights, then Mrs Ivana Nevludová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been acting on the government's proposal at first reading essentially to support it, including the so much discussed flat-rate instead of meal vouchers. I have not changed anything about this position, but I am now speaking out to express my complete dismay with regard to the amendments that were made at second reading. You see, the government can have left-wing policy both budget and tax, it can have right-wing policy both budget and tax, we can agree or disagree with that policy. And the most horrible thing is that the government has no politics. When the government doesn't know what it wants. And this is the situation that we are in, and if this is a situation where we are experiencing a major crisis, this is a rather dramatic situation. I'll just describe the basic points. The government has approved and is presenting us with a bill on the state budget, which we can say with certainty only one thing, that its basic indicators, revenues, expenditures and balances are at this point in time in conflict with economic reality. This is not a criticism, the government was simply based on the September forecast, and this was a situation that no longer applies today. Today we know that the expected revenues will be lower. Today we know that expenditure, even if no amendment had been adopted, even if this law had not been adopted, there is no doubt that the revenue would be lower than forecasted. We don't know how much, but we know they'll be lower. And we know that spending doesn't fit the current priorities. And if the government doesn't agree to update the economic reality, as it probably doesn't intend to, we can say one thing about the draft budget: it's completely out of economic reality. Now here we have a proposal for tax legislation, which, of course, significantly affects the draft law on the state budget, and the Prime Minister is proposing an amendment which is in the amount of tens of billions contrary to this approved draft law on the state budget. The first Vice-President of the Government is submitting a proposal which runs counter to the Prime Minister's amendment and also runs counter to the draft State Budget Act. The state budget, as I have already said, is contrary to economic reality. That, please, is not a scenario of absurd drama. That's the reality of today. Question: "Does the government know what it wants to do?" Answer: Well, he doesn't know. He does not know and unfortunately has neither the expertise nor the political courage to pursue any policy at all. It doesn't matter whether I'm left-wing or right-wing, whether I support her or criticize her. You can't even criticize that direction here because there isn't one. Here it is possible to criticize only the incredible chaos and the government's inability to clearly formulate its policy and direction, which way it wants to go with its budgetary policy and tax policy. Where, we don't know. We know -- well, we do, but I can't say because it's not 10:00. But all we know, and there is probably the government, is that the Prime Minister is making a proposal which, this year, the unacceptably dislodged law on budgetary responsibility wants to loosen up even more, or - as my previous speaker, Mr Ferjenčík, said very conveniently - he does not really want to relax him. He wants to shut it down. So that we do not measure the deficit in relation to GDP in the next year at all, so that we can get back to this sometime after the elections. This simply cannot be accepted. The crisis cannot be used to absolutely resign from the rules. The crisis cannot be used to spend money inefficiently, regardless of tomorrow. On the contrary, we need to increase responsibility in the crisis, and we need to follow the rules more closely in the crisis. Please, nicely, I just want to remind our neighbor, who should to some extent be a role model in budgetary responsibility, Germany, which is also planning a relatively high deficit for next year. But the relatively high deficit in their situation is 2.5 percent of gross domestic product, roughly EUR 97 billion. Two and a half percent! The government is presenting 4.5 - not 2.5 - and is considering a much higher number, perhaps up to 6, which is, of course, outside the bill on budgetary responsibility, which is why the Prime Minister's amendment wants to shut it down. Germany has 2,5 percent next year, roughly EUR 97 billion, but in the coming years, between 2022 and 2023, it plans EUR 10 billion and EUR 8 billion. This means that if we were to act in budgetary responsibility as Germany, we would be planning about 150 for next year, and in those next years 20 and 10, we would be going to red zero, because we would only implement one-off measures. As the Minister likes to point out that next year's budget, the 320-billion-dollar deficit will cost 214 billion one-off measures - one-off, I repeat. Well, that just can't be true! Because if the Minister were right and the measures were one-off, in the following year the deficit would be well below CZK 100 billion, and the government is planning 286 in the medium term. So it's not a one-off expense, it's a mandatorial expense. And with mandatorial expenses, mandatorial expenses, ladies and gentlemen, it's about the same as toothpaste. You're gonna push her into that toothbrush tonight in one or two, but then try to get it back in that tube. That's very complicated. And the amendments that are on the table today, one from the Prime Minister, the other from the Deputy Prime Minister, are, of course, not expenditure, but it is a change in budgetary legislation in the area of taxation of the dictatorial nature. This is simply a law that will then either change again or not, and it is very difficult. And it's projected into the next budget period, the next years. [[17.50 hours]] You're talking about canceling a super gross wage for six years. I'd like to remind you that the super gross wage has been cancelled. It was repealed by the 2012 Act. And you, because you broke the law before it was effective, you re-established the super gross wage. And ever since 2014, when you claim to cancel a super gross wage, you've been repeating it every year, but you've never submitted any government concept. And the least fortunate way - the least fortunate way - are two competing amendments, one from the Prime Minister and the other from the first Vice-President of the Government, which are in conflict with each other. And they're both against the draft state budget bill. Who do you think this is gonna be? You can't even tell us what you want! And in the situation in which we, as a TOP 09 club, believe that major interventions in tax legislation in the amount of tens of billions of crowns cannot be implemented by the salami method rate after rate. This really must be a systemic perspective, where tax reform, pension reform and public health insurance reform will be discussed at the same time, with the fact that we need to look for the long-term sustainability of both mandatory insurance systems. And of course we can... [[The speaker was silent for the noise in the right part of the hall.]] Excuse me. And of course, we can agree that there will be a 15% personal income tax rate. And at the same time, we have to say what it means on the expense side. If we don't say it, it's the same populism as saying that we want to raise civil servants' salaries by 30% without saying where we're going to take it. I believe we are obliged to discuss these systemic changes at once. If we do it with a salami method, we have one certainty - either one compulsory insurance system goes bankrupt or both. But if we want to make them sustainable in the long term, we need to discuss the three basic perspectives - the view of a systemic tax change, the view of a systemic change in social insurance and health insurance - at the same time and see one system in it, because, after all, all the three contributions, both income tax and pension insurance and health insurance, are the levying burden on the job. And the job is getting expensive. If we do not discuss this in this way, and I fear that the government is not able to do so, that even if it wanted to, there is no power, we are not prepared to support any systemic change. Neither the Prime Minister's proposal, nor the Prime Minister's proposal. Let somebody else whistle. We are ready to support parametric adjustments, such as the increase of the discount on the taxpayer, which was made at second reading, of course, yes. But we simply have to wait for a technical and politically brave discussion with the government to do it. This government is not up to it, and its proposals, which it is putting forward here from its amendments, prove it. The proposals are completely incompatible. They do not understand these proposals, just as the government does not understand what it wants in tax and budgetary policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u13	Thank you. Mrs Ivana Nevludová will continue to speak in the general debate. Mr. Onderka will be ready. With priority rights? I'm sorry, Madam. Minister Zaorálek came forward with priority rights. He'll get priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u14	I am very sorry, my colleague, but I wanted to respond quickly to Mr Kalousek because I feel that there may be some figures that should be heard here. And it seems to me when I sit here in a number of ministers that I should perhaps explain why they leave me with the cold statements that Minister Kalousek has said here. I'll only try to give you a few numbers. The MP here compared Germany and compared the Czech Republic. I was deliberately looking at Germany's total debt at the moment. He's 58.9 percent. It's basically 60 percent. So Germany's total debt was 60 percent before the pandemic. And at the moment, the deficit that Germany is creating is pointing at Germany's debt, let's say 72 percent, as the secretary here tells me. I would like to tell the House that - if I say something wrong, I will probably be corrected quickly - but that the total debt of the Czech Republic is, say, 40 per cent from the way I have it in my head and against Germany, compared to Germany's 60% debt. brát it roughly. [[From the right of the Minister's response.]] So even less. 38%. So it's even less than I'm saying. And this deficit, which we have and which is criticised by Mr Kalousek, will increase our debt to a maximum of 45 percent. I am saying this because it is obvious that if you look at the total debt of the Czech Republic, you will find out, and this is probably what the Minister will be documenting to you that we, with this total debt, are, I believe, quarters from the end, in terms of the smallest debt in the world, in Europe. What does that mean? That, of course, after this increase in debt, we will be considered a completely bonit country. Note that when countries such as France increase their deficit today, France has a total debt of 98.1 percent. Italy has 135 percent of the total debt. The United States today, when they're doing a deficit, is going over 100 percent of the country's debt. These are the numbers of countries that are clearly governed by fiscal expansion policy today, and in spite of these high debts, they are increasing their country's overall debt today. Since it exists today, and it is everywhere in all the texts, fiscal expansion is generally considered a way out of the crisis because America demonstrated it in 2008, 2010, when it carried out a massive fiscal expansion. And the money they put into it, they got back in taxes shortly. This is a financial crisis lesson 2008, 2010. It's basically something that's being respected in the literature today, in the articles, everywhere. And in this situation, the Czech Republic has a favourable situation that the default debt was 38%. This means that when we make a beautifully increased deficit by 4%, we are basically still considered a conservative country, which moves at the border when we are considered a bonita country. I can basically guarantee that here. It means, it's just about making good use of the money, of course, and stuff like that. And then there's this very strong argument, and I think you all know it, but I'll say it. Today, they just lend money at zero interest. Euras are even bought at a minus. That means this money-shopping thing is so convenient. If I were to say, even if you managed not to spend something 100% effectively, then actually, even if you have it stored, you're just getting minus money for it. So the situation is very favorable in this. This means increasing the total debt is in a situation where it is very convenient to borrow the money. That's the whole situation that's different from what it was ten years ago. The financial sector is working today. That means the situation is different than it was ten years ago. And this is just gonna pay off. I am saying this here to make it clear that I do not share Mr Kalousek's opinion that this is the policy that leads the country, as he said here by an expression that he did not want to use. No. Following this increase in total debt, the Czech Republic will be a bonita country, progressing essentially conservatively, which will belong, I believe, to the fourth least-indebted country in Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u15	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u16	Thank you for the floor. I only wanted to respond briefly to the Minister. I do not understand why you are here defending Prime Minister Babiš's proposal against which your President of your parliamentary party is proposing an amendment which is contrary to him. And by the way, I think that this solution to increase the discount on the taxpayer, which Mr Kalousek supported, by the way, is significantly better in terms of the impact on the budget of people and on the state budget, and it will also help the consumption. I don't understand why you're defending the budget nonsense the Prime Minister has put forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u17	Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u18	Yes, just to clarify who's talking about. I was talking about the budget, I was talking about the deficit, I wasn't talking about the tax adjustments. And I agree with what has been said here from your side that it is advantageous to increase the discount on the taxpayer. And I agree with you, I'm not a supporter of that 15% either. So we don't have to argue about that. This is a different chapter. I was talking about the budget and the deficit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u19	Thank you. Mrs Ivana Nevludová will now appear and Mr Roman Onderka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm glad I finally got to the word. Ladies and gentlemen, the first objective of my amendment is to gradually reduce the tax advantage of heated tobacco compared to cigarettes, from the current 25 per cent tax on cigarettes to 50 per cent tax. Warm tobacco, although in the category of tobacco products whose market share is constantly increasing and whose consumer popularity is growing, is significantly less taxed than cigarettes, which has a huge impact on the revenue of the state budget from excise duties. As the main argument for the significant tax advantage of heated tobacco, it is very misleading to mention its lower risk compared to classic cigarettes, which have not yet been proven credible. Even according to the latest opinion of the World Health Organization of March this year, there is currently no sufficiently independent evidence record showing a lower risk of heated tobacco compared to cigarettes. The U.S. Drug Control Authority has a similar attitude, which certified heated tobacco this year only as a product with lower exposure to pollutants, not as a less risky product. In order to load their products as low as possible with excise duty, the largest distributor of heated tobacco products, not only in the Czech Republic, reduces the amount of tobacco in its products from the current 6.1 gram to 5.3 grams in one box. The state will thus continue to lose a relatively favourable return on excise duty, which could continue to grow in the future, as the popularity of these products continues to rise. Therefore, if the State wants to obtain comparable excise duty returns, it is necessary to increase the burden of excise duty on these products accordingly. Next, I will return to the World Health Organization's conclusions. As I said before, there are currently no studies showing a lower risk of heated tobacco products compared to conventional cigarettes. On the contrary, there is evidence showing a generally lower level of toxins than conventional cigarettes, but on the other hand also a significantly higher level of other harmful substances; it is not yet quite clear how and to what extent harmful effects they can have on human health, both in terms of short-term and long-term use. World Health Organization reports also show an increasing popularity for these products. The same trend can be observed in the Czech Republic. The annual report on the use of tobacco products and alcohol by the State Health Institute shows that there has been an increase in both women and men compared to 2018. In the age group of 15 to 24 years, there has even been an increase in the number of users from 7,5 % in 2018 to 10,7% in 2019, which is quite alarming for such young people. According to Dr. Králíková, who works at the 1st Faculty of Medicine of Charles University and the Centre for Tobacco Addiction at the General Faculty Hospital, one thing is the risk of the product and the other is its addictiveness. In his practice he has a number of patients who have switched from classic cigarettes to heated tobacco products and now have a greater problem getting rid of this addiction than before traditional smoking. My second objective is to maintain a similar increase in excise duty on cigarettes, as the government's proposal envisages over a period of three years. Unlike him, however, this amendment would have increased the excise duty more significantly in the first year, while it would have increased more slowly in the next two years. The expected additional revenue for the budget in connection with this amendment will be very favourable. The impact on excise collection will be 2.7 billion compared to the government proposal in 2021. higher when sold 2.1 billion. pieces of heated tobacco products, with an increase of 3.2 billion in 2022. by the three billion sold in question. pieces of heated tobacco products and, in 2023, an impact on the collection of excise duty on heated tobacco products of 3.9 billion may be expected. 4 billion considered. pieces of heated products. In three years, the government budget yield will be 9.8 billion. taller than the government proposal he's counting on. Warm tobacco products have been sold in the Czech Republic since 2017. Their sales were not subject to any excise duty until May 2018. Although 15. 5. 2019 excise duty has been imposed on these products, tax collection has been virtually zero this year, as the producer has been sufficiently frontloaded before these rates are effective. Therefore, the first more substantial levy on these products does not take place until this year. Given that the excise duty rate on these products is roughly quarter compared to conventional tobacco products, it will make a difference in the tax collection of 3.7 billion this year. Crowns. From the time of the placing of heated tobacco products until the end of 2020, the total difference between the tax on heated tobacco and cigarettes will be 7.6 billion. Crowns. Of course, this difference will increase further, as the volumes of sales of heated tobacco continue to rise sharply. So, from the perspective of protecting the health of the population, even with regard to the state budget's current and planned deficits, I strongly appeal to the increase in the excise duty rate on heated tobacco products, since these attract non-smokers, especially misinformation, that they are healthier in quotation marks than classic cigarettes. Dealers of these products even train their dealers in this spirit. I would be glad if you would support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u21	Thank you. Mr Onderka had to leave for a while, so his application moves to the end of the general debate. Mr Marek Novák is next, Mr Martin Kupka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I will introduce you to my amendment, which you will find under press 6531. [[by document]] This concerns heated tobacco, which is now quite rapidly established as an alternative to classical smoking, currently accounts for around 10 per cent of the market, and could increase the market share of heated tobacco to up to 30 per cent by 2030. However, heated tobacco is significantly less taxed than cigarettes, which has a huge impact on the revenue of the state budget from excise duties. As the main argument for the significant tax advantage of heated tobacco, its lower risk against cigarettes is mentioned. However, this one is not crediblely proven. According to the latest opinion of the World Health Organization, there is currently insufficient independent evidence record showing a lower risk of heated tobacco compared to cigarettes. The U.S. Drug Control Authority, the FDA, has a similar attitude, which certified heated tobacco this year only as a product with lower exposure to pollutants, but not as a less risky product. [[18.10 hours]] The aim of my amendment is to gradually reduce the tax advantage of heated tobacco against cigarettes from the current 25 per cent of the cigarette tax to 42 per cent of the cigarette tax when converted into a box. This approach is similar to that of many countries. It was last seen in Slovakia, when the legislative process is almost over. A similar step in the Czech Republic would effectively solve the acute problem of the rapidly growing unrealistic revenues of the state budget from excise taxes, optimize the tax revenues of the state and improve the stability of public finances. Even so, heated tobacco would retain a significant tax advantage over cigarettes in the event that its lower risk is actually demonstrated in the future. As far as harm is concerned, I will introduce you to an article dedicated to one of the producers of heated tobacco, which tells us one thing: The system of heated tobacco used in the smokeless electronic equipment designed by XY is produced as a healthier alternative to traditional cigarettes. However, the results of the studies to confirm this are questionable. The vast majority of them were created by humans in connection with the largest manufacturer of warmed cigarettes. They tried to sell their product as a smoking cessation tool, which, according to doctors, is literally a lie. Currently, conventional cigarette sales are declining due to coronavirus. Indeed, the World Health Organization studies show that smokers are more susceptible to the virus, possibly due to chronic smoking-related diseases. OCCRP workers, the Organized Crime and Corruption Report Project, have focused on the activities of the largest giant in this area, which has launched a massive promotional campaign for this product in many countries, thematically focused precisely on people spending much more time at home due to the pandemic. You don't have to burn anything, it doesn't smell, it's not ash, it's the best alternative to smoking cigarettes, we'll read from the manufacturer of this product. Besides, next to a picture of a smiling happy couple. This manufacturer's heated tobacco has one great advantage over cigarettes. However, it does not concern the end-user. Since the product itself is only a nice-looking heater, advertising of this product can be virtually anywhere. The tobacco product for which advertising is prohibited by law is merely a tobacco content. So ads can be seen everywhere, kids everywhere, every corner. The company processes and provides its own scientific studies to support its claim. On the site there is a list of about 80 texts that are labeled as independent studies, and these speak precisely for this vendor. In the nearest investigation, however, the OCCRP found that some of them were not concerned with product health aspects at all, but with marketing achievements and public opinion polls. At least once, only the outline of the planned study occurs in the list. A fraction of the studies which examine the impact of heated tobacco on the health of its users is done by persons directly linked to the producers of this product. The mouse was supposed to be okay with it. OCCRP workers discovered another serious problem with the fact that the manufacturer tried to persuade the doctor and the professional public to recruit among their patients to study the effect of heated tobacco, or directly promote and deliver the product to patients who want to quit smoking. I think what you just heard is talking about studies of non-study involving the dangers and harmfulness of heated tobacco. Warm tobacco today has no conclusive study that would clearly say that it is less or more, or at all harmful to health. As far as the latest ESPAD study of 2019 is concerned, it speaks of a very positive trend concerning the decline in smoking of 15-year-old classic cigarettes. Unfortunately, right in the next graph of this study, we will learn that compared to this decline, there is almost a double increase in users aged 15 years who smoke heated tobacco. This is due to the fact that there are studies. It's caused by advertising. Therefore, I would ask you to support my proposal, which will bring a total of 12 billion to the state budget within three years. Crowns. Thank you for your support and have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u23	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka will now appear, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am also wondering that Mr Andrej Babiš has tabled a key proposal in the form of an amendment to abolish the supergross wage and has added several other important points to this, such as further dislodgement of budgetary discipline and budgetary rules. These are the things that are happening under standard circumstances to the Government's bill, paying all attention to them, and, of course, amendments can be attached to them. The amendment as such cannot be joined well enough. That is why it forces everyone to open up a debate, if we want to add something substantial to this matter, which this subject certainly deserves, that we take the course of our own amendments. However, two years ago, the citizens' Democrats submitted a proposal to abolish the super gross wage and replace it with a simple single rate of 15% tax. Of course, with such an amendment, we come up with a proposal from the opponents, so that we can really achieve what is called for: simple taxes. Simple taxes as well as the way to collect taxes effectively, simplifying people's tax rules, making the economy more efficient in general. The debate about whether it's a good time to lower taxes, leave more money in people's purses, here we say clearly that this is the right way even in this critical situation. I don't want to repeat the famous phrases that people know best how to help with the money they've earned. But that's the way it is. At the same time, it may be the best stimulus for the economy not to introduce false clues, but to show where the economy could really go, where the demand really exists. That is why we are coming, just as we did two years ago, with a clear, simple proposal, which means a single rate of 15%, the abolition of a supergross wage. Clear, simple steps that are understandable and that will contribute to the fact that people will actually manage to keep more money on their own spending and that this will be the best option and further strengthening of the economy in the future. This is one amendment that I will read in a detailed debate. [[18.20 hours]] The other is a correction of one error in the Road Act, errors that cost a number of entrepreneurs, but also a whole series of contracting entities unnecessary investment by both time and unnecessary investment financial. The point is that the Road Act remembers an exception to the fact that heavy agricultural technology, for example, can enter communication where there is a logical burden limitation. But it didn't remember the machines that went out to repair the communication itself. And unfortunately, this error causes really unnecessary paperwork and a serious administrative burden. It is precisely in the form of an amendment to the Road Act that we could deal with by simple adjustment. I will also read this proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u25	Thank you. Mr Roman Kubíček, now with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I would like to draw attention to some agreement from the Gremia, but just to be sure that we are able to read all the amendments and comply with the agreement with the ODS that point 507, so I would like to propose, on behalf of the two MPs, YES and ČSSD, to act and to vote on a case-by-case basis after 7 p.m. I don't think it's necessary after 21 o'clock, but I think it'll be about 30 minutes max. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u27	I should leave the vote, but I think Mr Ferjenčík will take the stand with the counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u28	I'd like to make it clear if it concerns only those 910 prints and, if necessary, point 507, and that's it. [[Voices from the O.R.]] It's essential for us not to be there 53, otherwise it doesn't matter to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u29	We shall vote on the extension of the negotiations after 19.00 until the conclusion of paragraph 506. Does that sound like a suggestion? Yes. [[Voices from the O.R., point 507.]] Okay, so only to point 507. We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 181 registered 89 Members, for 59, against 1. We have accepted the motion. We will therefore address this point, then paragraph 507, and if it is after 19 o'clock, we will end the negotiations. Mr Jan Hrnčíř is next in the general debate and Mr Roman Kubíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try to make a brief comment on this point, that is, on the tax package. The tax package put forward by the government was originally to be about some dietary flat-rate, it was supposed to be about excise taxes, let's say, tobacco and cigarettes, but at the last moment, Mr. Andrej Babiš's amendment to the tax package became essentially the proposal for perhaps the largest tax reform in the last decade, over the last ten years, and that is the abolition of the supergross wage, which is actually to change the taxation of wages in the Czech Republic, that is to say, a brother for some CZK 85 billion a year. This is indicative of the government's inconclusive and chaotic work, because such changes are simply not made the day before the parliamentary motion is discussed, and I think that the government should do it in a completely different way. However, of course, we support the abolition of the supergross wage, because we believe that our people should have more money left in their wallets to spend and, of course, to support the economy, to promote consumption, so of course we welcome this, but the way it is done simply shows more inconclusiveness and chaos. On the other hand, it needs to be realized that this will cause a state budget loss and not a very small one, so it is also necessary to respond to that. That is why we have proposed several amendments, of course, also in this respect. In short, I will add that the abolition of a supergross wage means the greatest savings for those rather high-income, which will help the low-income ones very little. That is why it is a more effective solution to supplement this abolition of the supergross wage by increasing the basic discount on the taxpayer, because it will help the very low-income population groups by far the most. In this spirit, we also proposed amendments, where we increase the basic discount on the taxpayer, which has not changed for a long twelve years, from the existing CZK 24,840 to CZK 30,000, respectively 28 200 or 27,000 a year, so in three variants. Another amendment is the taxation of dividends for foreign owners. We propose this repeatedly because foreign owners of domestic companies, which means those subsidiaries of foreign mothers, have an exception and do not have to pay withholding tax on the share of profits paid abroad. So we propose we end this exception. Furthermore, we have an amendment prohibiting State aid to foreign owners who will pay their dividends to their foreign owners during the next year. This means that companies that have enough capital to pay dividends probably do not need to pay any compensation bonuses from our Czech taxpayers from our state budget. Another amendment raises the amount for the so-called occasional income exemption, which has also not changed for many years, so we are raising it by CZK 10,000 to CZK 40,000. That's the kind of production surplus sales or mommy's on maternity leave where they sell little things, so it's also gonna help those low-income families. Furthermore, we are increasing the limit for compulsory VAT registration, which is also a long period of twenty years to the limit of CZK 1 million, when these entrepreneurs are obliged to register above this amount, if they have a turnover over the last 12 months, so they are obliged to register value added tax, which, of course, leads to administrative complexity and an increase in their services and products. We're raising it to 1 million 200,000, so only by 200 thousand, that means 100 thousand a month, as Poland has it in the long run, or Slovakia has roughly 1 million 350 thousand in conversion. We also respond, of course, to the cancellation of food support, because nowhere is it written that it is food support, the flat-rate one, so we suggest that only food can be purchased for meal vouchers or for the flat-rate one, not alcohol and cigarettes. So we're bound to use it so that it doesn't just become a tool for remuneration, as it happened abroad, for example, the experience is. Furthermore, we also propose a reduction in the tax advantage of heated tobacco, because it is actually declared that the heated tobacco has less harmful effects, so it should be favoured by the state, which unfortunately has not been reflected in its price to final consumers and benefits from it only producers, tobacco corporations, which simply sell this as expensive as those cigarettes, even if heated tobacco has a quarter excise duty compared to classic cigarettes, so we believe that it is just stolen from the state budget and it does not make any sense, of course, then the money is missing from the state to support those who need it. I will then sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u31	Thank you. Mr Roman Kubíček will now appear in the general debate, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will take the liberty, then in a detailed debate, to sign up to the amendments by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and these are two amendments. In fact, one amendment addresses what has been announced here, it is the abolition of a supergross wage, the introduction of a progressive sliding tax of 15 and 23 % and a slight dislodgement of fiscal rules. The second amendment concerns an increase in the rates of gambling tax, namely from 23 % to 25 in exchange rate betting, totalizer bets, raffles and small-scale tournaments, and from 23 to 30 percent in bingo and live game. This proposed rate increase corresponds to the initial proposal for a tax treatment of the gambling concerned contained in last year's government draft tax package. The proposal takes into account in particular the harmfulness of the different types of games. The proposed rates are set in such a way that they do not have liquidation effects on gambling operators, which should not lead to the development of an illegal market. This regulation of the taxation of gambling should bring additional CZK 300 million into the budget. In a detailed debate, I will sign up to these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u33	Have a nice evening and Mr Bělobrádek will be next in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u34	Thank you. I would like to introduce you very briefly to the proposed amendment. It also concerns gambling. I'm sure at this time we could raise taxes on gambling. My proposal is 35 per cent to 55 per cent for lotteries and 23 per cent to 25 per cent for live games. These are the areas that are the least affected by the situation now in the case of the covid, where the drop is the smallest, which means that there is no danger, first, in a situation where the selection curve stops and then there is no more choice and then they leave us into illegality, and second thing, it is also closer to European averages. For example, for the current lottery rate of 35%, the European average is 64 per cent of net revenue, which is why I took the liberty of suggesting it. The contribution or estimate of the contribution to the state budget is over a billion crowns, so I think that too is quite interesting. What my colleague here lectured before me, I don't think it would bring that kind of money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u35	Mr Roman Onderka will now speak in a detailed debate... sorry, in a general debate, I apologize... now in a general debate. And Mr Roman Onderka is not present, so Mr Výborný will now be speaking as the last in the general debate. Yes, he's here, so, Mr. Ambassador, do you want to take the floor? Okay, so let's give the floor to Mr. Roman Onderk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u36	Mr Vice-President, a great apology and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the tax package here today, which means a summary of the measures that will affect the state budget. The social democracy tax package has one fundamental change, namely the amendments tabled by our President Jan Hamáček. Thanks to his absence, because he is ill for covid, as you know, I will then apply to these amendments. Social democracy has long supported the abolition of a super-gross wage in order to keep more money in wallets, especially for people with lower incomes. However, it does not make sense at this time to reduce taxes to the rich and continue to spread income scissors and deepen the differences in society. This would lead to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's proposal to abolish the supergross wage and introduce a tax rate of 15 and 23 % with the impact of 70 to 90 billion crowns on the state budget. By the way, the Ministry of Finance has not yet submitted a proposal to replace this blackout. Our President has therefore tabled two amendments to help people with lower and medium income as Prime Minister's proposals, but they will not be an unnecessary gift to those with high incomes. Firstly, the first amendment is to increase the discount on the taxpayer to CZK 27,240. Income increases in the long term, but the discount remains the same for years, so that it has ceased to function as a tax damper for low-income groups. The proposal envisages an increase of CZK 2,400, which means an impact on the budget of CZK 10 billion. The second proposal is two income tax rates, 19 and 23 %. They're gonna be an elegant bonus for employees. Moreover, the proposal is entirely in line with the government's programming statement, which promises the abolition of the supergross wage on personal income tax and the introduction of a new reduced rate of 19 and 23 % of the gross wage. The impact on the revenues of public budgets is estimated at about CZK 15 billion, of which CZK 10 billion into the state, 1.5 billion in the budget of the regions and CZK 3.5 billion in the budgets of municipalities. I would like to point out that this is five times less than the Prime Minister suggests, I am having fun, five times less than the burden on the budget of the Czech Republic for the next period. If we made a short sum, if the Prime Minister managed to enforce the abolition of the supergross wage on his terms, that means 15 and 23 percent, it would cost the Czech Republic up to CZK 94 billion. Loss carryback 30 billion, cancellation of real estate transfer tax of 20 billion, tax flat-rate for businessmen of 10 billion, meal voucher flat-rate of 20 billion, and maybe I could go on. Anyway, only these few items are minus 174 billion in the Czech Republic's budget. I think that it is necessary to help low-income employees, really people who are deep in their pockets, and a cortex nowadays, when they may still be employed, but their real wage is really falling. Cancellation of the supergross wage will help employees because they will have more money left, a secondary phenomenon will be an increase in consumption and a positive impact on the economy. The proposals are budgetaryly responsible, implying an impact on the state budget of CZK 25 billion, a third compared to the Prime Minister's proposal, and helping low-income employees, supporting consumption, and thus the economy. Again, I stress that the Prime Minister's proposal means tens of billions of crowns for the rich, but who tend to save extra money, so that the positive effect for the economy cannot be expected. I would therefore like to ask you to support these two amendments. The third or second Social Democrat, who is absent and has the amendment tabled, is a colleague Václav Votava, who tabled an amendment that addresses taxation in the field of taxes and some other laws, that is, the level of rates for lottery taxes, exchange rate betting, etc. This increase in rates pursuant to Section 4 is designed so that it does not have a liquidation effect on the operator of the putting of the games, which should not lead to the development of illegal markets. Only two levels of taxation will be maintained by this proposal. This regulation of the taxation of gambling should bring additional CZK 200 million a year to the public budgets. And those rates should be amended as follows: (a) 35% for the sub-base for lottery tax remains; (b) 25 per cent for the exchange rate tax sub-base, i.e. an increase of 2 per cent; the same for c) for the partial tax base for totalizer games; the same for point (d) for the bingo sub-base e) 35 per cent for the sub-base for technical games tax would remain; (f) 25 per cent for the sub-base for live games - an increase of 2 per cent; (g) the same for the partial income tax base; (h) for the partial tax base of small-scale tournaments. All I've read is in Section 4 Tax Rate, gambling tax rate. I will also sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u37	I will now request a speech in the general debate of Mr Marek the Výborný, please, Mr Member, you have the floor, and Mr Petr Dolínek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u38	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL and three amendments that are read in the system by President Marian Jurečka. We have said this repeatedly, and I must say that even the debate that is going on here now seems very absurd to me in a situation where the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister, the coalition partner, present two completely different amendments against each other. I really feel like I'm here in Absurdistan, maybe in some Jára Cimrman piece. I think it's just wrong. I, ladies and gentlemen, was brought up in the fact that when we have a budget as a family, we have to act responsibly. We just have something, so we can afford it. If we can't do something, then we have to look for ways so that we can just manage it responsibly. I think that should also be done in the case of the state budget. And if there's a government proposal to abolish a super-gross wage and at the same time a state budget that doesn't count on it, I'm asking where there's some budgetary responsibility here. Where is the budgetary responsibility here, where we behave predictablely, where we know not only for 2021, but also for the years following, where we will be able to take on the axe, which we simply clench into the state budget? KDU-ČSL believes that it is necessary to help families at this time of crisis, but when we look at the costs that would result in the abolition of the supergross wage, we have clearly come to the conclusion that this step cannot be supported by the KDU-ČSL at this time. Nevertheless, we are taking a constructive course. We come up with proposals that will be less expensive in order of budget, and in the end a number of my previous speakers have already been mentioned here. I will then sign up for all three amendments in a detailed debate. Now let me introduce them briefly. The first thing is what KDU-ČSL has been proposing repeatedly, namely to increase tax advantages on dependent children. KDU-ČSL is on the parents' side. It always has been, it always will be. And so if we want to help working parents, let's do that by increasing the discount on the child, in our proposal it's by 25 percent. When we figured out the cost towards the state budget, this increase of 25 percent is costing us about 8.6 billion. Crowns. So it is a tenth - a tenth of what would result in the approval of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's amendment. Nevertheless, by approving this proposal, we would be able to leave families for a child much more in their wallets, increase the family's disposable income, and, of course, support the economy with a faster circulation of money. It's quite obvious. Just for your idea, the annual discount on the first child would increase from CZK 15 204 to CZK 19 005, with the second child it would be an increase from CZK 19 404 to CZK 24 255 and to CZK 3 and every other child it would be from CZK 24 204 to CZK 30 255. Thank you. So that is the first amendment. With the second amendment we are heading to a similar area, again it concerns § 35, where we want to cancel the reduction of the payment of the tax bonus of CZK 60,300. This means that the aim is to once again support families with more children by increasing their available resources. And the third proposal concerns in general, we consider this path to be far more sensible. A colleague of the chairman of the pirate club Mikuláš Ferjenčík, i.e. the vice-president, spoke about it here too. Let's go up the tax discount on the taxpayer. This, on the one hand, will not mean such a significant decline in the revenue of the state budget and, at the same time, we will help natural persons, leaving more money in their wallets. In our proposal, which I will then apply to, we work with a tax discount higher by CZK 2,400, which means from the existing CZK 24,840 to CZK 27,240. By the way, this discount has not changed since 2008, even though, as a result of inflation, there has been an increase in the taxation of individuals. This measure would have an impact on public budgets of 9,6 billion. Crowns. We're still nowhere near what the government's coming up with, as a matter of fact, the Prime Minister. Once again, these proposals are intended to support families, working families, working parents. The money will logically return to the economy. But what I want to stress, and I said it here at the beginning, for us, is the absolutely unacceptable way in which fundamental tax changes are made here at the moment when, in the order of hours before the second reading, two completely opposite proposals come from one, that is paradoxical, from one government coalition. I ask, is there any government coalition of the ANO movement, ČSSD supported by the KSČM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u39	And now I will ask - for the last time, Mr Petr Dolínek is enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u40	Good evening, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have roughly, I think, six seven amendments, but first I have a comment on three issues that have been dealt with here during the debate. First. I have to say, discount, respectively. deductions on three or more children is a topic which I think is very interesting and very important. I myself as a father now in the last year and half of three children have to say that one really encounters a number of problems, let it be small things as admissions differently, that somewhere there is still that obsolete way of two etc., and so it is then also in funding education and kindergartens and I don't know what everything is, and it really is unpleasant. And I think we should - I know that colleagues have a number of reservations, especially from the SPD, that we support someone we don't like, but let's marry that there's only a very small group of people who have a very large number of children, but there's a relatively larger group of people who have three or four children over the last ten years. I think it is very good for the Czech Republic that so many people have found the courage. And what has been said here from Mr. Výborný and others, I think it is appropriate. I think it may not be dealt with immediately in this package, but we will certainly find agreement with the Ministry of Finance to find such a tax route that families with three or four children will really find other benefits that will not be at the expense of the state budget, but which will somehow be reflected so that they can be functional, because it really is a phenomenon not only in the villages but also in the cities, and it is worth supporting. So that's the intersection theme. Then there are two topics that sound, gambling and tobacco. I am surprised, although I honor the right of every Member, that in the area of gambling there are those amendments that are being made. I think with the Minister, with the Vice Prime Minister, there was a lot of work being done here on the subject of gambling, I think, in the autumn of last year. It was a passionate discussion, a long discussion. The House didn't compromise. The House found the majority, and the majority decided somehow. And today, Pandořin's box is reopened on the subject of who will be taxed in the area. I have nothing against the state budget revenue. Every tax discount planned, whether it's in the proposal or canceling a super gross wage, must be earned, but the proposals, as they sound, always make me feel that there is an interest in one of the groups. And it seems to me that it's not entirely balanced. And I would ask my colleagues to consider whether we have to deal with this matter in this law or again whether we would give space to the Ministry of Finance to possibly do the analytical part that comes with how the application of the law took place in practice, what it meant to tax revenue, what it meant to improve with regard to gambling, which was one of the main engines of this taxation, and whether there is that space. It's just a rhetorical question, but I think it's technically the right thing to do. [[18.50 hours]] And then there's tobacco. I have a partial proposal. I hope my colleague, the Vice Prime Minister, will adopt it, it will be all about cognition. Just a month to extend the chance to flip cigarettes, that's a technical matter, I don't think it's complicated. However, I feel something similar in tobacco again in gambling. Here, something has been accepted, the Vice Prime Minister has announced how much tobacco needs to be collected. I agree. Maybe I'd raise a billion more. It would be worth it. But here again we see the conflict and concept of several distributors, or producers, not distributors, manufacturers and those who sell on the market, and their conflict as it should be. Some claim that their concept is correct, others say that cut tobacco, if it is more expensive in our country than in Germany, so workers on the construction site would rather go to Germany or to Poland to buy that packed tobacco, and we probably don't want that. I mean, I wouldn't want anyone to smoke. But if he's smoking, it's definitely not supposed to be the way he imports it from abroad. And again, it seems unhappy about the tobacco. But I think that the space between today's negotiations and the third reading will be about the fact that the Ministry of Finance, by the way, we Members, will be looking for a consensus which of these proposals is the most balanced and which of these proposals will be able to meet the money needed by the state and not at the same time favour one of those companies. I'd hate to feel like lobbying again. And now for the specific amendments. I have a proposal under number 6637. This proposal specifically concerns a relatively simple matter. When you look at the meeting, discussing this proposal, the Committee on Budgets was talking about reducing the tax on diesel by one crown. And I suggest that compressed natural gas, or liquefied gas, and so on, should be subject to tax relief. I will not burden my proposals with small things because I think there will be room for committees, and then we can agree on what needs to be done. This proposal is technical and I think it is not contrary to what is said, because we know that in the past, when more environmentally friendly transport has been promoted, which this House has done several times in recent years, so it should also happen in this case, if we reduce the tax on diesel, to reduce the tax on alternative fuel options for cars. The next proposal is 6628. This proposal concerns a dietary flat-rate. I'd say I have two suggestions in the case of a flat-rate meal. One is 6628, one is 6625. You know, both at first reading and at the budget committee, the nonsense of eating flat-rates was defended. It's a thing that I don't think is demanded by employees, nobody called her out of the trade unions and in-house employees. And it's a thing that's surprisingly defended in principle only by those who need their tax optimization. I was intrigued yesterday, I was interested in the press release on the Ministry of Finance's website. If you have noticed, the Treasury has issued a press release that the Ministry, in cooperation with some associations, supports the introduction of this flat-rate. And you know what's weird about the whole press release? There wasn't an employee mentioned once. There was not one mention of the food needs of the employee in the three-shift operation. Only there has always been a mention of how companies and dining rooms are doing. How are those hoteliers out there who would like to get cash and stuff like that? I think it's the wrong way. First of all, when we're introducing a super gross wage, we have to think about what priorities are. The introduction of a flat-rate tax, and I hope it will recognise the right, is certainly not a priority at the moment when a public outage occurs when a super-gross wage is abolished. It just isn't. This is not a priority that should be put in place at the moment when we need to stabilise public finances in the next three years. That is why my first proposal clearly states, the proposal 6625, that we are releasing basically all the mention of a flat-rate tax. The second point is that if the tax flat-rate should remain on proposal 6628, the proposal talks about it - I will not discuss whether the relevant committees comment on this, I will not burden the House's negotiations today. [[unintelligible]] He's talking about it, just in a simple way, that we're going to protect the money from executions and things like that, and he's talking about how the money has to be proven. You know, I really know tax optimization is tempting. I understand that these companies will want to negotiate, especially the smaller ones, with employees using a new tool. We'll give you an untaxable portion of your salary, and it'll help you. But look at the polls. Look at the results from the past. It always turned out that those who didn't have a job security, especially three-shift operations, but they were also other employees, so they just had health problems at the older age in the finals. And it seems to me that the Treasury really did, but not most of them, I said some of them, and at the same time, it turns out that anything that said gastro-industrial would welcome it didn't work out. No one came from the gastro-industrial industry and would say I've had 92 percent of the restaurants and they say it's effective. And now I don't want to sound like some extreme supporter of the food lobby, but today I'm intrigued by one message, one message on the radio. They invited people from the restaurants of the food supply company, Wolt, We'll give food and the like to reduce the margin. Nobody did it. And wonder for the world, I'll stand up for them. Food companies took the margins off. It's weird, they did it. So I think that the optimization of companies is part of a different tax burden package for companies than for this package. And I'm on the side of employees who have the right to have a clear allowance for their meals. What's the second thing, and I'm going to be very happy to cooperate with the Treasury to cut the wings off these companies. Because the release that's been going on in 15 years is definitely not appropriate. We all know the experiments from the past that were there, that the food stamps would be used in those socially weak areas, and then started to deal with it in those experimental areas, and the exchange of 90-caliber meal vouchers for 60-caliber and the exchange for cigarettes and the like. I'll be damned if that's true. Some of the experiments didn't work out. But that can be modified by another legislation to make this system work. Then I have just mentioned one, one of the amendments mentioned, 6588, as I mentioned, that there should be a month more to roll over cigarettes. But I hope that the Treasury will either confirm or not according to technical possibilities how this would happen so that they can really be ordered, printed and given the receipts, but we're not talking about the money. There is a correction to the technical need for the change in the rate of cigarettes and other instruments to be, or not to be, a forum for discussion with the Ministry of Finance. The last amendment, or two, 6748 and 6749, is given in cooperation with Mrs Pekarová. [[correct 6478 and 6479]] And this concerns charging stations, or other things in this area. And we're talking about these things going from the third depreciation group to the second depreciation group. This means that the depreciation on the charging stations, or other instruments in this area, has been reduced by depreciation from ten to five years. It's a technical matter. I think it will not harm public finances, and at the same time, given that this area is developing very quickly and we know that electromobility is very strongly supported not only by the EU, but by the world economy, it will enable investment in charging stations to be more interesting for companies, so that the network is really stable across the Czech Republic for recharging. Again, it corresponds to the decision we made here a few months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u41	So I will look around the hall to see if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate. Yes, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the general debate, which has shown quite interesting contradictions, is ending, I was expecting to see some consensus here, some agreement in the discussion of the materials and examples. It turns out the House is unable to agree. We had prepared the proposals that we wanted to put forward by the second reading of the tax package. We had reasonable proposals that should have been reflected in or led to a common consensus and managed to discuss this material. All the more we were surprised by the debate that took place here on this microphone between the government movement ANO and the Czech Social Democratic Party regarding the supergross wage and development, i.e. the tax level between 15 percent, 19 percent, or these borders. We had a compromise proposal prepared, we wanted to speak with him, but the debate has quite surprised us now. I don't know how to react, but we've been discussing the situation in the club, we've been looking for a solution, and it turns out that the contradiction between the ANO movement as the petitioner for the tax package, namely the Prime Minister, and the Czech party for social democracy as the second partner in the coalition is quite large, and we don't know how our proposals, which we have put forward and which we wanted to discuss, are supposed to understand, or how far we can find agreement. Therefore, I will allow myself to take two hours of breaks for the KSČM club so that we can deal with them and make appropriate proposals for a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u43	So I'll do it again, so I can hear you right. So you're proposing to take a two-hour break right now, Mr. Ambassador? [[The answer from the diaper.]] Two hours break. And we voted because I didn't sit here to negotiate those two prints. [[Protests and objections from the benches.]] That means, basically, it would have been voted by the 21st, so I would have ended the negotiations with this. [[Members want to continue.]] Or wait, I wasn't here for the vote, so I'm gonna ask... [[Some Members discuss outside the microphone.]] Wait a minute, make a deal. I have information that this is to be discussed in paragraph 507, that it has been voted out. All right, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u44	So thank you again for the floor. Since a brief meeting has now taken place, I will modify my proposal and let a detailed debate come to an end, because colleagues say that this should be done quickly in the detailed debate, and we will take the break after the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u45	So after discussing the second reading of this point, you're taking a break. Okay, I get it. So let's continue. And so I am opening up a detailed debate. And here I have a priority application right... Excuse me? Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u46	Yes, with priority rights. Vice-President, I'm sorry. If the Communist colleagues here have said something to each other, it certainly doesn't mean that this change is in agreement with the civil democrats. So I propose a ten-minute break at the moment, so that we can agree as presidents or representatives of individual clubs, what we will do, because Mr. Luzar will not really run the House here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u47	Wait a minute, I'm running the House, so don't worry about it, but... [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] But I wanted to say that, on a proposal from the ODS, I understand a ten-minute pause. [[with laughter]] So I'm declaring a break until 19-12, so you can make a deal, and tell me the result eventually. [[with a smile]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u48	So, we're off break, we're on 19-12, and I'm gonna ask if there's a deal that's gonna make it. Mr. Kalousek? So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I cannot say that this is an agreement between all the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament, but perhaps I can say that this is an option that has the greatest chance of success, and therefore I would like to put forward a procedural proposal for the Chamber of Deputies to act after 21.00 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure until the end of paragraph 506, the scrutiny of the House of Deputies' resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u50	We will vote on this, and I will therefore call the Members to the Chamber. I'm interested in signing off, so I'm signing you all out, sign up again with your voting cards. We are going to vote on the procedural proposal that Mr Kalousek has tabled, so that today we will continue to act after 21.00 and, at the same time, by the end, I will be 506. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 182, 91 Members signed in for 63, against 5. The motion was accepted. Now, therefore, we have closed the general debate, and I am asking whether there is an interest in the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur, after the general debate. Yes, so the Minister is interested in the final word after the general debate. Please, you have the floor. The rapporteur, too? No. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u51	Thank you. I'm gonna try to be brief, everybody's already waving at me so I don't drag it out, but there's a lot going on here, so I have to respond, so I've been leaving space for everyone all along, so now let me have a quick reaction. I felt a little bit when I was listening, and I'm not going to address anyone because there was a lot to say, rather I was taking notes of material, rather I felt sometimes that I was listening to the suggestions from the fairy tale Smart Mountaineer, which means how we want to reduce taxes, except for some exceptions, adding 15, there 23, but when we say it to A, we have to say B. This means that we can hardly accept any of those proposals that have already been passed by the Committee on Budgets and have been recommended, and I understand them, such as accelerated depreciation or, in connection with the reduction of excise duty on diesel, I understand that, or a whole bunch of other proposals without talking about budgetary liability rules. I just can't. So either the package stays in a state as it passed through the government, which means how it was prepared by the Treasury, slightly positive. And then I'm going to comment on the $20 billion at the meal break, which is the evergreen that the ČMKOS, headed by Mr. Středula, doesn't even report to today when I explained it on tripartite, but I'm happy to explain it. So either it stays as it was put forward, and then we don't have to loosen up the fiscal rules, or - and now I'm talking about all the other proposals, which means the proposals of the so-called deboned, deboned Prime Minister's proposals as a Member, when he leaves 15 and 23 and the fiscal rules are being removed, they just don't go. They're not. I say that with full responsibility. So if we want to talk about tax cuts for employees, and I say any other time than now, in the most difficult crisis comparable to the 30th years of the last century, when other times than now, we're going to have to talk about unwinding the fiscal rules first. I would like to remind you, and we will certainly discuss this in the context of other points, and we will definitely talk about the budget, etc., those debates will be conducted throughout the autumn and winter, but I would like to say that one thing is forgotten, which is directly mentioned in the laws on budgetary liability rules. I would like to quote Section 2 of this Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility: "The State and the local authorities ensure sound and sustainable public finances, with appropriate support for economic and social development, employment and intergenerational cohesion." That's what we have to do first of all to just get out of the crisis. That's why we're talking about pumping money into the economy right now. We have been doing this since spring of this year, there has been over 200 billion, and I thank all the Members who have raised their hand for the amendments to the State Budget Act, who have had the courage not only to propose spending and not only to propose spending increases beyond what the government has proposed, but also to raise their hand to increase the budget so that we can finance all these expenditures. And you know that as of September 30th - and we regularly put it on the Ministry of Finance's website as well as on my social networks - we've already pumped over 200 billion into the economy. So please, let's talk about this properly. The opinion that the supergross wage has been abolished has been heard here many times, by the 2012 law, but the former minister forgot to add that he simply did not write the 40 billion at those prices into the medium-term frameworks. This means that it was sort of canceled with the fact that the government that comes after the elections, in that year I suspect 2013 or 2014, will start right with the hole that she has left, when she just got her indebted public finances and this kind of future deficit, so what's left of it before leaving the super gross wage there. Now is the time. Now is the time when we should help people and pump money into them. According to our macroeconomic forecast, the average wage will increase by around 0.8% year on year. That means wages in the economy will basically be frozen. So the 7 percent of the gross that these employees would get will actually be the only thing they'll have for good, no matter where they work, in any sphere, whether private or public. And a number of companies are waiting for it, both to set up their systems and to use it to negotiate pay. So I'm just saying frankly, I'm not going to repeat what basically happened again plus minus in the debate, I don't want to wind it up. I just want to say that even the Pirate Party proposals for discounts - I'm not saying they don't have any relevance, I'm not saying they don't. But the 30,000 discount, Mr. Ambassador, is the impact on public budgets of 19.6 billion, as we have calculated. Each hundred crowns a month at a tax discount present 5 billion. So it's about 19,6 billion, plus 19 percent and 23, so we're plus minus the amount a little bit smaller, just to be correct, but not so small. Even on your proposal, and I'm not saying he's stupid, I'm just reminding you to increase the tax on the self-employed. [[19.20 hours]] I heard your Senator on the Economic Committee today, we had a fair debate about how you want to help the most vulnerable. He was quoting businessmen. I agreed with him. Not with the proposal, but with the fact that they're very vulnerable. Then we'll raise their taxes from 15 to 19 percent. Well, tell them. You'll see what they say in this situation when they're fighting for their existence. But even your proposal, Mr. Ambassador, means disengagement of fiscal rules. I'm just reminding you. I can't do this without it. Unless we want to violate Czech and European laws. I would like to point out that any of your proposals aimed at reducing the tax, whether by reducing the percentage of the rate or by discounting the tax, is no longer indifferent, meaning that fiscal rules should be disbanded. So let's be fair. And we have to say it like that. That's the smart hobby. We can't tell A not to say B. That's all I wanted to remind you of. Now, think about what you want to vote for, or you won't. That means, Mrs Kovářová, your proposal, or your performance, so on the one hand you say, "Let the economy transfuse, give the people the money, and on the other hand don't take them anywhere 60 billion or more. So we're gonna bleed again. So I read your words. So I read them. And we need to be perfectly fair about it. If we don't want this, and we have to vote fair and square, or you have to, I'm not, I'm not an MP, if you don't want it, then you need to tell people. It's just not that time right now, we're just gonna be as careful as possible right now. Finally, the experience from 2008, 2009 is here. We know where it led. So let's just say, we don't want to relax. We really want it to be like this. Other countries do it. Minister Zaorálek, when he mentioned this, I showed him the chart for a while before. [[He's showing the chart.]] It's okay. I thank him for his support in this regard. This actually came this week - the forecast of the International Monetary Fund - October 2020. In fact, this is where the country's deficits increased. And let's see where we are. We're still in fourth place. Although we have shifted, twenty-one is estimated at 41% of GDP, but we are still in fourth place. Because we were basically starting from that fourth place, so we stayed on it. Because everyone has to go into debt. The last issue we paid was 0.5 percent interest. Last issue. Who is able to borrow other than the state for such interest? Our state! Let's just say that. I'm sure this is the best time for us to take advantage of it and pump the money for this cheap interest in the economy. And for the euro, unfortunately, we don't sell bonds for the euro, but we have some old instalments that we just have to pay in euros. It's even there for minus interest. And, of course, we have to take very good care of ourselves, and the experts of the Ministry of Finance on state debt are actually at the word taken, to make sure there are no exchange rate differences. And we're really keeping an eye on each other. So I'm just naming it. And you're gonna say what you want here. You're a sovereign. There are a number of amendments. So you say yes, we don't want that. We don't want fiscal rules to loosen up. We don't want to give people money. We'd better consolidate. Okay. It's okay. But we have to put it this way clearly. Plus Germany. I won't talk long, because I'm sure I'll still have time to talk on other topics today. It's Germany. Just two sentences. You keep saying, look at Germany, how Germany does it... Too škoda President Kalousek isn't here. The Germans presented a proposal for a federal budget that counts after a relatively high deficit of 218 billion in 2020. EUR, which is 6.6 % of GDP with a deficit of more than 96 billion. EUR 2.7 % of GDP in 2021. They still consider the budget for 2021 to be stimulating to help the economy. In addition to the planned lower aid, the lower deficit for 2021 is transferred to business entities, households and because they are planning for 12 billion. EUR less expenditure on investments. We're not, I'm just transmitting. We're raising them to the highest level of history. However, they are then planning a relatively substantial deficit reduction in terms of policies or policies. measures that will lead to a reduction in the deficit in 2022 to 2024, and please listen here, 2022 to 2024 - which will be the subject of discussion on whether to go through tax increases, cuts in expenditure, combinations of what taxes and expenditures and so on, Chancellor Merkelová said. So they're going to debate them. And then I'm going to get some space on that 506, so I'm going to go even further on that. I'm just saying that every time I read something or say something, I go and ask for permanent representation to get me resources. Here's the last thing - that prediction I'm always so upset about. Every prediction based on which the budget was built was based on the summer forecast. September this year, because we moved it because of great uncertainty. The November forecast is not relevant from a legislative technical point of view to the budget. Never. The budget was always sent to Parliament by the end of September and sometimes in October it went through the first reading. So the November forecast didn't have any relevance. This year, this month is shifted due to uncertainty and the displacement of all budgetary processes. So I'm saying it's never had a relevance, it doesn't have it now. And making predictions at a time when every week measures change, when we watch when the break comes, there's no point. We'll do it all year round. All year in January. It doesn't affect the budget right now anyway. I read somewhere, I don't know where the prediction is. It's not. It's not. That rudder is basically the budget. I think at a time this turbulent, it would still be the result of some inaccurate numbers. And my last big heart thing, I can't forgive myself, I'm sorry, it's a meal breaker. At this time, of course, I understand, you know that we put this proposal before the pandemic, so I'm not saying that it's a key measure, but it's really very, very important for me that it goes through. And, of course, I watch the debate very much, and I notice the debates and I see the different pressures, there are enormous pressures on me, because I understand that the six foreign companies that make dividends abroad each year have built up the business on the tax exemption. An excavated tax exemption, that's all it is. If the exception wasn't in the law, they don't have business. We don't take their business away from all that. We say keep it. If it's delicious, I'm sure the companies that have food stamps will keep it. And they won't mind paying two percent on commission and a restaurant that pays five to seven percent. I'm sure they'll be happy. If you want a race meal, you keep it again. We're not taking anything from anybody. We're just saying, there's a million employees who have nothing because those companies can't afford it. And maybe that million employees would like to have something. Those firms don't have the commission, they don't have the ability to pay employees who will keep records of this special price. So we say, for the same tax advantages, for the same tax advantage, which is the 55 per cent, 45 per cent employer, the maximum amount is 131 per meal voucher, of course it can be less, so under the same conditions the employee gets separately when the employer wants it, he chooses whether he wants to race meals or whether he wants food stamps or whether he wants a meal voucher. What are these companies afraid of? If she's so competitive, I'm sure she'll last! I'm sure those meal vouchers are gonna make it. I'm sure they'll survive. So what's he afraid of? What are all those who lobby for them so much afraid of? [[19.30 hours]] I know you all got it, I think it was sent by the trade unions of ČMKOS, calculations of the tax package. I've seen it on Twitter and networks a hundred times. I'll send it to all of you, I'll arrange it tomorrow, our analysis, that it doesn't have any relevance at all, all the numbers that are listed there, because I'm sure the Treasury has an absolutely expert team to calculate it precisely. But the most fun is the 20 billion. on a meal break. You know what it's built on, the 20 billion.? You know what? The fact that everyone, even those with food stamps today, all the employees, that the employer actually steals from them - otherwise I can't say - steals the amount from the paycheck. So he's got some kind of paycheck, they're gonna cut their paycheck by the meal break so they can get a meal break next door. Well, that's a hell of a high point! And that's what 20 billion are built on. When I explained it in tripartite, very factually, calmly, the unionists put their hands away from it. Mr. Středula said: it was counted by an ex-Deputy Deputy from the Ministry of Finance, which we didn't count. So just so you know what the weight of these numbers is. And you can count on the weight of the numbers that the Treasury is presenting. I'm sorry I spent so much time on a meal break. And I could talk about it for hours, about the people, the purpose... If we make it a purpose of the amendment that people get the money, they'll have to prove some receipts that they spent it on food... Why? We're gonna make this a bigger administration than food stamps today. Why? According to the Czech Statistical Office, people spend much more money on food than they get on food stamps. People don't stop satisfying their basic human needs, such as food, just because they didn't get the paperwork. And I haven't talked about the 150 miles that fail every year because it's not enough to change people. And that we have a price here that we do business with, which essentially changes in different ways, etc., that would be a long story. So we don't take anything from anybody, we don't take anything away from anybody, we give no one their investments, we give only freedom of choice to those firms, those businesses, and the opportunity for a million employees to get some allowance and a benefit to eat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u52	So I am now initiating a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First with the priority right of Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr Jiří Dolejš will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, since the general debate has already been concluded and we have not been able to respond to your issues here, so before I present the amendments, I must say that this was one of your best demagogical speeches, and I think we will address this to the Committee on Budgets so that we do not delay colleagues. I will now sign up for the amendments that I have justified in the general debate. The first is led under House document 6623 and responds to Mr Babiš's amendment and basically compensates the municipalities and regions of the blackout, which will be caused by the abolition of the tax on super gross wages. The second amendment, under House document 6624, rejects further dissolution of the budgetary rules, also responds to Mr Babiš's amendment. The third amendment, this is House document 6639, responds to Mr Hamáček's amendments and compensates for the municipality's revenue outages by changing the budgetary determination of taxes - see percentages in that amendment. The fourth amendment is brought under House document 6638 and it is essential for the employer to be able to apply the costs associated with the employee's vaccination to its costs. And the last amendment is made under House document No. 6630, it is Jana Krutáková and Věra Kovářová's amendment, which I also justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u54	So I will now ask Mr Jiří Dolejš to speak and Mr Jan Řehounek will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u55	Thank you for your word, and I wish you all a pleasant evening. I have entered into a detailed debate because I think that the lapidation is sometimes more effective, but still, listening to the detailed debate, it has kind of confirmed to me that, although there are a lot of problems in the tax package, we will certainly somehow bring it to a successful end, that is, to the vote, and maybe we can manage the pitfalls, such as the debate, to what extent eating flats are the room for tax optimization and to what extent they allow people to eat well. It's just gonna work out. The main issue that is discussed in this proposal and undoubtedly has the greatest weight in the future, was born yesterday after lunch when the Prime Minister's proposal was introduced into the system, and my amendment is also pointing to it, which, in order to do the formalities enough, I will allow myself to sign up to Amendment 6627. And even if there is about ten lines of reasoning in the electronic or paper version that a thoughtful reader can read, I will allow myself to say four thoughts on the subject. Because we're really a little bit at the club today, I don't want to say sweaty, but we just had to wonder the way to the problem, and it really isn't easy, because this is a complex of problems, which, whether you touch it from one side or the other, you're going to cause some effect and it can be very contradictory. The main problem is that the intervention is very dramatic, and yet at the time of the epidemic and at the same time of the economic crisis. So if the government originally worked at a 19-percent rate in the programming declaration, we all knew that it could have some impact on the budget, but within the limits of the load capacity, plus the economy at that time, when the programming statement was written, it was working. Which, of course, is no longer today, and as the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister mentioned earlier, so the motive for this more forceful intervention is to resolve the general wage situation of all people, i.e. contribute to the household with some extra crown in view of higher net income. But there is no other way to do this, because, of course, they are connected vessels other than when there is no tax return, so of course, we have to borrow to cover some set budget needs, and of course, the debt issue, if the suspension of the vote on this matter is by turning off the debt brake, so of course, the debate will necessarily have to shift towards the budget and the way in which debt policy is managed. So it's this thing. Another thing is that we are all aware that emergency measures, measures that have a crisis, temporary, even one-time character can be taken and that we will simply accept such measures, because it is not something that will be in that system forever or for a long time, and therefore that system does not somehow devastate. It is nice that they said to each other at the Castle on this topic that it would be reasonable to deal with this budget drain and that it will simply have to be dealt with in some nice times that will undoubtedly come after the 2021 elections. The problem is that the word in the explanatory note to this changeling that it will be dealt with in 2022 according to the current political situation is simply a word. We also introduced a super-gross wage on a temporary basis in 2008. Well, see, it's 12 years later, and we're still dealing with it. [[19.40 hours]] So this really is a problem, and we need to realize that if it was a permanent drain from that er, we're actually locating the solution to a whole series of problems, including systemic reforms, such as pensions, we've talked about them a lot, and we're definitely going to talk about them. And the health system is another burden that will increase and will increase its budget demands. And this simply cannot be without more comprehensive tax change, and the considerations of these changes logically need to be reflected in the setting of a fiscal corridor, which signals a certain will after we return the budget to some more natural parameters. That's the point 506, on which I sometimes believe this year, and even this meeting will take place. But unfortunately, there are a lot of uncertainties here, and that is why the debate is going on as it is, because those who come up with various proposals now, as if they did not see this connection, and they do not want to vote on their version with this condition. There are several options today. There's a variant of the Prime Minister, that's the 15+23. Then there's the version of Mr. Vice Prime Minister, that's the original government version, without the bond to the debt brake. We've got a 15 per cent ODS option in this game, but without everything else, which is basically the dream of equal taxation, you can give a little quote if you think theoretically equal tax is a little bit different, but it's this. And now, of course, some way out of cannabis, if these things aren't discussed. If they're not discussed. So it follows that, although we are discussing this separately, it must be, necessarily we lack the expression of a certain will, we are aware of the risks of spinning the debt spiral, that we perceive that although the Prime Minister and the Minister have written us some letters describing their ideas very freely as to what it might look like, but certainly not in a way that can be recognised as being a concept. And that is what the National Budget Board's position, which should be, is also, I believe, an independent body, not, therefore, someone who is the bearer of a strong political opinion. So in this situation, even the outside voter is confused, and even though he perceives that it's cool that he may be able to raise his net salary for the lower income categories by a few hundred, but he asks if it wouldn't be more appropriate to ease the vortex in the cash register by adding to the solidarity after all. That the higher income categories could contribute more to the register, because for lower income categories there is essentially an existential threat. For those of the upper middle classes, even people who have an annual income of around a million, it's probably not about an existential threat, but about solidarity that should be reflected in the solution. And that's why I put in another variant, which, of course, we'll see how it all shakes off, but it reflects the call for greater solidarity, so that those rates, apart from the 15, are 23, and even 32 for the highest revenue positions. So, of course, it has this logic. Well, of course, the question is, how do we decide that now? I don't think a definitive absolution is gonna give us a debate about information about the concept of consolidation of public finances. The truth is, if the Prime Minister's choice were to go through, the whole thing is moving in time from a formal point of view. In short, if it is similar to this year's next year, within two years we will produce a debt around one trillion crowns, which is not a small thing, even if we are called. premieres, when it comes to the share of debt in GDP, we have more room in our country than anywhere else. But it's not always about the volume, it's about the rate of debt. And let's just say that next year, given that all countries are in debt, it can be a little tight on the financial market. And if it gets tight, the rating may get worse, the price of the debt may simply change significantly, and then, of course, there's something to consider. So that's also an argument. So we're going to have to make this clear by saying that when what we're loading here today, we're going to somehow redo it on the guarantee committee on November 4th, so I'd quite like to make sure that all those who are the bearers of the individual ideas to clarify the very cross-compliance, to decide, in this context, whether we're going to release debt soon, someone calls it even turning off the debt brake, and therefore where to look for a guarantee of certain debt liability. And if we don't agree here, if we still play those games of Babiš, Anti-Babish, etc., then, of course, it may prove to be the simplest option of the tax package to do without a super-gross wage, because sometimes doing less is less damage than trying to push through the force something that doesn't actually reach out to the public, and it doesn't even help. So thank you for your attention and I suppose I have not forgotten that this is Amendment 6627.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u56	I will now ask for Mr Jan Řehounek's speech and prepare myself - perhaps Mrs Věra Kovářová no longer, I have her in line, but she has already spoken, so then it will be Mrs Ivana Nevludová. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u57	Mr President, Minister, unlike my colleague Dolejš, I will be very brief on your work and its economic-social-prognostic lectures. I hereby subscribe to House document 6216, which I have presented and justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u58	I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Ivana Nevludová and Mr Roman Onderka will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u59	Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for my amendment, which is in the system under number 6446, which I have already justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u60	Mr Roman Onderka will now appear and Mr Jan Volný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u61	Thank you. I am signing up for Amendment 6616 tabled by the absent Václav Votava. Subsequently, to Amendment 6609, tabled by the absent Jan Hamáček. And to Amendment 6610 tabled by an absentee colleague, Jan Hamáček. I have presented and justified all three amendments in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u62	Next, Mr Jan Volný will appear and Mr Marek Novák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u63	Hello, fellow Members, thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for five amendments. I do not want to delay this much, it is Amendment 6213, it is an excise duty on tobacco, 6214, it is an amendment to Amendment A5. Then it is Amendment 6603, and it is an amendment that shifts the effectiveness of the aid to cod from 31 May to 31 December. Then it is Amendment 6606 and these are legislative amendments. And then it is Amendment 6607 and that is a slight modification of the text that should lead to the adoption of this law by 1. 1. 2021, respectively. if it is in the Charter of Laws, so that this tax change associated with the abolition of the supergross wage can be applied from 1. 1. 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u64	Mr Marek Novák will now appear and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, nice evening, colleagues, colleagues, members of the government. I hereby formally subscribe to Amendment 6531, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u66	I will now ask Mr Martin Kupka to speak and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u67	I hereby subscribe to two amendments. The first is led under No. 6633 and deals with the abolition of a supergross wage with the determination of a uniform tax rate of 15 per cent. The other one is led under No. 6631 and it concerns, as I presented in the general debate, the exceptions for machines that bring in road repair machines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u68	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear, Mr Jan Birke will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am applying to the amendments under 'No'. 6120, 6121, 6122, 6123, 6124, 6125 and 6126. These are the proposals I have made to the Committee on Budgets and they have not been adopted, so I will see how I will march them to plenary. In particular, they relate to the different options for the taxpayer's discount, including the possibility to base it on the average wage. Otherwise, all of them are justified in writing. I also refer to the amendments that I submit together with my colleague Tomáš Martínek. These are amendments to the Prime Minister's proposal, in this role of Mr Babiš, to the supergross wage, and these are proposals under No. 6635 and 6636. One of them's introducing that version of 19 a rate and a 33,000 discount on the taxpayer. And the other one cancels the clause about shutting down the budgetary liability law. These are the two proposals. And I wanted to respond very briefly to the Minister. First of all, tradesmen. Our proposal raises the discount on the taxpayer for businessmen, so a number of businessmen, despite the higher rate on the proposal, will save. That break is about half a million turnovers at a 60 percent flat rate. And the second thing is that a number of businessmen will now reach a flat-rate tax, so this whole group wouldn't be affected by our proposal at all. That's a comment on this. Second point. We have never supported a reduction in the tax on diesel fuel on the budget committee, so here is 5 billion that we did not want to take away from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, and so are several proposals that we are putting forward which strengthen either the revenue side of the budget, which means, for example, the abolition of the exemption for the sale of shares over 20 million per year, so we allow the municipalities to raise the real estate tax on commercial real estate, which, in turn, solves the blackout that hits them through a reduced share of RUD. So we're also trying to do this on the revenue side, even though, of course, it's not very possible from the opposition to this extent. Second thing. You criticise that our proposal also has great budgetary implications, but we are giving it as an amendment to the Prime Minister's proposal and it is just a third lower with a better impact on household consumption from our point of view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u70	I will now ask for Mr Jan Birke's speech and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be very, very, very brief. Allow me to sign up for the House document 6596, which is from the Ministry of Agriculture's workshop. And, of course, the explanatory note is already its contents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u72	Well, thank you. And now Member Jan Hrnčíř and Mr Roman Kubíček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will just sign up for the amendments that I have already presented in the general debate. They are amendments under 'No'. 6150, 6597, 6599, 6600, 6601, 6602, 6604 and 6605. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u74	Mr Roman Kubíček will now appear and Mr Jakub Janda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will apply to the two amendments by Mr Andrej Babiš and these amendments are deposited in the system as House document 6592 and House document 6613. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u76	I will now ask Mr Jakub Janda to speak and Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u77	Thank you for the floor. I would like to apply to the two amendments tabled by Mr Vojtěch Munzar under No. 6594 and 6595. In fact, this is one amendment in two options. It is proposed to increase the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million. This proposal has already been made several times, so I will not comment much on it. This increase would significantly help reduce the administrative burden on small and small entrepreneurs. Just when the limit is exceeded, the administrative tax burden increases jumping and is much more demanding than it was years ago, for example, due to the inspection report. Due to current inflation, the turnover of CZK 1 million exceeds very slightly and far more traders than in the past. The government has so far rejected the proposal, waiting for a pan-European solution, but there is no time to wait, businessmen and entrepreneurs need help now and especially in the coming months to help start the economy. The variations of the amendments differ in effectiveness - one since mid 2021 and the other since early 2022, so that the government has sufficient time to discuss at European level. The example of other states shows that it is not difficult to negotiate this at European level. It depends only on the willingness of the government of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u78	Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will now appear and prepare Mr Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to sign up for an amendment under House Document No 6617, which concerns the taxation of gambling and should bring about CZK 1.3 billion to the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u80	Mr Marek Výborný will now appear and Mr Petr Dolínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u81	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby refer to the three amendments that I have justified here in the general debate, and these are the amendments under these House numbers: House press No. 6618, concerns the reduction of the tax bonus, House printing 6620 - increase of the discount on the child, and House printing 6621 - increase of the discount on the taxpayer. [[document]] [[document]] [[document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u82	Mr Petr Dolínek will now appear and Mr Pavel Blažek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u83	Thank you. I hereby submit to proposals 6637, 6625, 6628, 6588, 6748 and 6749. [[correct 6478]] [[correct 6479]] And I have one comment about the Vice Prime Minister, and very decent, I think. I don't think he's got any winners in the food business, or in the flats. Whether it's set up or not, never, and you mentioned it correctly, some group of employees won't be completely satisfied. And unfortunately, it's impossible to achieve a perfect condition. I could argue that the system that's proposed in the law is going to reload the strings, and we all know how we can talk about chains, that they can be connected to someone and stuff like that. On the other hand, there is an adequate reservation about the free treatment of money that someone earns. Again, there may be a reservation on why to exempt from income tax something that is to be involved in the free market and is not intended for any purpose, because the State has liberated something that is supposed to at least lead to the comfort of employees, to improve working conditions and so on. That's why I'm glad we're running this in a material way. And I made it clear, we're gonna talk about it for the next three weeks, and then he's gonna win something, and then we have to respect that. I just hope you're right in that employers realize that this satisfied employee is more important than optimization from the accountants, and that the chain realizes that what Makro has just done, and you have it in your emails, that on October 28th, they are inviting people to a discounted kettle and a low-priced alcohol only because this House, designed by YES and some others, has allowed Makro to open the public holidays, and that it will not be repeated even worse in the state of the food and food business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u84	Mr Pavel Blažek will now appear and Mr Tomáš Martínek and Mrs Vostrá will be the last to be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u85	Good evening. I am only going to sign up for amendments by colleagues who are not present. All three proposals have been duly substantiated in writing and are under the responsibility of Mr Stanjura for document number 6591 and 6593 and Mr Marek Benda number 6614. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u86	Mr Tomáš Martínek will now appear and prepare Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendment, House document number 6644, which concerns the abolition of the minimum assessment base for the CFI for 2021. It is justified directly in the document. This is actually social insurance, it is a form of taxation, which is why I would like to present here this proposal, which should help entrepreneurs who do not reach income as they normally achieved, because next year we can expect to slowly revive the economy, and this is actually one form of targeted support, when those who really do not have income would not have to pay a minimum assessment base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u88	So now, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u89	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to sign up to my amendment under number 6629, which is an amendment to Amendment A7 contained in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. The reasons are in writing part of this proposal. And then let me read one more proposal, what is a legislative technical correction that needs to be loaded and modified by the wording of two points in Amendment A7 to Part twenty-first, as follows: Points 5 and 6 are to be read correctly: 5. In the present part of the twenty-first, the article XXXI point 5 is new: "5. In Article 130c (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 CZK 2,721 is replaced by CZK 2,86." 6. In the present part of the twenty-first, the article XXXI point 6 is new: "6. In Article 130c (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 CZK 2,86 is replaced by CZK 3.'; This amendment will ensure that both amendments apply correctly to the text of printing 910. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u90	I will look around to see if there is any more interest in the debate in detail. I don't see anybody, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur, I do not see interest, I end the second reading of this proposal and pass on the proceedings of the meeting. Mr Leo Luzar still wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have announced, we will shorten today's break for the club meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u92	Okay. Before I hand over the proceedings, I am declaring a break at the request of the KSČM MP for ten minutes, so I'll see you here at 8:13 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-005-051.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue on the agenda. The next item is the item number
