ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and on the amendment of certain laws (water law), as amended, and other related laws /house print 556/ - second reading I will first ask the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, and then the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, to speak with the opening word. I will ask Mr Karel Tureček to take his place at the rapporteur's table. I remind you that we are at second reading on this law, and what I said before the agenda is likely to affect the course of this discussion. As soon as my colleague Tureček takes his seat at the rapporteur's table and the situation in the House calms down, so that the Minister of Agriculture can speak in an environment appropriate to the seriousness of the subject... Before I give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture, my colleague to vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'm just here to approve the agenda for the Steno Record meeting. I'm not questioning the vote, but I accidentally pressed for a yes instead of a yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u3	That's Mrs. Krutáková's performance. It will be noted in the log. And now I will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, for the opening word for second reading. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce the Government's amendment to Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on Waters, and other related laws. This submitted material was drawn up together with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and is based on the concept of protection against droughts for the territory of the Czech Republic, which was approved by the Government on 24 July 2017 No. 528. In the context of the drought period, the proposed amendment first introduces new concepts of drought and water deficiencies. The obligation to prepare a dry-management plan is introduced, the water use priorities for the purposes of drawing up a dry-use plan are set up and the authorities for the management, composition and competence of droughts and water shortages are established. Another major amendment to the Water Act is, for example, the introduction of an obligation to measure the amount of surface and groundwater collected at least a thousand cc per year or a hundred cc per month and to transmit the results of the measurement to the river basin manager. The proposal also contains an amendment to the Act on the jurisdiction of the State Physical Reserve Administration, which regulates the conditions for the provision and use of state material reserves for the resolution of emergencies. This law also includes an amendment to the Crisis Management Act, which relates to the need to divide the competences of the authorities for drought and crisis authorities. It also contains an amendment to the Water and Sewerage Act. In particular, the aim is to enable water operators to respond by limiting drinking water to declare a water shortage in accordance with the Water Act. [[Nesroz.]] The amendments adopted are in line with the concept of the petitioner. I must say that they will contribute to the improvement of this government bill, which is why I agree with them. The Law was discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and was also discussed by the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. And now I'm going to ask the Environment Minister Richard Brabec for his opening word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief because Minister Toman said, as at first reading, a key description of what the new water law is revolutionary in, when the so-called "water bill." The dry head finally solves what legislation has only dealt with in the event of floods so far, and thus sets out the clear competences of state administration, self-government, as well as the responsibility of individual parties in the event of impending drought as preventive measures and specific emergency measures in the event of water shortages. There's been a wide discussion on the gessional committees, and I'm sure it's going to take place here. Not everything, of course, has a match. As the Ministry of the Environment, we are ready to support some amendments. I'm gonna say one thing. I'm sorry he went over the proposal, but it's gonna be another debate to weaken the role of water law enforcement. On the contrary, I see those water authorities as very important authorities for the future, which, of course, also... We are planning and preparing a methodology for them, and very soon we will introduce the revolutionary system we call the HAMR. It is a revolutionary information system that will be a tool for the water authorities to have information about all sources and all water collections there, and they can actually draw some fundamental conclusions from that, let's say, from the point of view of authorising new collections. I consider this to be very important, because in the past it was so that almost everyone who went by got permission to take water, because of course it was logical that there was enough water everywhere, especially the groundwater, and today we see in hundreds of places in the Czech Republic that it is necessary to prioritize the collections, that by far not everyone at the moment they want to take water, so they get it in case of lack of water. So the new law responds to the fact that the situation has changed dramatically, that we are far from dealing with only floods, although now we are, but that the more and more we will be dealing with drought and its effects, which may be creepier, but even more dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. And I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 556/1 to 6. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and, at the same time, the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Karel Tureček, to inform us of the committee discussions and to justify any amendments. I will also ask that a colleague of Vojtěch Munzar be prepared. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to brief you on the discussion of this House press in the Committee on Agriculture. On 5 February, the Agricultural Committee suspended the negotiations and set a deadline for the submission of amendments, which was then discussed on 15 April and adopted a comprehensive resolution containing these amendments. In short, it is in particular a set of amendments that address the issue of technical security supervision and their incorporation directly into the provisions of the Water Act. So far, it's only been treated in methodical instruction. And, of course, he was dealing with the launch issue... I'd say... Nay, it is not a weakening of the competence of the water authorities. However, by introducing a new head, a head into a water law dealing with drought to the same level as the flood issue is addressed in the water law, this paragraph seemed somewhat redundant to us because it would, I would say, transfer from a political level to an official decision-making level, from the level of the bodies that are established in terms of the Water Act - I mean the Dry Commission, whether at local, regional or national level. In this regard, it seems redundant and duplicated. That's probably the water bill, his farm committee hearing. The Committee on the Environment has also discussed this House press twice. First of all, February 19th and April 1st. On the first of April, he adopted a resolution rejecting most of the amendments tabled and merely identifying himself with one amendment, when, in Section 5, he introduced a new Section 5a rather misleading definition of the objectives of protecting surface and groundwater and their economical use. That's all on my part for the introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u9	I thank Mr Karel Turečk for his news report. And I will now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee of Mr Vojtěch Munzar to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u10	Yes, thank you, Mr President. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee began to discuss this press on 20 February and at its meeting on 29 April 2020, it discussed and adopted one amendment, which reads as follows - that point 9 of the first Article is deleted. It is, in fact, a return to the original version of Section 12, which speaks of the fact that the water authorities, with their unilateral administrative discretion, could revoke and change existing permits with water. [[loading]] This means that the economic committee considered it to be the introduction of an element of uncertainty into the applicable permits for water management and uncertainty for operators handling water. It seems to us that the amendment of the existing § 12 according to the existing standards still seems sufficient in relation to § 109, which talks about a similar matter. Therefore, the Economic Committee adopted this amendment and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House Press 556 just as amended by this approved amendment. At the same time, the Economic Committee authorised me, as rapporteur of the Committee, to carry out legislative technical amendments in the draft law, which have no impact on the substance of the proposed law, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to instruct me to present a report on the results of this draft law in the Economic Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and to instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, rapporteur, for your intelligence report. I can therefore open a general debate to which nine Members and Members are now enrolled. We begin with Mrs Dana Balcarová's performance. Jakub Janda will be ready. My colleague, you're logged in, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk about the amendment to the Water Act. It's a law from the Department of Agriculture workshop. It's a government novel. For me, it was a bit disappointing that it did not deal with measures against drought, but it only deals with one part, which is the management of drought and water shortages. So I am heading to areas that I find very important and important with my amendments and which need to be dealt with right now, not waiting for the government to present us with a strong and comprehensive water amendment. The first amendment aims to increase the protection of drinking water sources, both underground and water reservoirs, by better specifying water protection zones, which at the moment have serious shortcomings. They are often defined from the table without the necessary surveys and studies. As far as groundwater is concerned, protection is often not addressed at the site of their creation, but only at the place of their capture. Unlogically, protection at the moment does not apply to the interior of cities or even risky industrial areas. In many cases, protection zones are not at all registered in the cadastral, and land users often do not even know that they operate on drinking water sources. Prohibitions and limits are ambiguous and uncontrollable. Above all, there is no question of protecting the abundance of water resources. Therefore, I am proposing an amendment that should be set up so that the water zones are clearly defined and really ensure protection of water resources against contamination by pesticides, chemical substances, as well as pine trees. [[Protection?]] Today there is also the problem of residual elements from used medicines. At the same time, water resources are often damaged by human activity, often very, or unintentionally, but water resources need to be protected against this damage as well. That is where my first amendment is headed. The second amendment concerns the obligation of the flow manager and the owner of the buildings to keep these buildings on the flow at all costs, according to the original documentation, even if it is in complete conflict with current knowledge of the need to slow the water drains from the landscape, increase its retention and protection of biodiversity. There is a need to find a clear line between the necessary maintenance of meaningful buildings and, on the contrary, senseless clinging to maintenance in the past of brutally regulated troughs, which in the meantime, with the help of natural processes itself and for free revitalized and started again to fulfil its function in the landscape. One of the many deterrent examples is the repair of the technical regulation of the riverbed of the Serbian creek on Domažlicka, which was brought to my attention by farmers who manage the locality. We have also addressed this issue on the Committee on the Environment. These are my two amendments. One aims to protect sources of drinking water and the other to maintain a sustainable way of repairing or maintaining water structures in the landscape. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mrs Dana Balcarová. Mr Jakub Janda will now appear, Jana Krutáková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the amendment to the so-called Water Act, which has arrived from the government and which is very large as far as legislative regulations are concerned. However, together with a fellow Member, Ilona Mauritzová, we have come to the conclusion that, despite some of the essentials contained in this amendment, there is something missing. That is why we have tabled two amendments, which we believe will help to a large extent by two important sectors of the Czech economy, and this is sport watering and water tourism. Let me explain what led us to this. I hope I can convince you of their support. This is not just about the initiative of two Members, but about the interest of hundreds of thousands of residents of the Czech Republic. To be more specific, it's about 670 thousand watermen, not just the recreational ones. The Czech Republic, as an inland state, is already in a very traditional way engaged in water sports and we have a unique system of water sports, especially children's sections, whether it is protected by the Vodák Union, the Czech Canoeist Union, or Junák or other youth organisations. Perhaps the branches of some of you even go to them and practice the water sports. Last but not least, we also have successful top athletes in this sport sector, who bring medals from world championships and Olympics, but paradoxically, there are no terrains where they could train, and this is certainly not a marginal issue. However, water sports enthusiasts encounter a lot of obstacles in practice on the waterways, literally. There are places on public waterways that cannot be overcome either by water or by land, at least safely, as far as possible comfortably and without violating the rights of the owners of the surrounding land. Such a typical example is small hydro power plants, whose fence often hits the river, and the watermen have to climb the surrounding shore with the boats. In addition, it often makes it difficult for sailors to have a small flow of rivers, reduced not only by natural influences, but mainly by human intervention. I have nothing against small water plants. The effort of their operators for clean energy and energy self-sufficiency is very sympathetic. Likewise, as a Member of the Conservative Party, I will always defend the rights of individuals, but in this case it is clear that the situation is shifted to a different, sometimes even absurd level. After all, the river is a public road, so it is not possible for an individual to prevent it from being conquered, or even overcome by the shore around obstacles. The watermen themselves even report cases where the owner of the hydropower plant fired an air rifle after the scout's children's squad. That is why we propose that the owner of the said waterworks on the tourist rivers, respectively. Whoever hinders it has made it possible for the watermen to overcome it, whether by his own means or by the adjacent land. The problem is that when he has built the barrier there, he should also think about those he is blocking in the way, as detours on the road can be solved. Of course, this provision would not apply where it would be unnecessary or where it would mean unbearable costs. In order to overcome another possible complaint, this would not entail any financial burden for the state undertakings of the river basin. They have their power plants mostly off water routes and this new proposal would apply only to new permits issued. [[11.00 hours]] Our second proposal relates to the so-called adaptation of minimum residual flow in rivers. It is very important in relation to water tourism and water sports. Again, in practice, we often encounter low values on the rivers that the section below the sampling point - these are the jews - is impassable. For watermen, it means that they have to drag their ships hundreds of meters and sometimes even miles of empty or half-empty trough. The reason for this is, for example, the aeration scars built by developers. When we think about it, it certainly is wrong for only one interested person to be preferred for surface water and for public interests to be ignored. Therefore, we propose that, in addition to the function of the watercourse, the possibility of recreational sailing should also be taken into account in the law. In order to avoid any possible objections, the word option instead of duty is there precisely because we are aware that it does not have to go everywhere. Local conditions should always be taken into account. Nor does it necessarily mean that the flow in the river has to increase. Somewhere would be enough to deepen the trough under the lake, or just temporarily, before the ships pass through, open a sports pass. There's always a reasonable solution. At the outset, I said we were interested in hundreds of thousands of water sports fans. But that would not be accurate, because there are also economic aspects. There are about 150 small hydro power plants on the tourist rivers, which account for about 0,02 percent of energy production. On the contrary, a number of other services and job opportunities, be it boat rentals, restaurants, camps, and travel agencies, are linked to the watering. The whole sector generates billions of turnovers and is an important source of revenue for public budgets. Therefore, even abroad, there is maximum support for this sport on the tourist rivers, because people naturally sport, the tourist attractiveness of regions and services offered, which brings considerable income to local communities and promote employment in often remote parts of regions. I therefore hope that you will consider all our arguments in the vote and support our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mrs Jana Krutáková will now speak in the general debate, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dry after rain. This is the characteristic of these days, and I am glad that we have reached this issue of catastrophic situation here in the House and we can dedicate this topic to today's extraordinary meeting. The movement of the Mayors and the independent drought is solved long and intensively. I am now talking not only about our concerns in cities and municipalities, which are introducing effective measures at municipal level, planting trees, digging pools, supporting dozens of activities that help both the Czech landscape and neighbourly relations, but also here at the highest political level we regularly present proposals aimed at protecting water or implementing effective instruments that will help us in this long run. Today, at second reading, we are returning to the amendment to the Water Act, which has been in the House system for almost a year. The main theme of this novel is the so-called "dry head" that should fight against drought. However, I believe that these proposals only address the consequences and not the causes. We therefore attach four amendments to this government bill, which may aim to improve the proposal a little and which I would like to present to you briefly. The first amendment responds to insufficient legal support for accumulation and use of precipitation water from buildings, unjustified differences in the requirements for indirect discharge of waste water into groundwater and specifies legal uncertainty in the use of precipitation and waste water for the plot of land. This amendment therefore seeks to address the shortcomings of legislation that prevent the government's concept of protection against drought consequences for the Czech Republic and the National Action Plan on adaptation to climate change. We also allow better compliance with the requirements of the circular economy. The second amendment concerns the discharge of waste water containing no defective substance. In it, I specify the building objects that can discharge these waters and I also specify under what conditions. In the third amendment, I propose the introduction of a new amendment point, which will correct the possibilities for treatment of purified waste water and specify the areas of re-use of water. The possibilities of re-use of water are much wider than the current version of the amendment and it would be a shame not to use it. This means that water recycled would also be included in addition to surface and underground water sources. The fourth amendment amends the article of the amendment on the competence of the water authority in water management. These proposed changes affect § 12 and aim to combat drought more effectively, which is actually one of the main pillars of the proposed amendment to the law. I will then sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl will now appear, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, citizens' democrats did not deliberately speak at the beginning before the agenda was discussed, because we knew that we had finally agreed to discuss this material at all. Let me just mention the fact that we are civil democrats, and I think we were not alone, they suggested that we discuss this bill in October of last year, and despite the declared priority that the government ministers here say is a priority, so you have rejected it several times as a solid point at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. I'm just suggesting a little bit that maybe it's not exactly fair what's going on here. However, I am glad and I want to thank you for being able to agree that at least in the form of an emergency meeting, we are able to discuss these key laws. And if I were to quote here - because I wrote down some quotes from Minister Toman, who is currently on the phone, who said right here on the microphone that the meeting was useless, I think he denied himself. If the government's laws are to be discussed, then I don't understand this contradiction. We're discussing laws, government bills, and the Minister of Agriculture here also says it's useless. It's no use. We should have discussed the water bill last year, too, because we're wasting our time. Minister Brabec said here, and I agree with him on one thing that it is not true that the government would do nothing. That is true, and in this some of my previous speakers may have been unjust to you, but the truth is, it's slow and it's not enough. That's what I'm convinced of, and I'll try to prove it. Just as it is not true, Minister of the Environment, that drought and drought only started to work on the subject six years ago. That's not true. And it's certainly not true that it's not conceptual. Land adjustments, which is one of the important tools for dealing with drought, have been here since the year - Minister Toman may know - 1993, 1994, or so. It's one of the key instruments we have. Which, by the way, I must remind you, when, as opposed to us, we proposed strengthening the budget of land adjustments in the debate on the state budget, so you rejected it, although it is a priority, a solution to drought. But good for you. There is at least an amendment to the Land Treatment Act, which, at least as I listen to my colleagues at the Committee on Agriculture, we consider important and one of the most effective tools, one of the most effective tools to work with the landscape and what to do with the landscape. So please let's not say there was never anything conceptual here, that when you guys got here, that's when things started to work out. [[11.10 hours]] Maybe there's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. In 2012 - and this was at the time, as the Minister of the Environment rightly said, when drought issues were almost not discussed here - we introduced erosion monitoring, regular erosion monitoring, impact recording, the Minister of Agriculture had information on how erosion looks every week at the meeting and prepared the documentation to address erosion. A colleague of Farskýý here today said very wise words concerning erosion, since the territory of the Czech Republic is about 50 per cent of agricultural land, about 50 per cent endangered by erosion. [[repeats with emphasis]] And the fact that we just don't have a tool for those who don't follow the rules of management - and the Minister of Agriculture said it here too, not everyone follows the rules, some of them do, and some of them need to be defended, but some of them don't... I know how difficult it was to set up that erosion decree. The Minister of the Environment, when I imagined last year, interrogated him, why, when he was ready from 2017, that means, we don't have an instrument that the state would be able to deal with when someone is mismanagement, and I have several of those cases, the Minister of the Environment here has promised me publicly that by 30. Six will be. And it's not. And it won't. Now we have a new deadline 31. 12. I am intensively communicating with the mayor of Lety, who is no longer alone today, it becomes common because what is happening today in nature, what is happening today also in connection with the rains that are coming, so the land shifts, movements and the loss of the agricultural soil fund are caused by significant water erosion. You certainly know situations across the political spectrum where a huge number of masses of land have moved and have shifted somewhere, which is the case of Let, which are unable to address it on the grounds that we do not have an erosion decree that clearly points to legislative measures, to the disabilities of the culprits, but also to ensure that the situation does not recur. So even though the government is declaring what the priority of dealing with drought is, the tools, the specific things we need, we just don't have. It's a mistake. A specific thing that can really help us significantly. And if my colleague Farskýý here said very well that the loss of the agricultural soil fund, these are the 2018 figures, represent roughly CZK 10 billion, it is in the report by the Ministry of the Environment on the state of water management - and not having this instrument, so it is, excuse me, Minister, but irresponsibleness. You just have to get your officials to do something, because that's a concrete measure that we all agree on, even if it's hard, I admit, between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment, but when you finally agree on something, I really don't understand why it's not here yet. It was mentioned here - I would quote the Minister again, who might explain... The Minister of the Environment here says - I will find it: Rainbow is up to people, we can't order them dešťovka, said Minister Brabec. In the Water Act - the Government's proposal - it is an obligation that anyone who newly builds their housing is obliged to have Rainbow. In municipalities, small towns, where mostly houses are built, no panels, maybe there is no problem, the vast majority of people are already dealing with the situation somehow. We who live in the village know this because the barrels attached by various mechanisms to the gutters etc., gutters, that's perfectly common and a large part of the people living in the villages do it. I don't know how, like, here in Prague, if you tear down some house between houses, how technically you're gonna do those huge tanks, or those precautions you're gonna have to do there. I come up with an amendment that makes it possible that, in situations where this is an unsolvable matter, those administrative authorities which will allow a new construction or reconstruction of the building permit for which it will be necessary are not subject to obligations which they will not be able to fulfil. I think we could try to separate ourselves somehow, because sometimes technically it just won't be possible at all, and it would be a shame to stop living. Even if we put in that obligation, we have to assume that this housing proposal will make people more expensive. It won't be purely up to them as they do today, and maybe they're taking advantage of the subsidies through the Rainbow program, which is okay, I'm absolutely not chasing the program, but in the amount of water we're missing, of course, this isn't going to save us. And I hope the Minister of the Environment is convinced of that. The Law of Waters - and it's already been said by one of my previous speakers, Section 12, with what he comes up with. He comes up with a term of decision out of the office. Today, companies that use water resources and use them in agreement with the state have been given some kind of authorisation on the basis of an administrative decision and are obliged to behave accordingly, the water authorities control it and the system works somehow. The idea of the Ministry of the Environment, regardless of the administrative decision, is official to decide that administrative decisions do not apply, and we are not going to release water at this point. Perhaps there will be another legislative step in the form of a decree, which we did not get at our disposal. And I don't think it's possible to do it this way. In my opinion, the law, and already someone here has said it, should pay more attention to prevention, maybe we should look into the individual decisions, whether they are still feasible or if they are not responding to the state of the water, so that those concerned and who are doing business and especially need surface water for their business, know how to behave in time if the water is declining and is less and less, because the difference between flood and drought is especially that the flood comes from day to day almost, whereas the drought arises for a much longer time, so that those who need surface water are able to prepare for it. And it would be good for the state not to enter there as the powerful one who decides out of official power, but as the one who helps, i.e. looking for some preventive measures and working with those bodies that need water, because we can already see what economic damage the virus has done to us today, how we will probably recover from it as the Czech Republic for a long time, and I think it would be unnecessary now to add water to the fire and make life difficult for others. Since, of course, banks that may be financing certain business entities will take note of the fact that to whom they are lending, it may be out of the office to be prohibited from doing business at that time, and it may pose an existential threat to those involved. [[11.20 hours]] What I'm sorry about is not the Minister of Regional Development here, she doesn't consider it a priority, a solution to the water problem, but I believe that it also falls within her department, because in the territorial plans that municipalities and regions discuss in cooperation with the state and the organisations concerned, they are putting together and planning some development, so in those territorial plans the fact and factor of the water needs in that territory must and should be discovered. It should be included in the territorial plans, where development is still possible from the point of view that the water may not be available, because in practice it is simply impossible to allow further development where I will not be able to, or will not be able to supply sufficient water. The Minister of Agriculture has spoken here, and in this he has our absolute support, it is a matter of linking water systems. This is an issue that is financially demanding, but it turns out that this is the way we have to go. I have some information from the Ministry of Agriculture, and I want to say that you can count on our support there, because only the interconnection of water systems will provide water, and in this case, I know projects personally, are Prague versus Central Bohemia projects that are extremely necessary to each other. But what I'm sorry about is that most of you may not know, but the Minister of the Environment knows it, as well as the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Transport with whom we are discussing it, and that is 750 million ccs of water, the amount is constantly increasing, under Kladno and other municipalities related to it. This lake was formed by mining activities. And in my deep conviction, we're wasting time solving the situation and using the water. I'm sorry I have to say this. We discussed this with the Minister several times, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Industry for a while, because they were arguing about where there was actually a limit to what mining damage and what mining damage wasn't. I would like to draw attention to this issue here and ask that at least the Ministry devotes itself to the situation really intensively, because 750 million ccs is about one third of the Czech Republic's water consumption, and I think it should be extremely worth it to try to use the water in some sensible form. One more comment, I must say, I can't forgive myself when the Minister of the Environment here praised how you managed to change people's minds. I wouldn't overestimate the power of that government. People noticed for themselves that the water wasn't there. People themselves, looking into nature and looking into the well, understood what was going on in nature, and we are now expected to look for solutions, which I personally do not see in putting water protection in the Constitution, that alone will not save us a liter, but when debating specific measures and finding ways to contain the water in the landscape, there we are ready to work together. One of the things we think is simple - we will soon discuss the construction law. In the construction law, the Minister of Agriculture and the Agricultural Committee will definitely propose a number of things that will concern water, simplifying buildings, finding ways to cut off unnecessary bureaucracy in order to build new water tanks, retention tanks and the like. But what we can do quite simply - and I agree with those who said that 320 ponds have already been built or cleaned here somehow, that it is really little and that we have a great chance and that it is enough to simplify it, to help with the retention of water in the countryside by helping owners more, and now I think across, it doesn't matter if it is private, if it is used by the public, it doesn't matter whether it is municipal or regional property, owners of non-production ponds, especially where there aren't expected to be any big profits, to help with the disposal of sludge. With the disposal of the saddle, the mud, because it's often the most demanding, financially demanding surgery. Sometimes it happens, given the sludge decree we talked about on the agricultural committee, and I suspect that even in plenary, what happened in the past, a long time ago, farmers and farmers washed, it means mud, mud from the ponds, so that they could put it in the field, but today, due to contamination, it is necessary to treat the mud not as waste, which means I can't take it out to the field anymore, but sometimes I can't even put it in a plain dump, but I have to take it to the dump of very dangerous waste, which is terrible money. At the moment when the existing pond or water tank does not carry any money, it simply has a function related to the environment, so no one will go for it. And we don't need any building permits to do that, we don't need any super-big bureaucracy to clean up the ponds, and we've increased the capacity to contain water in the landscape, and quite quickly. The dams, as it was said here, the Minister of Agriculture said it wasn't a plan to build the dams, what they presented, but the territory they're proposing to protect. However, we all know from practice that it is not at all easy to build a dam, that it often moves the public, and that even if the particular proposal did not move the public too much, our construction law is so bumpy that we may not be able to get to the construction of a dam in 15 years. We have a chance to take some measures, whether in the area of management, whether in the area of erosion solutions, so in the area of cleaning what we can clean up, thus increasing retention and capacity of existing small water areas. We can do that quickly, and I'd do a lot of work for that. Thank you for your attention and then I will turn to the amendments I tabled in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus should now speak in the order of his appointment in the general debate. I do not see Mr Klaus here, so his application is moving towards the end of the general debate, and that is why Mr Jan Schiller will now appear, and Mr Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I didn't come out of the amazement of how beautifully the ODS here preached to us about the water she had more or less sold during her reign. But okay, let's cut to the chase. I have prepared two amendments to the Water Law. One along with Mrs Pěnčíková. But I'm sure I'll come back to one. I've already lectured him here in plenary once. This is needed, to say the protection of municipal waste water treatment plants, so as to avoid - as little as possible industrial water being carried there. I'm gonna try it again, maybe the last time I lectured, I guess it wasn't understood correctly. We also discussed this on the Environment Committee, where I was glad that it was not only in the waste law, where we want to use the sludge in the field, where, of course, this makes sense if the industrial waters with the heavy water and all that. [[metals?]] And the same was in protecting the water. So I hope and ask the remaining colleagues if they would then support this amendment. [[11.30 hours]] This proposed treatment applies only to municipal sewage treatment plants. It aims to avoid an increasing trend in the disposal of industrial waste, declared as waste water, which is imported externally to municipal sewage treatment plants. These treatment plants are technologically adapted for the disposal of sewage, not for the disposal of industrial waste, which often also contain hazardous and defective substances that are specified as AOXs, carcinogenic substances, heavy metals compounds and petroleum substances which are subsequently released into surface water completely without control. By being declared waste water and disposed of under the Water Act, the quantity or quality of disposals are not regulated, contrary to the strict record of waste disposal under the Waste Act. However, the treatment does not affect the possibility of disposing of waste water on designated industrial water treatment plants, nor is it currently an exceptional disposal of waste on municipal waste water treatment plants under the conditions laid down by the Waste Act. At the same time, the proposal allows seamless disposal of sewage waste water accumulated in the balance tanks, which are known to us by cesspools if such disposal is carried out in accordance with the applicable sewerage rules, and this will facilitate the process of receiving this type of waste water for disposal on municipal sewage treatment plants and increase the availability of places where accumulated water can be exported. A penalty clause was also added, where the amount of possible sanctions fully reflect the significant profit generated in the disposal of waste at the municipal sewage treatment plant compared to the disposal of waste at a specialised plant. That is one amendment. And the second amendment, which concerns the relief chambers, implies the introduction of a derogation from the polluters' obligation to have a permit to discharge waste water from the sewage chambers on the sewer network and on the sewage treatment plants in the agglomerations into thousands of equivalent populations, provided that the amount of light water from these lightening chambers does not exceed 6,000 ccs per year. The category thus combines a set of relief chambers on the sewers and before sewage treatment plants, as discharges from all relief chambers for sources above 1000 equivalent inhabitants will fall under the exemption scheme referred to in point (h), provided that they also comply with the maximum annual water level of 6,000 cubic meters. It is assumed that this exception will be able to benefit from about a thousand agglomerations. The regulation of functions for these and all other relief chambers will generally be addressed by the amendment to Decree No. 428/2001 Coll., which is implemented by Act No. 274/2001 Coll., on waters and sewerage for public use and on the amendment of certain laws. Following this exception, prior to the transitional provision, it is proposed to terminate the authorisations already granted and to suspend the procedure for issuing an authorisation which was initiated and not terminated prior to the application of this Act. The purpose is to unite the legal regime for all polluters in that category. In a detailed debate, I will sign up to these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr Radek Holomčík will now appear, Mr Petr Gazdík will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all of us for approving the agenda for today's meeting. Unlike Minister Toman, I don't think that would be unnecessary. And if we can't discuss anything but this novel, it's still a success, and it made sense. I would like to present three of my amendments. The first one... To begin with, I would like a little controversy with Minister Brabc, who here said that the opposition is not much on the subject of drought, that it was not historically addressed. I would just like to remind you that my first speech in this famous House on January 10, 2018 was about water. At the time, I asked the first government of Andrej Babiš when she asked for confidence when they had water protection in the basic programming document, how they would proceed to our long-term case in gravel sand mining about the Hungarian Ostroh. So much for just making it clear that we're really into it. I deliberately chose this episode because my first proposal concerns Section 28 of the Water Law. It is the definition and protection of so-called. protected areas of natural water accumulation. In short, these territories here are hydrologically, hydrogeologically extremely valuable, and it is certainly right that the water management function, the retention and accumulation of the groundwater, should have an absolute priority over any further management in that territory. I am not entirely satisfied with how the protection takes place in the present form or how it is set up because there has become such an inconvenience. When this water law, which is currently in force, was adopted, the old implementing rules remained in force in relation to protected areas of natural water accumulation, and it actually brings about quite confusion and ambiguity in the decision-making process. Our proposal changes the paragraph so that the water has a clear priority. We are basically changing the principle of protecting those areas into that we have, or defining certain activities that should not be done there, or they should in some way be set up by the implementing regulation, and then we define a large number of activities that should not be done there at all, but we give the Ministry of the Environment the option in justified and clearly specified cases to decide in favour of other economic activities. We are aware that these areas are taking up not a very small part of our country's surface area and that any activity could not be right from the point of view of territorial development and other things. It must also be said that in these areas there is a significant part of the sites such as gravel, gravel sand. It would also have led to the fact that not even a tart can be mined here anymore, so we're handing the Ministry a tool, how, where the real interest is different than water protection, it will make sense. [[is]] It's partly inspired by the case of our famous gravel sandstone in the south of Moravia. I believe that if the law, as I suggest it, were to apply, it would probably not have happened. And the second proposal, which I would like to imagine, concerns the publication of data from records on surface and groundwater. In Section 21 of the Act, the Ministry is obliged to register a number of information on the state of surface waters, the state of groundwater, and we want to add a sentence in this section that this information will be published in machine-readable data mode. This is based on a government-approved information strategy, which states that all public data for which this is possible should be published in the Open Data Standard. I consider it important for two reasons. First, in general, the more data about the landscape we will have and the more of this data will be available, the better we will be working on some prediction. But the data also have a certain commercial utility within various applications. And the second reason, and that's the main thing for me, I'm aiming mainly at mapping, registering, and just publishing the location and location of the meliorations that we've been talking about today. And I consider this to be such a first step in making use of the melioration to hold water and to some more meaningful management in the landscape. I'm not a fan of the fact that they should all be dug up or blinded. I think that in many places the legacy of our ancestors, which is in that landscape in the form of melioration, is going to work with it as well as in the fight against drought. But we need to know where they are. So this is step one. We are going to focus on the theme of the Melioration over the holidays and after the holidays, and I think that the works that are already in the country can really help in our fight against drought. [[11.40 hours]] The third proposal I propose here concerns the use of the so-called grey water to make it easier in buildings that are e.g. public or office buildings, and in others work just with grey water to make it easier to obtain permission. Because the fact that this water here is not enshrined in the law is not specified, so when obtaining a building permit, investors also encounter the need to conduct quite a long procedure with the regional health administration. And he's actually stalling, and a lot of people are demotivating it. So we want to remove this legislative barrier. I am aware that in order to ensure some hygiene standard and to protect public health, it is necessary in implementing regulations to adjust the parameters of grey water so that it can circulate in those objects. I also know that the Ministry of Health is addressing the project via TA CR at this point, when it is trying to define optimal hygienic parameters, but I would like to send a signal to builders, investors, the public that grey water is of great importance, that we want to facilitate the circulation of once-used water in buildings in the future, and set the deadline for taking effect so that the Ministry of Health can complete this project without any problem and have time to write implementing regulations. So I think it's an expression of ambition when we really say yes to the public, we're interested in water use and water savings, but we're also doing it in a way that is feasible for the Ministry of Health. That's my three suggestions. I would just like to conclude by reminding you of what has already been said here. We introduced our plan today. We're dealing with water now! and these three proposals, whether it be the management of grey water, whether it be a plan for mapping and the subsequent use of meliorations, as well as stricter protection of hydrologically valuable areas, are part of the plan, so we implement it on the same day that we introduced it. And that's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr. Petr Gazdík will now appear, Mr. Jaroslav Holík will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u24	Dear Minister, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members, first of all, I would like to thank the fact that the agenda for this meeting has been approved, that we can deal with the matter of drought. And I would also like to thank the Minister of the Environment, because apparently the opposition's efforts have moved him towards greater action, and I am very pleased because this should not be about politics, but about the future. I've been mayor for 17.5 years or a village whose name lies. His name is Dry Loz, and we've been doing complex landscaping there for 12 years, and I can tell you in this place that Dry Loz is not really dry due to complex landscaping. All measures of complex land modifications have been implemented and today thanks to ponds, pools, meliaration ridges, clues we are protected both from drought and from lightning floods. Thanks to the cops, thanks to the planting of greenery, windbreakers, belts of roads, it all works and there are things that work. The second thing in which the name lies is a matter concerning the Ministry of Agriculture, because there is a Dry Loz tank in their plan, but it is not in our cadastral and it is not in Suché Loz. And I have one question for the Minister of the Environment and Agriculture. Why, knowing that complex landscaping works, ensuring ecological stability of the territory, fighting not only drought but also floods, why is there so little money on them? Why is there so much money that if the entire Republic were to go through complex land changes, it would take 273 years to finance it at the same time? Two hundred and seventy-three years is a lot, and everyone will recognize that in 40 years of communism, when everything belonged to everyone and nothing to anyone, the landscape has changed significantly, and that is why today we have to make complex land adjustments. And 273 years that would take at present funding, even though we know it works, and my community is proof of that, come and see, everyone will see that it works, and in Suché It doesn't make the loze dry. So I ask, Minister, when will more money go into complex landscaping into the implementation of common facilities? When, finally, 273 years will be reduced to at least 10, 20 years, when it would be relevant. The second thing I would like to ask the Minister of the Environment is his letter, which we received as a community and a city in which the Minister writes to the honourable Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors: "The current drought situation in most of the Czech Republic is not very favourable. I would therefore like to call on you to implement the adaptation measures, which are necessary as far as possible in the fight against drought. As you know, through the National Coalition for the fight against drought, we coordinate a number of activities from legislative changes to direct financial support for specific areas in order to facilitate the preparation of these adaptation projects as much as possible for municipalities. There is no doubt that agricultural and forestry land plays a key role in adapting to climate change, where measures are financed mainly by the Ministry of Agriculture." Please, Minister, did you send this letter to the board of directors of Agrofert and other large agricultural companies, which can influence their activities significantly, and you know that, the struggle with drought? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Holík will now appear in the debate, Mr Vlastimil Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u26	Mr President, Minister, Mr Ministers, I apologize, fellow Members, fellow Members, good day. If I may, I will only respond a little at the outset to the words of my previous speaker, Petr Gazdík, through Mr President. Petr, there's been socialism here for 40 years. Communism hasn't been here yet. But I took a turn, and now I get my own message. The vital fluid in the human body is blood. And the same function in nature is held by water. Water is a fundamental condition of life on this planet Earth. And if we destroy the sources of drinking water, life on Earth will die. I'm from the Zlín Region, and sometimes it feels like we're doing everything we can just to make this life go away. Last weekend I took part in a march at Uherský Ostroh, where a gravel pit is to be created in the natural accumulation area. The same problem is in the Holešov area. The former airport is a huge accumulation area of water that flows from the visionary mountains. And there's an industrial zone where we want to build 51 fabric. Guys, we're crazy! The zone currently supplies 30,000 people with drinking water. And its capacity is to supply up to 100,000 people. So I consider water protection to be our priority, and I want water protection to be enshrined in the law. To make it clear that conscious damage to water resources must be regarded as a criminal offence. Water must not become an asset of making profit and all the money we get from water distribution should be returned to the protection of water resources and must not end up in the dealer's accounts. [[11.50 hours]] So, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, water is a strategic raw material, and I think it should return to the state, that the state should buy it back. I don't see why Čech have to buy Czech water from foreign companies. I'll show you a table here. [[It's happening.]] It is how much money goes for selling Czech water. I confess, it's not a joyful reading. Anyone you want, I'll give it to you. So if I may, I'd like to go back to this law one more time and to my thoughts that conscious damage to water resources must be considered a crime and that the money we get from water distribution must be returned to that water. Therefore, I am asking all of you to support my Amendment No. 5738, which I will read in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Vojtěch Pikal, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. I did not think I would speak in this debate, but I must respond to the two things that have been said here. If we run out of drinking water, life on the planet will not die, only humans. [[Glee in the hall.]] I think it's important to make a distinction. And then I would like to point out that damage to the water supply is already a criminal offence, either through negligence or intentionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil apologizes today from 14.30 to 19.00 for work reasons. Mr Vlastimil Válek's speech is now in order, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I allow myself to build on a slightly lightened atmosphere and thank the foreman through you, we really didn't have communism for 40 years here, we had socialism, thank you for the clarification. On the other hand, we have been moving forward towards communism by moving forward, taking a step backwards. It's already been bad enough and please God if there's that communism. But I took a turn. I assume the others will follow up. I'd like to get back to the water. And this is where the first performances fell, who actually mentioned water in the first place. I was looking at the date of the birth of my predecessors, so I have the oldest biological advantage now, because when I say that I mentioned the problem of drought first, as the oldest of all performers, it's hard to be denied, but it's not true. I found that the drought mentioned in Kosmův chronicle. I would like to quote: "It is a strange thing," says Kosmas, "and it can be considered how high this land is shutting down, not a foreign river flows into it, but all flows small and large, taken by the arch into a larger river, which is called the Elbe, flowing all the way to the North Sea." So much for Kosmův chronicle. And there is already debate on the issue of drought, draining water from the Czech Republic, which is why I greatly appreciate having the opportunity as an MEP to participate in this law, to participate in amendments, of which I am very happy to support a large part, and to participate in the fact that this time the Chamber of Deputies is not only theoretically but also practically taking the issue of drought seriously seriously. Trouble from my point of view, dryness is like health. Every time an important person dies of cancer, there is a wave of preventive examinations that fade very quickly. We all know we're supposed to take precautions, we all know we're supposed to investigate, we all know we're supposed to go to screening, no one's doing it, most people start doing it when they get sick, and it's too late. It's the same with drought. My previous speakers have repeatedly mentioned that the fact that it's raining, that maybe in a week or two, there will be local floods, doesn't change the fact that the water is disappearing from the landscape, not because of us, but because of us. If we don't start doing something about it now, given how Kosmas wrote, the situation we're in, our children, our descendants, not only will they have a big problem, but they will have an unsolvable problem. It is very good that the Chamber of Deputies has decided to solve the problem. I hope that we will move very quickly from second reading to third reading and that it will not happen that this law will not reach the end of the term until the third reading, which I would very much regret. I believe that law has a lot of positive places. I believe that a number of amendments are very useful, and I would very much like this law not to become a policy, but to make it really something that will help not only farmers, not only water farmers, not only citizens, but everyone who lives in this country, keep water in the countryside and achieve that water, which is really extremely important and it is the rarest liquid, is not the liquid available in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka has applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to follow up actually on what I said here in the introductory words before approving this extraordinary meeting's programme, namely on some specific proposals in the area of the amendments that we are making to the amendment to the Water Act, with amendments aimed first in the opening part of the law, in order to clearly highlight the need for water protection and water resources in the Czech Republic, and further on the water law, so that we can address the melioration issue so that we can map the melioration systems, put them in the real estate register, so that the owners know that they have at all the melioration system on their property, so that whoever buys the land, maybe, has this information. Therefore, I propose that by 2025, a mapping of the melioration systems be carried out, that this activity be carried out by the State Land Office and that it initiates the introduction of this information into the real estate register. I understand that we cannot fully transfer these obligations to the owner, so we also say in other amendments that if the owner comes and asks for verification of the information on whether there is a melioration system on his property, so that the State Land Office will carry out this for him free of charge. I think that the five-year deadline is quite long enough to manage to that extent quite without a problem. Of course, there are obligations that, if the owner does not do so, there is also certain sanctions, as in other measures, also against water management structures, where the owner also has similar obligations and has resulting sanctions. At the same time, since we are talking about the issue of drought, I am also using this situation to make an adjustment that will also concern some of the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund, because this is also related to water and water resources. And these are the things that are just about protecting valuable agricultural land, so that it is not stopped, so that it is not removed, so that in those cases that are so widely known, whether it be gravel-sand mining, it is clear that such land simply cannot be removed. This land deserves protection because of its valuable quality, bonitas, but also because it is simply a source of water retention, water leaking into the lower layers, and also ensuring that the whole locality, which is in Hungary-Ostrizsko, can function as a valuable source of drinking water for more than 140,000 people. So it is a series of several amendments that should lead to the goal of protecting more water, water resources, promoting a larger supply of ground water, flooding, but also protecting the land from the pointless stopping of logistics centres, industrial zones, shopping centres and so on. Whether the investor is simply looking for less bonita land, or ideally, be it oriented towards brownfields, be it oriented to existing industrial zones and so on. This is what I think is important for us to be able to put this into the law so that it is clear and clear, and not that there are nowadays loopholes where the law says that soil protection is in the public interest, but someone is able to justify that public interest is, at 2% unemployment, to create another huge industrial zone in a situation where you have unused brownfields, unused existing industrial zones, and so on. That just doesn't make any sense to me. So this is a series of several amendments that we have prepared in this area and we will be filing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u33	Have a nice noon. And now, therefore, in the general debate, Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková is signed up and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u34	Good noon, exactly noon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the submitted Government amendment to the Water Act, because it is a very and very beneficial amendment. I am very glad that most of the company has already understood the price of water, which is the price of life, as many have already spoken about it before me. But, friends, when I pointed out the problems of water shortages after 2002 in the Senate, because scientists were already telling us that this might be a problem, even though we were dealing with floods at the time, my colleagues, Mr Bendl, were laughing at me. The key, however, was 2003 and 2015, which showed drought problems in nature, i.e. in real life. In those years, social democratic governments initiated activities aimed at preparing a comprehensive set of measures to increase preparedness and prevention of drought effects on society and the environment. The concept of protection against the effects of drought - that is the name of this material - is the result of these activities so far. That's what they say in that government concept, by the way, I quote. Processing In July 2015, Government Resolution 620 imposed a concept of protection against drought consequences in order to prepare measures to mitigate the negative consequences of drought and water shortages. This resolution also contained a number of specific tasks at the time. It was cooperation with the best scientific capacities in the country, with the Academy of Sciences and research institutes, whose outputs then served to formulate the concept. Measures from the concept also meet the objectives of the Strategic Framework Czech Republic 2030 - this is the name of the material - in the area of slowing the water drain from the landscape, maintaining biodiversity, improving soil status, increasing the reliability of water management infrastructure in changing conditions, protecting water resources from contamination, increasing the level of waste water treatment and supporting food production. It all belongs here. In May 2016, Bohuslav Sobotka's government discussed dry material. He solved three stages in time - the first to 2021, the second to 2027 and the third to 2033. This material envisaged CZK 2.4 billion per year for the implementation of the proposed measures. The material contained a mix of solutions as well as the above-mentioned concept. The laws presented are another of those stones to implement this strategy here and these concepts. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome today's debate and the fact that we are dedicated to the topic of water and drought through an extraordinary meeting. But if we started dealing with the water now, as we see from the pirát, it would be really late. It is only a pity that we lost the years between 2006 and 2013, when the work on concepts slowed, if not stopped. But I want to stress one more thing. Ministers Toman and Brabec are truly modest in the account of what is being done now. Since I have been following this issue for years, I would like to appreciate one thing in particular that they have been able to agree that they have been able to work together and work together, and have been able to overcome what really slowed down a little bit of work against how we imagined things would be realized. The Minister of Agriculture, Mr Toman and the Minister of the Environment, Mr Brabec, were able to overcome the Ministry of Agriculture and that is really very valuable. And the results are on the table. It's almost a miracle that they did it. And I believe they will continue the miracle. I therefore also believe that we all agree not only on these two amendments to the water law at the moment, but also on a useful and very necessary constitutional law, which will address the water issue and on which, as is known, the government is already working, and I believe that as soon as possible it will arrive in the House, that it will also respect the constitutional law, which is mentioned here by the opposition. This thing must be of common interest. We can't really play who's from here. This is the real interest of all citizens of this country and the future of this country. I am convinced that the proposed constitutional law must then give water a position and a price that water has for life itself. It must always be clear that water is more than sand. But that would be another debate that would respond to what's going on in the county. I believe we can work this out. And once again, I beg the support of both government novels. And I believe that we will move the matter forward together. And thank you to the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u35	I will now request the speech of Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Mr Václav Klaus is not present, so his application will be forfeited and we will request a speech from Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, let me also say for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and for myself that we welcome the fact that the amendment to the Water Act has finally been discussed, that is to say Act No. 254/2000 Coll., on Water, and that we do not underestimate by far the question of water, availability of water resources and the threat of drought that comes in the coming years. Then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for a small amendment, which is based on a certain fact, which has been addressed to me by the citizens of the adjacent municipalities of Sobotecka, but also to Mělnicka and some others. When I generalize this in one particular example, there was a paradoxical situation where the Water Authority may not have fully fulfilled the expectations that were expected of it, to ensure drinking water for the given municipalities and did not evaluate the state well, however, it had the support in legal regulation at that time, i.e. in the form of the Water Act, the Water Act. And I think that now is a certain time to focus on such moments, which can be very difficult for the communities and their inhabitants at some point. [[12.10 hours]] What was that about? Originally in Vlčí Poli and in Horní Bousov around Kosti, where large sets were planned, a water tank with a capacity of 4,000 ccs of water. In 2017, the setters requested permission for a new tank with a capacity of 40,000 cc, i.e. ten times more capacity, because the existing water was not enough for them to water. To begin with, I would like to inform you that the owner or shareholder of the orchards was said to have been connected with the director of the FIO bank and from the beginning was also dealt with by all the municipal and municipal authorities concerned in Sobotka. Regarding the situation when the tank was built last year. There was a loss of lower waters and thus of the neighboring inhabitants of Kdanic. The luck is that the town of Sobotka managed at least to secure the money for the construction of the water supply, which was completed subsequently in October 2019. It is true that the whole of the anabasa created a great deal of helplessness in the surrounding municipalities and in the construction office, including complaints submitted to both the police and the Department of Environment in Jičín. And it took quite a long time for the whole thing to start to work out. Experience leads me to think that there is much more to this situation, especially in the field of planting, because, of course, the area that requires building or reclamation of new orchards, drinking water consumption, and there may be a conflict of interest, and it also occurs, between the irrigation of these orchards and drinking water useful, which should primarily be addressed to the municipalities. From this point of view, I am trying to put in my amendment a small provision concerning the relevant part where point four is inserted as point three of the Government's proposal. In Part Four, in Paragraph 8 per para. 1 the following paragraph 2 is inserted: Authorisation for the collection or accumulation of water may be issued only because of the necessary use of water as drinking water for the supply of the population where it is not possible to connect the dwelling to the water supply for public use. The present paragraphs 2 to 4 shall then be referred to as 3 to 5. The following points are numbered. So it is not a proposal that absolutely forbids the use of water, drinking water for example for irrigation, agricultural purposes, preparation, but creates an alternative; in the event that no other water can be provided for the municipality, the priority of drinking water and its provision for the municipalities, and thus for citizens, would have the value of significantly higher protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u37	Mr Jan Zahradník is now the last to be entered in the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, have traditionally applied to this law, which repeatedly occurs on our House's agenda, and I have always made amendments in an effort to improve the situation of cities and municipalities, and, of course, to help combat drought. I've always done that. But I might have mentioned a few figures here first, so that we know what is actually the object of our thinking. When we look at ČHMÚ statistics, it states that the total amount of precipitation in the Czech Republic last year was 634 millimeters per square metre. By simple multiplication, we find that this is actually 50 billion cubic meters of water. That is the volume of water that we are dealing with here in our country, because we know well that influx from sources outside our Republic is negligible. A colleague of Mr. Válek quoted here chronicler Kosmas. I once quoted an epigram by Karel Havlíček Borovský, who says, "Don't brag, patriots, it's not a good thing there's no water flowing from anywhere else to the Czech Republic. That's how it really is. If we look at the graphs, the drain is roughly 10 billion cc's, the influx is about 500 million. So we're dealing with 50 billion cubic meters of water with which we have to sort of secure all our management here. It should be added that out of these 50 billion roughly 40 billion cubic meters of water, the evapotranspiration, i.e. the fumes, or the movement of water in vegetation, in plants, leaves. So the 10 billion we're dealing with here... Well, if we tell ourselves how we're able to accumulate water, so artificial accumulation of water, artificial tanks created in our history, are able to capture about 5 billion cubic meters of water, or a tenth of that available volume. From this significant reservoir, i.e. the dams large tanks, including the Vltava cascade and other dams, will hold roughly, I would say, 40 percent. More, actually, I have to add, like, three quarters, not 40, I was wrong. So about 70 percent of the water will hold large tanks, about 25 percent will hold medium ponds up to 50 hectares, and then the rest will hold small ponds, or large ponds, on the other side. So we're dealing with 5 billion cubic meters of water that we're going to intercept. That's the available water, which if it's too dry, we can reach for it, and we can sort of take the water out of it. We're talking about water retention in the landscape as a big tool in the fight against drought. I agree with that. It's a tool that we can use in a relatively short time. Just building a dam tank is a question of a rather complex authorisation procedure. But if we were to recalculate it numerically again, the volume of water that was withheld if we spread out to the entire area of the Czech Republic, it would be 62 millimeters per square metre, or we would walk in about 62 millimeters of water. The question is how much water retention in the landscape is really an effective tool. I'm not saying we should resign, no way. I'm sure every farmer, every water farmer who has that option, should take the small measures in the country. My colleague Bendl here was talking about muddying ponds. Between 10 and 20 percent of the pond volume is muddy, which means their volume, as it was built, is not available. It used to be a sort of mentioned number that it takes a million crowns to ditch one hectare of pond. That was until we, by our own laws, made it very difficult to deal with the exported mud. My colleague Bendl mentioned it very closely here. I have to admit that I also see a big problem in the fact that the mud from the ponds cannot be used now, as it has been for decades, centuries as fertilizer in the field, but unfortunately it is considered dangerous waste. Of course, the reason for this is in tighter conditions and more precise methods, as we measure harmful substances. All of a sudden, there's nothing to do with the mud, and its disposal requires significant funds. [[12.20 hours]] So we still have to turn our attention to building tanks. I am glad that the Minister of Agriculture has presented a programme to build tanks. Often, this path is criticized, linked to some concrete lobby. I don't think so. We should just think about the back wheels. When the drought really is critical, I'm sure each tank will be needed. We protected 277 profiles for possible tanks in 1953, in 1988 it was only 210, in 2005 it was 186 and we are currently working around 60 to 80 places, 65 profiles where it would be possible to build a tank and which are thus protected in that way. The minister spoke of about 30 possible places where the tank could be built. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a thing that, of course, I don't think is popular. I'm aware he won't get much praise, but I want to express myself here in favour of the intention to build tanks. So the next thing I want to mention is what we're using the water we're picking up here. In the world, in the world's global average, 75 percent of water is used for agricultural purposes, 20 percent water for industry and services, 5% serve as drinking water. In Europe, this is already 33 percent of agriculture, 54 percent of industry and services, and 13 percent drinking water. For us, this is so that 4 per cent for agriculture, 58 per cent for industry and services and 38 per cent drinking water. What does that mean? Well, it means that we actually use a significant amount of drinking water for industrial or agricultural purposes. I would like to conclude by saying this - I have found somewhere such a special statistical figure, rather not somewhat unhappy, how individual catastrophic phenomena are involved... how they have... how they contribute to death, how many deaths, how many dead people the disaster will bring. Earthquake 16 percent, here the authors, floods 8 percent, tropical storms 5 percent - but drought, ladies and gentlemen, the drought is 64 percent dead. So these are really warning numbers. And I consider our efforts to defend ourselves against drought to be right. Although, of course, we are not talking about the victims yet, but only about reducing our comfort, which could bring about the coming drought. I don't want to be sneaky about it raining again in the south, now there are heavy rains, coming here, I understand that the agricultural drought seems to be solved for this period. But, of course, we still have a big deficit in the bottom waters, and the annual sum of the collision missing will certainly not be completed with these collisions. Now, then, to our House of Press. I have tabled my amendment, which concerns Section 12, to committees. The committees discussed - thank you for having accepted it, Mr Munzar here spoke about it, and I think Mr Tureček spoke about it for the agricultural committee. So I will not be here to load this proposal, because it is already contained in the proposal of both the agricultural and economic committee. I would like to comment on the issue of water ownership that has fallen here. I've repeatedly tried to disprove a delusion that has been mentioned here, that we've somehow privatized the water here and that all the water has come into our private hands. It's not like that. Of more than 90 percent, water resources and infrastructure belong to the hands of municipalities or legal entities established by municipalities. The fact that private companies hire private companies to manage these infrastructure goods, Veolia, in the south of Bohemia it is ČEVAK and others, that is another thing. It has long since proved that municipalities, or public administration, are not a good businessman. That the management of the infrastructure, it's not just the pumping of water, its modification, its distribution and the draining of waste water and their cleaning. It's also a major concern about the quality of the water infrastructure, the quality of the water pipes, the plumbing pipes. And that's the thing about every community, every city, how it deals with that company that manages the infrastructure, what part of the profits that company is going to put into this infrastructure. And it turns out that the quality of the water infrastructure has been significantly improved in recent times, so I am referring to the water lines, and that the losses that were significant in previous times, on the contrary, are falling. One more comment I would like to take, which here... about two or three times there was talk of protected areas of natural water accumulation, shortcut PDO, such a talking shortcut. I would just like to sort of sigh at the fate of the protected area of the natural accumulation of Šumava waters, when here a few years ago in the last electoral composition of our House, I pointed out that the laws that we adopted, the laws on nature protection and landscape, which actually made Sumava, as the activists wanted, the wilderness, will have a negative effect on the water economy on the Šumava, the water regime. It was not considered and unfortunately the protected area of the natural accumulation of Šumava waters is now very affected by the fact that more than 20 percent of the trees in Šumava have actually dried up due to bark sludge. So it is my final sigh of the fact that - and someone here mentioned that even the calamity continues, that we can fear that continued calamity, even in the forests of the economy, will have negative effects on the water economy. That's right. It is true, therefore, that we should really - and here again I welcome the spent funds for both the fight against bark and the coming drought. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. As I have already said, I consider the amendment to be tabled through both committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u39	There. Mr Jan Zahradník was the last member of the general debate. So I'll see if anyone else is interested in the general debate. He doesn't. So I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Minister Toman, Minister Brabec? The rapporteur, Turek, and the rapporteur, Munzar? Well, I guess there's no interest there either. So I am now initiating a detailed debate. And I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. And Mrs Dana Balcarová is the first to report. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to sign up for my two amendments. The first is recorded in the system under number 4964 and concerns a better definition of protection zones. And the second amendment is recorded under 4965 in the system and concerns the obligation of water flow managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u41	Now I'll read four apologies. The President of the House Radek Vondráček apologizes for the afternoon meeting for working reasons, Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologises for today's meeting from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Julius Špičák apologizes between 9 and 19 o'clock for family reasons, and Mrs Tatán Malá apologizes between 16 and 19 o'clock until the end of the day due to illness. Next, Mr Jakub Janda will speak in a detailed debate and Mrs Jana Krutáková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for the two amendments introduced in the system under the numbers 4561 and 4562. I have justified both amendments in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u43	Mrs Jana Krutáková will now appear and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u44	I would like to sign up for the amendments that are being held in the system as Nos 5142, 5144, 5369 and 5370. The reasons for this are also set out there. I have also justified them in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u45	I will now ask for Mr Petr Bendl's speech and Mr Jaroslav Holík will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have two amendments that I would like to sign up for. The first is the House document under number 4557 and concerns greater prevention actions against drought, and the second is the House document under number 5784, which concerns the obligation to implement the Rainbow measures, with the fact that there may be situations that will actually be unsolvable at the moment when we give such an obligation to new builders, so apart from making housing more expensive here, we may also make it difficult for them, because it may not be technically possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u47	The President of the KDU-ČSL, Marian Jurečka, is now reporting with priority rights in a detailed debate. So, please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. I, here in the general debate, gave the reasons for the amendments that we are putting forward. I would therefore now like to refer to them in this detailed debate, namely the increase and emphasis of the importance of water, water resources, in the amendment under number 5102, the solution to the question of melioration under number 5820, then also the melioration in the field of STU issues, document number 5821, landscape elements, ponds, retention tanks, it is House document 5822, the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture in the area of expression for the farm fund's preparation under number 5823, then the ban on the removal of quality agricultural land for the construction of logistics centres, shopping centres and similarly under number 5824, then allow the cultivation of fast-growing trees on quality soils of protection 1 and 2, that is House document 5825, and then the final part, namely the proceeds from levies and fines, to partially go into the budget of the State Land Office, and that is the number of House document 5826. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u49	Mr Jaroslav Holík will now appear and Mr Jan Schiller will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. I hereby subscribe to my amendment number 5738.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u51	Mr Jan Schiller will now appear and Mr Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for two amendments. One is mine under number 5181. The second amendment is submitted by me and my colleague Marie Pěnčíková and is under number 5182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u53	Mr Radek Holomčík will now appear and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to three of my amendments, which are conducted in the system as House document 5537, 5815 and 5816. I have said the reasoning in both the general debate and the content of the documents mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u55	I will now ask for Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech and prepare Mrs Balaštíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, I did not speak in the general debate on the amendment, so allow me to comment briefly on it. My amendment responds to § 5 para. 3, from which the effort to capture and exploit rain, i.e. grey, water, is evident in new buildings, but also during reconstruction of existing buildings. From my point of view, yes, a godly idea - I do not mean that ironically, because any reasonable person, if he has the option, already has a system at the family house today, some sort of rainwater vessel and somehow uses it, even without law and often without subsidies from the Rainbow program. However, this effort, virtually. I think there is one major risk to this paragraph. I can imagine it at new buildings, family houses, or logistics centers, but I can hardly imagine it at renovations of apartment buildings or even new buildings in city centers. Technically, everything is possible, but it is also from my point of view a question of costs, not only investment on technologies, tanks, cleaners, filters, but also operating. It is, of course, great to have houses energy-sufficient, passive, with maximum use of grey water. The problem, however, is who pays for such a house and who can afford to buy it. We're talking about having a very high value for real estate. The price of housing is moving away in big cities and middle class. Therefore, we should weigh heavily on the scales any technical legislative requirement that will increase the cost of construction, reconstruction and housing as such, because we can have the highest requirements for construction, but at the same time we must be aware that such buildings will not be built, because almost no one will be able to do so. I therefore come up with an amendment supplementing Section 5 and the construction requirements, say, on the authorisation to specify requirements by implementing legislation which should take into account the specific possibilities of the territory and the builders, and at the same time that the scope of the measures on the taking and use of grey water should be determined taking into account not only their benefits but also their costs, in order to ensure that such measures have not only ecological but also economic logic. This design can be found in the system under number 5804. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u57	I will now request a speech from Mrs Margita Balaštíková and will prepare Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u58	Hello, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to sign up for my amendment in the system as House document 4972.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u59	Mr Stanislav Grospič will now appear and prepare Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply in this way to my amendment, which is conducted in the system under number 5829. As I announced in the general debate, it concerns the regulation in Section 8 of the Water Act. I justified it by aiming to increase availability to drinking water sources in cases where the dwelling cannot be connected to the public water supply, as this connection would be very complicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u61	Mrs Marie Pěnčíková will be the last to speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u62	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. In brief, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which you have in the system as House document 5818, including justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-001-001.u63	I will look around to see if anybody is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Minister Toman, Minister Brabec, rapporteur for Tureček and rapporteur for Munzar. Are you interested in the final words? [[Minister Toman: No.]] No. You got scared, but you don't have to. So here I have no proposals to vote on, and I am ending second reading of this proposal. Now we have another point in our programme. This is about
