ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u1	492. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations And before we begin to discuss the response to written interpelations with which Members are not satisfied, it is my duty to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Dominik Feri's announcement of 20. 11. on the fact that it has not received the provisions of Article 112 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 2, answer to his written interpelation on measures in the field of COVID-19 in the school area addressed to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plag. Dominik Feri submitted this interpelation on 19. 10. 2020 and received a reply 24. 11. That means four days later. On the agenda of the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 17 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, there is an interview for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to fare reductions for disabled pensioners. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 707. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I'm reminding you, I read his apology by 2:30. The obstacle therefore persists, we cannot discuss this interpellation. Another interpelation is also for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, it is also for Mrs Olga Richterová to interpel on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 709. This interpelation is also interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister, it cannot be discussed at the moment. Another intervention is the interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, the interviewing member is Mikuláš Ferjenčík on the two thousand billion money of our citizens from lithium. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 770. The hearing was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Another intervention is the interpelation to the Prime Minister from Mrs Věra Kovářová on the lack of capacity of primary and kindergarten schools. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 897. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. An interview is followed by the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, who responded to Mr Jan Lipavský's interpellation on the new security law in Hong Kong. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1001. The discussion of this response has been suspended until the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Jan Hamáček, who is present, and we can therefore continue the debate. I ask Mr Lipavský whether he is interested in bringing his intervention to the beginning. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice Prime Minister, I have submitted a written interpelation which went at the same time in a similar version to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, with the fact that it is actually a question that goes across these three departments, including yours. Because one resort - the State Department is responsible for how we have relations with the environment and evaluates information. And on July 1, the new security law in Hong Kong was adopted, which fundamentally transformed the political situation and the state of law in Hong Kong. Then we have the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the various agreements. As a result, it is also the Minister of Justice, who actually decides to issue abroad. But then the Ministry of the Interior department, which includes the police, is the actual executor in a situation where the transfer of those persons takes place, also plays an important role. But while in a situation where someone is convicted and we're talking about the exchange of prisoners, the situation is pretty well covered, I just see that there's some kind of blind spot or, to some extent, the weakness of the whole system, and that's actually a request for preliminary detention. Because Hong Kong and I are in a state today, or actually with the People's Republic of China, which has already de facto taken full control of Hong Kong, in fact, so if such a request comes, our police go and immediately identify these people and in some way can hold them back. [[9.10 hours]] Which, in a situation where people are politically persecuted, for political reasons, and quite often this political persecution takes place on the basis of premeditated accusations, see the example of Mr Joshuy Wong, who is accused of some kind of pimping, so these are the punishments and crimes that, of course, exist in both countries in some way in these legal systems, and that man is never prosecuted for political matters. There's always, or more or less, there's always a section, because even for that totalitarian regime, it's easier when they prosecute him and condemn him for something that's world-renowned. So I would like to ask how you think this issue should be addressed, and what can be done to ensure that when people who are inconvenient to the Chinese regime come here, they are not worried that the Chinese regime can actually bully them in some way in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u3	I thank you and give the word to the Home Secretary Jan Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have answered your written interview relatively extensively, because you have also had quite a lot of questions, I think it has about six pages in the final, and I understand that you are merely asking for clarification or addition to the detention passage. Because I hope you were happy with the other answers. With regard to the issue of detention of persons who are being declared a national search, I want to make it clear that this agreement does not regulate. This means that the agreement with Hong Kong does not oblige the Czech Republic to carry out detentions, nor do the Czech authorities have any superior powers under this agreement. The Czech authorities are acting under national law, in particular under Act No.104/2013 Coll., on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Well, it generally ensures a balance between the need to respond in an operational way to a situation where we have a person present on our territory who is internationally sought and, on the other hand, of course, its fundamental human rights and freedoms. So in today's world, people travel, unless it is a coronavirus, very quickly and especially in Schengen, of course, those people move without internal border controls. So if it's a wanted person, she could be somewhere else in a few hours, of course. So I consider the current procedure adequate, because the police have the opportunity to proceed operationally enough so that they can verify the fundamental facts. But, of course, the police procedure is being controlled by the state's attorney. That is, in my opinion, the answer to your question is that, given that there is control on the part of the state attorney, there should not be any threat that this thing will be abused in some way for the persecution of someone who has not committed a crime, but is only somehow persecuted or pushed by a state. So there's a check on the state's attorney's side. He is, of course, conducting a preliminary investigation and then giving the court a motion to take a person into custody or extradition. But we're too far away. So from my point of view, the system has enough guarantees not to abuse an agreement in political or fictional cases. Moreover, I think that the Czech Republic, as a democratic country with free press, is a country where these cases possibly receive very considerable attention, and the media are doing their job and pointing out that perhaps there is someone on our territory who might be involved, and believe that no one will allow himself to be remotely suspected of going against the traditions and laws of democracy and the democratic rule of law, just in some way to "apply" the wishes of a foreign state. So from my point of view, the situation is adjusted accordingly. On the other hand, I cannot imagine how we should adjust it in any other way in order to maintain the possibility of a rapid and adequate response to those common cases, which is a vast majority, and so that we do not weaken the police's functionality. So far, no one's come up with any other solution. And I'm saying again that I think it's unimaginable that we're gonna be dragging somebody around just because he just expressed his political opinion somewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u5	Thank you. Mr Lipavský has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u6	Thank you for your word. I think we understand each other because what I was referring to was Article 12 of the Agreement, which talks about the provisional detention, that in urgent cases the requested person may be taken into provisional custody at the discretion of the requested Contracting Party and in accordance with its right at the request of the requesting Contracting Party. So I understand that - and you actually said it - that in our case, it is at the discretion of the prosecutor who can do it through approval. So I actually perceive and agree with what you said, except for the isolated cases, and they're really units, that was not a major problem. So I thank you for your answer. I also plan on focusing on the subject, but of course it can be done on a basis other than parliamentary interpelation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u7	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the debate. I don't see anyone. I therefore ask the honourable Member whether he is proposing a resolution. It's not like that. I thank you all and end the discussion of this interpelation. The next interview is. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Leo Luzar's interpellation on the provision of background materials relating to OKD. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1011. On Thursday, 12 November, a debate was held, which was closed, and since it was not possible to vote on Mr Leo Luzar's proposal to disagree with the reply of the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance because of the lack of a treaty, we should now vote on this interview. Mr. Luzar's proposal was, as far as I know, disagreeable. They don't agree with the interpelling. We're alike in this situation. I would also like to postpone this interpelation at the end of the procedure and, if it were to be filled with the concession, we would vote on it at the end of the block of written interpelations. Another interpellation. First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpellation on the information of self-government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1014. The discussion of this reply has been suspended until the presence of the first Vice-President of the Government, who is currently present. I will therefore continue the debate, and I give the floor to the honourable Member to give her intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have intersected you on the 4th of August on how municipalities can be informed of the number of infected people. In my interview, I noted that the municipalities were at that initial stage, but also subsequently at the time of the peak pandemic in the first line, they ensured, as you will remember, protection aids for residents and all sorts of aids. And, of course, they needed information, for example, on the number of infected people and so on, in addition to aids. Unfortunately, at that time, health workers were fundamentally refusing to provide the mayors with this information, and if they had ever received any self-government, they were late and mostly drawn from the media. That is why I asked you whether the way in which the municipalities are informed is right, good and short and well what you think about it. Of course, I understand that some of the times when some of the infected with coronavirus were bullied caused certain risks and concerns, of course. [[9.20 hours]] You replied to me that you considered the situation appropriate, as the municipalities and regions were informed. I have to say that we have a slightly different situation today, but as the matter developed, it was the following. The mayors, the Association of Local Authorities and the Union of Towns and Municipalities demanded that the municipalities actually receive information in summer about the number of infected, or the number of those who are quarantined anonymously, that is to say only a number, so that they know how the situation develops in their village. We then met with Professor Dušek from the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, explaining the situation to him, because the information was only promised to the ORP, i.e. to the municipalities with extended scope, and the municipalities of the first and second degree should have somehow called or it was in the volunteering of those ORPs, if they had the capacity to send them information at all. We have explained to the professor, of course, to the Minister at the time, that we need that information. I think communication was excellent, and then it became public and the number of infected is published not only in the village. The mayor can click on what the situation looks like around him. I consider this to be very good, because if it is found that the mayor has quite different numbers, far higher than the surrounding area, he can, of course, handle this in some way, he can prepare himself and communicate better with the health station. I have to say that the time when I was interpelling and when the information really went, I don't want to say that they were hiding, but it was clearly said that it was not possible to submit the information, at least this anonymous, so that time changed. An information system that, I would say, is excellent and that this is such a first step, as municipalities, cities and regions could very easily be informed not only about the number of infected, but also about how prevention takes place, where doctors are, what availability is, simply and well look one step further after the coronation passes. My request is that if there were another wave like this, or another problem, please inform the municipalities and, of course, the regions as soon as possible, so that they can take good care of their community and their surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u9	Thank you. I give the floor to the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it was originally a wider interpelation. You asked me in general about how to inform the authorities during the emergency period, and the second part concerned the issue of the number of infected people. The first question, because I assume that if you don't agree with the interpelling or putting it on the agenda, it concerns the whole of the interpelation, so I would like to say that, from my point of view, the general information was sufficient. We have been operating within the Fire Rescue Corps system within the operational and information centre of the Directorate-General, which has been passed on to us by the Regional Operations and Information Centres and with the help of the system you know, of course, it was passed on to the ORP and other municipalities in the administrative territory of the relevant region. [[to]] So from my point of view, the basic communication worked very well there using the tried-out system. By the way, when we conducted a questionnaire investigation after the completion of the operation of the Central Crisis Staff in the spring, communication was judged to be very good. Now we're talking about communication between the Central Crisis Staff and the Authority. We had representatives of the Regional Association in the Central Crisis Staff in the spring. There I think it was ensured very well a direct link to the county, there were videoconferencing with the captains. I think the officers present will confirm that there was no problem at all. In the autumn, when we rebuilt the system, or revived it after the activation of the Central Crisis Staff, we also complied with the request of both the Union of Towns and Communities and the Association of Local Authorities and their representatives at the Central Crisis Staff. It's Mr. Mayor Picek and Mr. Michalík. So in addition to the fact that there's a link through the regional representatives of the Association, there's a direct link to both these associations that represent cities and municipalities. So, in general, I think the communication was and is fine. The second question. I fear that, however I understand him, he is put not badly, but he should have been put to someone else, because we dealt with this issue within the Central Crisis Staff during the emergency period, when the Central Crisis Staff worked in the spring, where, of course, we discussed whether it was appropriate or not, at that time, the view prevailed that the publication of the number of infected precisely in the municipalities carries certain risks. You described it. After all, there were specific cases where people were ostracized or attacked because they were suspected of having a virus. The Central Crisis Staff's position at the time was not to disclose these things, however, after the emergency situation ended and the Central Crisis Staff ended, the issue went logically into gesture - or otherwise. The only person left competent to comment on this was the Ministry of Health. Of course, there were some negotiations and the system was set as you described it. So from my point of view and from my position as Home Secretary in a period when the country was not in emergency condition and the Central Crisis Staff did not work, my only pouvoir or my only way to influence this would be in a possible government debate, because the publication of health statistics is not in the competence of the Ministry of the Interior and a certain role of the Minister of the Interior there may be provided he is at the head of the Central Crisis Staff. That wasn't when you sent me the information. I am glad that you have agreed with the Minister of Health and that it works for the benefit, that certain doubts have been scattered, and thank God they have not repeated the incidents of spring when people have been harassed in some way. But all I'm saying is that on August 5th, I had the minimum opportunity to influence this matter, and I'm glad that you made the agreement after that, or that you and the Minister of Health were in charge of this meeting after that. That means, for me, if you agree that I answered the part that was and is in my jurisdiction, that means, that's the communication in general, and if it's resolved in relation to the Ministry of Health, then we could agree that the interpelation is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u11	Thank you. The Member wishes to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u12	Thank you for that, Minister, you are right that we could consider it done, even with regard to when the interpelation was administered and that, during the time I received the answer, very much has really changed, and I would say, in a good way. Just for colleagues and for you, I will remind you that the hysteria of not giving information to municipalities has now proved wrong. I think the information is available and everyone's calmed down. I am very pleased that this agreement has taken place, and I think it is possible to thank Professor Dušek and his team, and I also think that the pressure of self-government has helped. Of course, it helped when we communicated in personal contact and explained the reasons why municipalities and regions needed such information. I think it was for the best. [[9.30 hours]] I've been intersecting you because local authorities fall under your jurisdiction, so that's why I was aiming, you weren't the only one I was targeting this intersect. And, of course, in conclusion, I would really like to thank you for the representative of the authorities meeting at the Central Crisis Staff. We get the information immediately, or the authorities, and it has helped to calm the situation a lot, and thank you for that. So, Minister, that's settled and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u13	Thank you. No resolution is therefore proposed, we will not vote, I will end the discussion of this written interpelation. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on information of self-government, and the interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as House press 1015. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Therefore, we cannot continue the debate. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš also responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on compensation to the regions. Interpelation together with the response is presented as printing 1017. It has also been interrupted to the present, it is not possible to continue the debate without the Prime Minister. Another interpellation is this. First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček responded to Mr Pavel Žáček's interpelation on the investigation of management of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes on Suspected Crimes of Violations in the Administration of Foreign Property, the negotiation of an advantage in the award of a public contract, public tender and public auction, and the damage to the financial interests of the European Union stopped by the National Headquarters against organised crime by criminal police and investigations. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1064. I am initiating a debate in this interview and I ask the Member for an opening speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am of course glad that you answered my questions because I believe that the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes is an institution that may still have its importance today, although, and that is what this whole interpelation is about, it does not look like today. I'm sorry, I have such a paternalistic approach to this institution, I was her co-founder, founder, first director, including the security files. I know how complicated it was, very difficult to get this building in such a place as Prague-Žižkov, a building that from the outside looked monumentally like some other institutions in Poland and elsewhere. No one on the outside knew that it actually blew through there slowly, we had to invest huge amounts in that institution. I think we also adapted it technologically, stretched hundreds of kilometers of cables, and so on, and so on. If you look at the building today, I'm sorry... I apologize to civilians somewhere in the Caucasus, but it looks a little worse than after the fight in Nahorni Karabakh. It's like there's some battery of rockets that went through that building, and no one cares. I believe that this is a responsibility - no, it certainly is the responsibility of the current management. If we, in the founding period, had done a hundred of what these gentlemen are doing there today with social democracies, green ones, put a member of the TOP 09 in the lead - today the TOP 09 is not very popular - we would have disappeared from that institution the next day. It's a chapter in the state budget. And just the things that are happening there today, in the founding period, which was much more challenging than when you're dealing with standard traffic, standard activity, we just couldn't afford it. If this building looks like after a bombing today, it's being treated in the sense of the law or the diction of the law with the care of a proper economy, I really don't know where we are. That is why I would like to thank all my colleagues, starting with the deputy for the economy, all the union directors and senior officials who took care of the economy and all the things in the founding period and who took it away, because when the new Garniture was installed politically, they either had to leave or left alone. So I thank them for their great work, where there was no shadow of suspicion, let alone some investigation into our most devious police force, as it was today, which has been investigating for two years - and I will go back to that further, by what means - the conduct of the current management. We were in a similar situation as the Institute of National Memory in Bratislava after the death of Ján Langoš. He had his own building, lost some support after his death, strength, and moved from one floor to another, outside the center. Today, the vicious Holanďan is here in Prague. The position of this honorable institution, or in the past, is due to the fact that it does not have its own building. Of course, if you look at what it looks like today, if you read, for example, an interpellation, or an answer to Mrs Schillerová's Minister of Finance's interpelation of colleague Michálek from the pirát, you're running out of something. Backwards, but we're running out. If there are no funds included in the budget today - although I wouldn't give these gentlemen a chance to repair the building. The funds are given, with the time coming in 2030, ten years from the division of the archive and the Institute, so that the number of employees will decrease and so on, so ten years before that the answer actually implies, or says fairly clearly that there will be no further repairs to the building. So it's appropriate to ask why the repair of the building's shell, as it was called, was entrusted to these people when they didn't have a deputy for the economy, they had no experience, they didn't have anyone there. They were even provided with funding from European funds, for which, as was seen from the name of the interpelation, they were also investigated. So I see the intention, it is of course my feeling, I see the intention from the beginning, which should have led to the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes losing its building. At the same time, information about the interests of the developer, which concerns the immediate surroundings of Viktorka Žižkov, where my former institution is located. I think it's clearly explained. Only what I don't think could be proven - if it were, then I can't afford that this case was postponed by the police - hasn't proved that it was said there at the beginning to those gentlemen in the management of the USTR, go ahead if it didn't work out, and I think somebody had to know that these inexperienced people... that it's actually a trap for them, so we're going to protect you, save you, and nothing will happen to you. Today, the Minister of Finance has already announced that he is conducting negotiations and entrusts it to the government's dislocation committee to seek some other space. That's the general introduction. I'm saying, I can't believe it was some coincidence. It's like someone's counting on these gentlemen not to make it. If I put some part of myself into this, man is just a willow, you know that very well, who played some top position, people confide in you. I happen to have been approached by the person who was invited before the tender was opened, by the representatives of some company at the meeting at the ÚSTR at the time he had the skeleton, it wasn't the skeleton like it was today, it was the whole building. And he told me I was invited, there was this weird lady who didn't know anything about the subject, but clearly - there were representatives of those companies, I don't know how many, three, five, maybe more. But what made it absolutely clear what was there without scruples suggested that it had already been decided who would be able to do it. So we there - can I say it, Minister? [[With laughter:]] The minister said it was normal. . Oh, well, I misunderstood that. [[Minister off microphone: No, I said it was for criminal charges.]] Well, I'm sorry. [[Say that to the microphone...]] The minister corrected himself and said it was for criminal charges.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u15	I'll ask you all to speak on the microphone and keep the dialogue off the record. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u16	I'm sorry I dragged the Minister into this a little bit. I heard wrong, but it seemed so absurd. So this is one plane. The second plane is that the management itself accepted a very careful, decent, decent lady as a new economist, as the head of the economic section, after which, however, in connection with the upcoming selection procedure, they wanted things that she was not willing to do, arguing that this is not possible under the law. The gentlemen didn't know what a budget manager was, they thought the director could sign the budget manager, and other techniques like that. And from her, in fact, the initiative to the president of the Board of the Institute went as the supreme body of the Institute, which was clear that he could not keep this serious information to himself, and passed it on to the Police of the Czech Republic through the supreme prosecutor to investigate it. These are well-known facts, the chairman of the Constitutional Council is Colonel. The General Staff of Eduard Stehlík, still in office, and Mrs. State's Attorney General replied to him to see that this case was properly examined and fully investigated and that he thanked him for his civic position. Today we can say that, in my opinion, it did not happen that, although it was a promise, it was a promise that was not fulfilled. And now I'd like to tell you some more information that I think they're going to tell you today, and I'm saying in advance, I haven't got it from any authority of the Police of the Czech Republic. I learned that the police had obtained records from such weird meetings of the management of the ÚSTR, in which there were even remarks about who it would be necessary to share with in the event of the realization of the whole financial - the whole event. I've even been informed that the police have gotten a recording of a member of the board, as they've already agreed with the selected firm, and they're figuring out how to get the money - how to send the money back and forth, etc. This was part of the investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic. And I'm a naive, starting MP, I believe the law enforcement authorities, it's clear, they're gonna investigate the fall, but I can tell the record it didn't happen. The minister knows it's not my first interview on the subject. I expressed my opinion, and I say, it was an opinion based on those indications that there was some political influence from the Ministry of the Interior, some political pressure, probably suggesting to the police authorities, or their superiors, not to be fully investigated. The minister assured me, but maybe if he repeated it, I'd like to know that he wasn't informed in writing, even under cover, about the course of the investigation. That he was not informed by his advisor, ex-minister František Bublan, who was, by chance, elected by us and the Senate as a member of the Institute's board last year, is the highest authority responsible not only for his activities but also for the economic part. It seemed most absurd to me. Publicly - and here we discussed it, by the way, I informed you about it about it about twice in the House - we knew that the management was being investigated, the administration of the institute, for quite serious matters, I am again justifying it and I will ask you that question where I disagree with the Minister's reply. Let's remember what kind of cases our most devious unit makes, that is, NCOZ. He doesn't make small, petty thefts. For me, the fact that Mr Bublan was actually pushed into the board meant that he didn't go to an institution whose leadership could theoretically be labeled as a perpetrator, these people could be the ones - they could be told the charges and they could be investigated, and that they would have to disappear from their duties that day, of course, but that he's going there - he's going to send a signal to them, we're still behind you, and we're gonna get you out of it. For me, it's actually filled, it's confirmed by the fact that the investigation is over. I think we can discuss some other oddities in this investigation, such as the contradiction between what the judge or prosecutor has allowed, and then what was realized by the police authorities. Or the feeling that the resolution that was postponed was rewritten after those police officers who investigated it. It's my feeling that someone else might have done it, but maybe the Minister will tell us. In fact, I would like to request, or I would like to discuss, my question two, why and on what legal basis NCOZ has actually examined this serious case. The answer, in my opinion, was a little misleading, which I didn't exactly ask, was that the police department of the National Headquarters against organised crime, the services of criminal police and investigations dealt with the matter on the basis of a specific person. This is widely known, I think it is no secret, I have said it here that the incentive is - again, notice, completely absurdly, the chairman of the Supreme Body of the Institute. Stehlík. But I wanted to ask, NCOZ has some rules, he doesn't take every case, he doesn't take every burglar off the street, so I wanted to ask how it was determined that it fit -- was the potential damage, was it on the 150 million, or how much was the NCOZ spreading? I think that's what this investigation is all about. So, I would like to know, or what other criteria, I suppose that was the case that was argued by the Attorney General or through his subordinate body. The fifth question I would like to ask and clarify, I think we will need to do this in a number of other cases that I have raised: During the investigation in the sense of applicable standards, were wiretaps or telecommunications traffic records used? If so, in how many cases, for what purpose, by whom they were authorised and for how long? And the Minister's reply was, of course, prepared by his colleagues: Criminal proceedings are not public by law, and therefore it is not possible to comment on their course in the format you requested. As Minister, I am not an institution active in criminal proceedings, therefore I do not have such information within a specific criminal proceedings and I cannot have such information with reference to the previous. Again, I think that's a little misleading answer. For one thing, we know today, it was presented publicly that this investigation was terminated, it was postponed. So the status of the case isn't that she's alive, and in that situation, yes, I think you could sign, agree with what the minister here has answered. But if it is terminated, then I think that the statistics, that is, the number - of course, I mentioned here at the beginning, which I believe is the head office of the institute, they are publicly active persons against whom it was led, or I have three names here, I suppose it was about these three gentlemen, or possibly one or two other persons. But I didn't care about the names, what I'm sure I'd consider as protected, even after the end. I was wondering if they were used, what extent and who just allowed it. It's not something that's covered. Or I was wondering, according to what standard the minister actually hid it under, that he couldn't answer. In my opinion, these are legitimate questions that are not covered by any degree of secrecy or anything like that. [[9.50 hours]] Then, of course, I would also be interested to know the question of nine when I asked, perhaps politically rather than factually, as it was in other cases, that therefore the loss of more than 60 million crowns from the state budget - by the way, the system is so set up that, of course, the supervisory authority should not be the police, but the Ministry of Finance, whether it is based on the budget, whether it is properly implemented. I don't think there's gonna be a blackout like this, even though today it's hiding behind the fact that some technical conditions have been discovered during the preparations that actually overcharge the entire contract. On the other hand, if a preliminary investigation has not been carried out, if it has not been done by management, it has not been part of the whole project, the real state of the building and its foundations have not been established, so I think that is a mistake that clearly falls on the management and cannot be excluded from it. And that, by the way, is the loss, or the possible increase in funds for the whole repair, and that led to the devastation of the building as it looks today. If they have been using ten or how many years, the old projects that the Ministry of Informatics has taken, or someone before them, it is, of course, completely absurd. And I repeat again what I said in the beginning. The loss is greater both in the sense that the Institute has a large cost of moving, a number of assets, a whole library and so on it is paid for some relatively large amounts and postponed somewhere in some warehouses. And the same thing is not taken into account - and I will ask that question this time, not the Minister of the Interior, but the Minister of Finance, because today there is absolutely logically some depth control from the Ministry of Finance, if they can answer me if they know how much money has been invested in this building, and that the cost of cabling, all the infrastructure, that the price of the building has simply grown, and in my opinion, taxpayers' money is simply thrown out of the window. The last thing I'm interested in is the eleventh question. You mentioned that Master František Bublan did not become your advisor until January 1. The information I was based on was, I believe, even at the beginning of August 2018, when information appeared, or sometime shortly after the election to the council, when it appeared that it became your minister. [[Advisor]] So I'm wondering if he was previously unpaid, or what the prolude means between this around August 2018 and January 2019. And one last thing, such a sigh. When the USTR moved into this building, of course, the memorials who remembered the past of this institution, when there was ÚVTEI, even the Prognostic Institute, and so on, even the Minister of Informatics said that the building was enchanted, that it had such a special genius loci, that it never turned out well with the office that is based there. Now it's like it's confirmed to me. But I don't think it's some kind of mysterious outside act. I think that this is really something that falls entirely on the shoulders of existing management, which, I think, should bear its responsibility that the Board of the Institute should take action in this sense. And, of course, it's a senate institution, so is the Senate. But we should be interested in how the funds are handled. In this case, I am simply interested in why our sophisticated and high-quality elite NCOZ unit is unable to bring this case, which was, at the beginning, as I understood it, to a large extent clear, to a successful end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u17	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and the First Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u18	Mr President, colleagues, I must say that I do not know if the building is enchanted and the spell has moved here because I do not know what to do with it. I'll try to bite through Mr. Žáček's speech, well, we'll see. I admit I don't really understand. There were specific questions that I answered in response to the interpellation. The Member wants to add a five, that is to say, wiretaps. Yes, I've asked you to fill in the specifics, as you're asking now. So the wiretap and the telecommunication traffic log have been deployed for a period of 10 years. 8. 2018 to 10. 8. 2019 for six participating stations of three factual users, from 10. 8. 2018 to 10. 12. 2018 for one participating station of one actual user and from 5. 12. 2018 to 22. 7. 2019 at one actual user's local station. And if you're asking who authorized it, then a wiretap and telecommunication traffic log has been issued in accordance with the provisions of Section 88 para. In accordance with Article 88 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Court of Justice of the District Court of Prague 6, on the basis of a proposal from the State Prosecutor who exercised supervision, shall have jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of Section 88 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure decided after a period of four months on a repeated proposal from the State Attorney Judge of the Regional Court in Prague. That means that's the answer to question five. The rest, I confess, I don't really understand. I understand from Mr Žáček's speech, when the Member will correct me, something in the sense that the building's cloak had begun to be repaired at the USTR, the contract was supposedly rigged, so I responded not by saying that it was normal, but that it was for a criminal complaint, so that it was clear what I was saying to the Member, who apparently fell there. There's been some kind of investigation. I suppose there was some kind of damage assessment going on, which, I suspect, was in tens of millions of crowns, which, from my point of view, is a waste of considerable scale, and the police started saving it. And the police were saving it, saving it clearly very thoroughly, because there were also wiretaps, saving it under the supervision of the relevant prosecutor, but at the end of the story it was concluded that it was not possible to somehow establish the specific criminal responsibility of a particular person, which is a matter that is normally taking place, and the decision is fully in the hands of the relevant supervisory prosecutor. And I ask what else Mr. Žáček needs to know about this. I'm picking up some hints about Mr. Ex-Mistress Bublan, I'm picking up some hints about someone interested in a building. But I'll admit I don't know where the institution is yet. So if you're suggesting that there are some tentacles here from the Home Office, I assume, because I don't know what I'm doing with Bublan and they're interested in the USTR building, I'm telling you openly that I don't know where the building is until now, and I don't really care. And I'm certainly not part of some conspiracy to acquire a building somewhere, as you say, at Viktorka Žižkov, and therefore I don't understand why you're moving it into some kind of personal or political plane when there's just been an investigation of the police and the police have closed it in some way and the state's attorney has closed it in some way. The fact that NCOC was saving it, I assume, is due to the level of potential damage. But if it turns out that despite the wiretappings that were set up, even with all the other acts the police did - and the police didn't decide - it's a matter of the state's attorney's office and it doesn't belong under the Ministry of the Interior - it didn't turn out otherwise, so it's one of the standard conclusions of the investigation. The police just couldn't gather enough evidence to put someone on trial, that's what it is. And I understand that you may have somehow been shaped by the fact that you worked at the institute, but I didn't choose František Bublan because he was elected to some council of the USSR. I chose him as former minister and former chief of our intelligence. This has nothing to do with the Constitution. That's why I don't understand any reference to a ditch or a break. The moment František Bublan ended up in the Senate, we agreed to join the Ministry of the Interior as my advisor, and that had nothing to do with the USTR. I really do not take up the activities of the STR or do not intend to do anything in principle, because it is not in my competence, and I take it as an institution that is established, it simply has its own work to do, but that is the end of it from my side. I don't understand the political shift and the hints that someone was organizing something and that someone was covering for someone and someone promised someone that if they fixed the house and then they'd shut him down for it, they'd get him out of it. That's just nonsense. I would recommend to Mr Žáček, if he has any doubts about the police's activities, to turn to the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps and to submit his assumptions, which he has formulated here on a microphone, to GIBS. And, of course, GIBS will investigate whether or not the police have acted in order. [[10.00 hours]] And if the Member has any information about the criminal activity of someone other than the police, I call on him to file a criminal report, and it will be dealt with. But from my point of view, it's just a case that's been investigated, it's been investigated thoroughly, it's been closed, and the D.A. didn't think it's possible to prosecute anyone in particular. That's all. And everything else, from my point of view, is some fiction, and for me, incomprehensible structures, which have a standard solution, that means not to say them in Parliament on a microphone, but either to submit to GIBS or to the police as a criminal report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u19	Thank you. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate. Mr. MP Žáček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to see what you're presenting here and what you're saying. The logic is clear, everyone has their responsibility, the police, the prosecutor, the head of the constitution, you as a minister, I as a Member of Parliament. And the key thing, I've highlighted it here, too, is the truth, there's some mistrust of these mechanisms. We have experience in the past with this influence, we know that a number of such seemingly clear cases have been taken in a different direction. But there's still the problem, and that's the money, so there might be some leadership of a state budget chapter here today, an institution that's actually funded 100% by the state, and they can definitely care for the proper economy so that at first the house looks like it's smashed up like it's being dealt with, and then they lose it, because the Treasury thinks there's no need to spend any more money on it. So the question that one was there, it was such a maybe sigh, which is why I said that this is the point that is rather a political sigh - when someone here embezzles the funds, and I say to that building the predecessor of the Institute and the Archive of the Security Forces, i.e. The Ministry of Informatics, something invested, it could have been worth a lot more than the loss is imminent from that unsuccessful tender of $60 or $70 million, so we just don't care. Are those things that are beyond our imagination? How do we explain how we treat or control the management of state funds? I just don't think it's as simple as you say it, you just can't explain it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u21	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank Mr Žáček. I'm asking the Minister if he wants to complete his response to the interpellation. He doesn't want to. My colleague Žáček did not propose any resolution, if I understood correctly, so we can conclude this interpelation. The next interview we have on the agenda today is the interview of Vít Kaňkovský to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. But he's not here. My colleague Kaňkovský will certainly take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u22	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I have addressed an interpelation to Minister Havlíček in the matter of finding a location for the deep storage of nuclear waste, which is a very explosive topic especially in my motherland Vysočina. Since Minister Havlíček is not present, I wanted to address some additional questions to him, because his answer did not fully satisfy me. So for myself, I suggest we interrupt his presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u23	Thank you. There are 67 of us, so we can decide on a motion to interrupt. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček is excused within 13 hours, will be at oral interpelation, but is off, well. So we will decide in the vote on the motion to interrupt to the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister. I've started voting number 93 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 93, 68 for 46, against no one. Interpelation negotiations were suspended until the Vice-President of the Government was present. And we have one chance ahead of us that I would like to take advantage of when we're in the vote. If you are not angry and no one will object to the President's procedure, we would vote on the proposals that have been put forward here. The first one that we interrupted today was the interview of Mr Leo Luzar to Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, where there was a motion to disagree with the inter-pellation. So if there's no objection... It's not... So I'm going to vote against the Prime Minister and Secretary of FinanceAlena Schillerová to a Leo Luzar interview. We're voting 94 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 94, from 68 to 24, against 12. The motion was not accepted. Interpelation has been terminated. If my colleague Luzar wants something else, he's gonna have to write a new interview. Now we have another interview waiting for discussion, and this is the interpellation of Mr Pavel Žáček to Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček on the proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic. My colleague Žáček is ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, this time I would like to ask, and I will mention here for my colleagues the context, some of the supplements to the response to the question of the amendment to the Fire Rescue Service Act. I am based on the fact that on 24 September this year we discussed several issues on the Security Committee. There was your first deputy, and Lieutenant General Drahoslav Ryba, and I don't think there were completely exhaustive answers, which is why I took the liberty of asking for answers from you. This will be particularly timely given that tomorrow we will be voting at third reading. The first thing I would like you to do to fill in is to ask me one question concerning the calculation of a specific amount on the example of an accident or burning cars that will be required by insurance companies. I asked how much an hour of intervention costs in this context and why and if you are not concerned that any increase in the insurance company's performance could lead to an increase in the price for insurers. I quote part of your answer: Fire protection units are proposed to compensate or are compensated for the cost of the intervention of CZK 5,600 per hour of intervention. This amount of reimbursement is based on statistics on the intervention activities of fire protection units, which take into account the real costs of operation of fire protection techniques and associated costs. - I would like to ask in this context and ask for a supplement to the real cost statistics. This includes depreciation of techniques, sorbents used, time and salary of firefighters, etc.? [[10.10 hours]] On the second question, which briefly commented that in HS quotation marks he would always be right as regards the information in the insurance form in the proposed simplification. What if it doesn't? How will a possible review of the decision be ensured? Here the answer, or the key part of it, was: the design of irrefutable legal presumption in the proposed § 44 paragraph 9 of the Act in question is one of the basic principles of the new regulation, which aims, inter alia, to simplify and accelerate the procedural aspect of the matter when generating as little as possible the costs of all parties concerned to the side associated with it. [[Nesroz.]] - In this sense, of course, I do not want to question, but we know, especially in such dramatic situations as intervention, how the role of official notice or possible error rate plays, simplification of work, and therefore what has been presented here for a long time in the past, that the state is always right and that these citizens disprove (?). I am going to ask myself quite seriously whether this will really lead to speeding up the process and saving time, if it is not so that it will save time for the state, but what about the citizen? It's a question I think is really a way to rationalize the state administration, and if that's the best way to go. On the third question, which also concerned a relatively discussed and ambiguous answer to the question of publication of a record of the intervention of the fire rescue corps. We know that we have a rather strict adjustment today. There was not an entirely clear answer to what it was in the public interest, what it was in important interest, not to mention that there were two versions of who decided it, as I asked the next question. I'm not quite sure what it would look like in practice. How will the firefighter on the spot, commander of intervention, decide according to vague legal terms, which are generalized in this answer, how will the case-law of the general courts be dealt with on the spot? I think it is necessary to take a clear position on this, so that those relevant persons, as the press spokespersons, the intervention commander, or the directors know in advance. Evaluation of camera interference while aware that there may be more of those intervening units. This means that we must have consent from everyone, and so on and so on. Because your answer is that there is a general standard with reference to GDPR, and then it is said that it is still being prepared. So I would like to know how it is and whether these questions will be dealt with properly there. And to be clear, who decides what will eventually be broadcast in the evening, for example, on television. I think it's kind of a principle thing, and it's not just about the shots, of course, but also about the photographs. Here I refer to the point six, where it is said within the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic, the appropriate general methodological instruction is then prepared. [[Nesroz.]] So this is where it was said that it already existed, and here's the information that it's just getting ready. The second point is a reference to the fact that internal procedural acts within the Fire Rescue Corps as a public body are not, in principle, published. I would, of course, like to draw attention to the point that, according to the Act on Rules of Procedure under Section 11, we are asking for these interpelations, it is not a civil request under the 1999 Bill when it is probably possible to do this in terms of the law, but I think that if it actually wants more detailed information from the Member, I think that it would be most correct and that it would be in terms of the provisions of Section 11 so that the information can be given to him so that there is no suspicion that this is a circumvention or violation of the Rules of Procedure Act. Question eight. It was about the evaluation of the tragic fire in Bohumín. DG Control Commission. The answer was again, I do not want to refer to the previous questioning, I quote the following part: in view of the fact that the inspection has not yet been definitively completed, I am not entitled, even in view of the obligation of confidentiality of the controlling authority, to communicate details or to predict the procedure of the parties. - I did not want any details, however, the less to predict the procedure of the parties, and of course I agree with you implicitly, to influence such negotiations. I asked when the result would be known. I didn't ask how it was going to happen, I didn't want to influence the process, I just wanted to ask when you were guessing, or competent superiors are guessing when it would be. I think it was a big case, and I think it's not just us, it's the public who deserve information. And the last point that was, thank you again for your answer, concerns your double position, which, of course, I do not question in any way, is absolutely standard, that is, from the position of the Minister of the Interior and the Members, but what I tried to criticize there, has become widespread to us in the Chamber of Deputies, that, in fact, the shortcomings, to say, which ministries led by you, or by other ministers, are actually being corrected by your legislative initiative as a citizen. I don't think it really works... I am not saying that there may be some critical situation where it is simply necessary to do this, but I do not think that this is the case, and that by doing so, you are actually admitting that you are correcting the errors of the resort, and actually what you have signed before as Minister, so now as an MP, you are actually correcting it, and that there is therefore no coordination or functionality in this sense of presenting these standards. That's what I think, if you could reduce the number, and not to mention the circumvention then or the outlaws of the government's legislative rules in the development of legislation. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u25	Thank you to Mr Pavel Žáček and Mr First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček is ready to complete his answers in his oral speech. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u26	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, this is also an interesting thing. Most of this interpelation is de facto related to the fact that I am interpolated for filing a bill as a Member. So I think that's my right, and I can explain, then I'll elaborate. But I'm a little concerned here that - and I don't want to deprive anyone of any rights given to them. However, we are in a situation where there is a law in the legislative process, by the way, tomorrow is second reading, and instead of having this debate on its content within the first, second, third reading, it is the subject of interpelation to the Minister of the Interior. It is probably possible, but I am simply wondering why the Member chose this tactic and did not choose a standard tactic, especially in the case of a law where, I confess, I do not understand the attention that the Member is paying to it. Again, I don't want to take away his rights, but that's one of the few laws where there's no problem at all. That is the law - I will try to enlighten him once more, however much it has been discussed here - which corrects one huge complication when firefighters, when they intervene in traffic accidents, and therefore they are paid compensation or compensation for their work, so up to now an incredible amount of paper has been associated with it. Each insurance company has a different form, the firefighter or the firefighters, when they arrived at the scene, so instead of being able to do what they were there to do, it means to remove the consequences, so, of course, if they weren't saving people's lives, one of them had to run around with the camera to document it all, then when everything was resolved, the road was cleaned up, they came to the station, so instead of being able to do the maintenance of the equipment, or to exercise or rest, because their work is physically demanding, so the intervention commander sat down to the computer, downloaded the photos from the camera and started filling out the form. He then sent to the relevant insurance company and the relevant insurance company had a number of employees, probably traffic accident experts or fire protection, who went through the photos and went through the reports from that place and wrote back to the relevant intervention commander: And why were you there with two cars, why wasn't there just one? And how come you spilled so much sorbet in there? And so on. The commander had to answer again, and there was an incredible administration that... [[10.20 hours]] When I got into office, I went around those stations and asked the fire department what I could do to help them, and the unison said, "Get rid of the paperwork." So I didn't go down the standard road to bang the House as a bill proposal, but I went to the insurer's office, I went to the insurance companies. And I'm saying, look, maybe it would be a good idea to make a deal about this. And to my surprise, the insurance company said yes, so do we. Because, of course, the administration that firefighters do is on the other side of the insurance company, those insurance companies pay people to cut the cost as little as possible to save money. So we had some meetings, insurance companies initially agreed to a flat-rate payment, which didn't like the Treasury, but we already talked about that. So the result of this trial is the law I passed. Why did I present him as an MP? Because it was the fastest. And I had the ambition to make that happen from January next year, because every month when we load these firemen with tons of paper, they're bothered. So I wanted to do it as quickly as possible. That's the only reason I did it like this. Plus, the moment there was a match, when I didn't see any resistance. And the only "knock" that came across is the MP Žáček, who, by the way, was the author of the fact that two clubs vetoed it because I sent it to 90. If it went through the '90s, they were already paying for it, and those firemen didn't have to fill anything out. But okay, once again, this is the right of Mr Žáček, who he exercised in the course of the negotiations of his parliamentary club, and they agreed with the TOP 09 and it went through three readings. So from my point of view, the law is totally smooth, and I admit I don't understand why I'm being intersected here when all the relevant actors agreed that it would help those firefighters. But good, to shed light on the process, so it's not about fixing the department's mistakes, I'm trying to help those firefighters as quickly as possible. Then there are questions about Bohumín. You asked me when it would be published. Well, when it's over. I confess, I dare not guess the time when the investigative body will end it. I don't want to end up like poor Richard Brabec, who said - I'm sorry, Richard - he said one date when Bečva will be examined, and now everyone's beating him on the head for it. So I just don't have any influence on the committee that's saving it. And I'm not gonna say when it's gonna be on the microphone here, because if I say it's gonna be January 15th, and it's not gonna be January 15th, I'm gonna be here for not being on January 15th, without being able to influence it. So believe me, the committee is working, saving what they can. But as you said yourself, Mr. Ambassador, that thing was very complicated, and it's standard that this is being investigated in the order of months. That's for Bohumín. And then there was a lot of very technical details. If they didn't send you anything, that's obviously a mistake, so I'll have it sent to you. But in general, I admit that I really don't know exactly what it is, whether it's the press secretary or the regional director. I would suggest the following procedure. If you're really interested, Mr. Ambassador, it's the Fire Rescue Corps, virtually. The Directorate-General is ready to welcome you to the headquarters, its Directorate-General, according to your disposition. We can call the entire board, and you'll be in position if you're interested in asking these questions, and they'll be very happy to answer that. You'll have the answers directly from the experts on the spot and we won't have to deal with it so that you interpel me, I'll ask them, they'll write it on paper, and I'll read it here. So if we could agree that these technical things about firefighting plans, combat order, GDPR, etc. you're really interested, so I offer a solution this way. This means that we will prepare for you some morning at the Directorate General, where all the questions may fall and the firefighters will answer you. If you don't, I'm just saying that for the specific questions you've just formulated on the microphone, I don't have the answer right now, and I'm gonna have to go ahead and send them to you in writing. But I'm offering you this easier solution to find half a day's time and visit the Directorate General. Maybe if you went to a station and asked the fire department what they think about the bill we're discussing right now, they might tell you the same thing they told me. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u27	I thank the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of the Interior. We are continuing the debate. Zdeněk Ondráček and then Mr. Žáček are registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given that we are discussing the interpelation that is still in the legislative process, it is, as the Minister said, a non-standard process, because those questions that are asked here could have been dealt with in the second reading. Now we are before the third reading, Minister, before the final reading. And I dare say, there's only one major problem. You're saying there's no problem in the law. You're right. The nature of the law, that is. The flats, that's the right thing to do, and it should have been. Of course, if it went through 90, the efficiency was written since 1. 1. 2021. We didn't make it, it had to go to three readings. But there was only one major problem. You and you didn't go there that often, basically you weren't there at all. So we had to deal with this, let's say, another, let's say, more complex and non-standard way, which only thanks to the benevolentness of the members of the subcommittee for the Fire Rescue Corps and then the Security Committee has made it possible that we are at the stage where we are today. That's what you have to admit. And if you have that kind of attendance in the Senate, then the efficiency won't even be in the new proposed term that we had to do in the second reading. Because as part of the second reading, we found that we were unable to do this by the end of this year, because we were unable to discuss this for the absence of the petitioner. So it was one of the amendments to shift efficiency. Then there was the second amendment, which was just about the use of records, and there was the public record, it is a standard term, my colleague Žáček, through Mr President. It is a standard term and I think it was quite well justified in the debate. I don't know if I have the advantage or the disadvantage, but I'm sitting on the other side of the speakers on the Security Committee, and either I hear it better, or the information gets to me better. But I heard the answers there. And it was the case of Bohumín, when the Fire Rescue Corps of the Moravian-Silesian Region and intervening police officers were unnecessarily attacked for lack of professionalism or inaction, and they have no legal way of defending themselves. Therefore, it was said that in these justified cases, the record of the intervention could then come to light. Well, you know, co-workers, co-workers, if anyone's watching the hit or is at any event, every minute takes an incredibly long time. It's been a long time. The minute she doesn't have 60 seconds, she's got 15, 20 minutes at that time. And the person who's waiting for help, whether it's for a colleague in the medical rescue service, when I see a colleague here, or the arrival of the police or the arrival of firemen, it's an incredibly long time. And those driving times that we're set by law, we're able to, let's say, carry out with all our strength. Ambulance, I'm sure. The police prefer to average it, because there are places she couldn't make it to in 20 minutes. Imagine a situation where some crazy shooter or active shooter should be hit, so the driving time of the task force, or the URNA, if you like, is 120 minutes. That's a beautiful two hours long. Imagine if you had someone in there close to you. Those are very long minutes. So here, in terms of the records, we were arguing about it, and we said yes, that's why the Fire Rescue Corps, virtually. His commanders were supposed to come and say it, and they said it through the Minister: we stand for the professionalism of firefighters, the procedure was done correctly and we will give you a servant. Because we're watching from the outside, but the firefighter's coming in, too. And let's face it, ask any firefighter, the intervention in any high-rise building is very problematic and very difficult, because getting water above 8, 10., 12., 15th floor is simply a fundamental problem, even in terms of not only water pressure, but also techniques that can interfere from the outside. Just like that, there's nothing. And remember one very old film, I think it was called Glass Hell, where the investigator discussed with the architect after one very difficult intervention. I think this film is very inspiring for what we're talking about here. So I am in principle in favour of firefighters being able to feel differently in these justified cases where someone - I don't want to say with evil intent, because this person needs to be scared, but the media are paying attention to him so that the E.R.S. can fight back. And when you mentioned who was supposed to file that information, it said it was a press secretary. But it was also said that he was the director of the HZS of the relevant region or of the territorial department, who would give it through his press secretary. That's the standard procedure that it is. [[10.30 hours]] Of course, I'm not exactly a fan. I think anyone who wears a colonel or a general on their shoulders should be able to say the essential sentence of what happened there and go in front of that camera and get out. The firefighter is not in this situation like a criminalist who doesn't want to disclose his identity, but since it's already set up that way and we have to have a press spokesperson at the firefighter's rescue corps and, of course, general in this way. So it has been decided, colleagues and colleagues, that what will be published will be decided by the director of the Fire Rescue Corps responsible for either the region or the territorial department, through the press secretary. These are the things I've heard on the committee, and I assume that there are colleagues here when I look around, so I see some of them who are also members of the committee, and I think they could confirm to me that they might have heard this, too. Or they sit so close, they just didn't hear it and ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Pavel Žáček in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u30	Minister, if you consider non-standard interpelation at this stage, I confirm the words of my colleague Ondráček. You gave the law to Parliament's circulation incessantly, and then you didn't come up with the committee. You didn't defend the novel. Yes, the benevolence and method of managing Mr Koten to the Security Committee enabled you to do so. If it was another committee, you'd have to come. There were some questions, and even what the previous speaker said here was not a clear answer from the general. I think we had to ask him about it, and only then did what you said. So I'd take the liberty of defending my right to ask at any stage. It's not standard. I refer to the first reading when I spoke, and I will normally perform tomorrow with my contribution at third reading, but I consider that you did not come to the committee, and I think that a substantial part was created for this reason, that then some of the techniques that were not quite clear there, which you and your colleagues should say, were so said inadequately, and that is why it is necessary to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u31	Thank you. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will complete his reply. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u32	I'm just very brief on the procedure. I have already said here in my speech that I do not take his rights, nor do I have any ambition to take them away from him, only to point out that I find it unusual. And I want to thank the Security Committee for taking the stand for it, and for letting it go the way it went, that is, without my involvement. But I just want it not to look like I was on vacation at the time. That was 29. 9. and I confess that I do not know in which period of that day this was discussed, but a permanent working group of the Central Crisis Staff, which I chair, was meeting, and if it was the afternoon, the negotiations of the highest constitutional officials with the President of the Republic were. Just so it doesn't look like I was somewhere in Spain or Italy on vacation. I simply had other work obligations, and I would like to thank my colleagues from the Security Committee for allowing this to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u33	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anyone. Before I close the debate, I will ask Mr Pavel Žáček if he proposes a rejection of the answer. It does not suggest, so it is without a resolution. We can end this interpelation. And we continue once more by intersecting Mr Pavel Žáček to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, on personal thanks to Deputy Police President Zdeněk Ondráček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u34	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, I'm really sorry. It looks like a žáčkův's shrink today, but it's probably drawn, so it's not entirely my fault. And all the more so, now I'm actually going to talk about a matter that concerns a fellow speaker. I took the liberty of asking the Minister whether the communication, the thanks, the personal thanks of the Deputy Police President, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, is standard, if it falls within the apolitical nature of the Police of the Czech Republic, to thank one particular Member, when it merely takes the vote, i.e. funds for the Police of the Czech Republic, in fact, a much larger number of Members voted - 142. So I would just take the liberty of saying that unlike your answer, I don't take it that non-politically. And, of course, I am in favour of the most correct relations and decent relations with the management of the resort, respectively. I would also sign this, but therefore I demand that these good relations continue to be maintained, that, in the case of, for example, my support or any other Member, it should be treated the same way towards him, that the Deputy Police President or Police President should thank each Member personally, or perhaps preferably everyone when the proposal and the financial reinforcement of the police passes and receive such a letter. I'd consider that a situation where you don't consider it political, correct. So in this case, if it were possible for the Deputy Police President to write thanks to all 142 Members as well as to his colleague Ondráček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u35	Thank you. The Minister is about to answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u36	So, as far as I know, the whole thing came about in the context of the Committee on Security and then, of course, in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Ondráček proposed a change in the budget, which I believe was in order, do not take me for a word, a few hundred million, and this parliamentary proposal, his parliamentary proposal was approved and the police Keřka him by the mouth of Deputy Minister Keřka for proposing it. Well, I think that's polite. And when Mr. Žáček proposes an amendment to the budget, which will add 300 million to the police, and the House will agree and Mr. Keřka will thank him, it will be fine and it will be one. Now, Mr President, the problem is that we have already missed it, because the second reading has already been done. See you next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u37	Thank you. Colleague Zdeněk Ondráček is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Too bad you can't see how I'm laughing under that mask, because I'm very happy that my colleague, Žáček, will deny. His people are watching my Facebook profile very closely. This is truly a worthy activity. It's obvious that you learned something there at the office, the one we talked about in the first interview, where I was just sitting on that TV, and I thought for a second whether or not to come here, but I couldn't get it from the fire department, so I got here. The Minister mentioned, my colleague Žáček through the President, I am the second term chairman of the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and private security services. With police, not only state but also municipal police, respectively. I am, say, a colleague of the directors of the municipal and municipal police of the statutory cities and the capital of Prague, in relatively lively contact, and there was also an amendment to the law on municipal police, which we discussed here, which you did not like at all, but where we were able to enforce after negotiations and across the political spectrum that even officers would receive six times the severance pay if they served 30 years with municipal or municipal police and reached 50 years of age, and we united it with others, with the medical rescue service, which already basically has such a benefit. You know, it seems normal to me that if I managed to make a budget change of 120 million in favour of the Police of the Czech Republic last year, and of that standard, and I mentioned it here yesterday when I was loading, giving and trying to give money through amendments each year to the ballistic protection of police officers, each year it was 30 million crowns, and if you remember, and you say that you require your own personal thanks, then the current Mr. Police President, when he came to the committee meeting, and it was, so he thanked you all on the committee, who voted in favour of the amendment, which raised the chapter of the budget, virtually. the undergroup for the Police of the Czech Republic, by 90 million. If you want a special thank you, I'll tell my colleagues from the Police of the Czech Republic to send you a special perhaps framed one, if that's what you want. [[Nesroz.]] Otherwise, keep a close eye on my Facebook profile, at least you'll learn something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u39	Thank you. My colleague Žáček is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u40	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I'm under the guise, you can't see it either, laughter. But I think it just wasn't fair, and that's why I took the liberty of pointing it out. Of course I don't follow your profile, I've been alerted to that, I confess that without torture. However, we decide here in the choir. I'm sure I don't take away the activities you do. I think it's seen on the committee, on the subcommittee. But some of the things that might seem to be against the dispolitical nature of the Police of the Czech Republic, so it is necessary to mention. And I think this thing was border, virtually. Across the border. I also thank you for being the press spokesperson for Mr. Police President and reminding us that he thanked us on the committee. I was quoting how many Members actually thanked the finale. Of course, I find it completely absurd, and I don't want to thank you. I consider it kind of an obligation as a member of the committee and vice-chairman of the Security Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u41	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? If no one, I ask Mr Pavel Žáček if he is proposing a resolution. He's not suggesting. We can close this interpellation. We have another interpelation with the same persons and cast. First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček responded to Mr Pavel Žáček's interpelation on the activities and presentation of the Office of Documentation and Investigation of Crimes of Communism Services of Criminal Police and Investigation of Police of the Czech Republic. Interpelation 1078 and Mr Pavel žáček has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u42	Thank you. It worked again, I'm sorry again. It's part of my memory agenda. So this interpelation has actually been directed, and the Minister will confirm that it is not the first interpelation, it has been directed to the Office of Documentation and Investigation. I also had the honour of working in this institution in the 1990s, and I also have a relationship with it, and it bothers me that today, more than 30 years after the fall of the Communist regime and in the context of, by the way, similar institutions that are functional in the Federal Republic of Germany, Poland, Slovakia, Slovakia, not, sorry, but in other states, I just resent that we do not have enough information to do what these institutions actually do. This may be a police force, even a national police force, but when you compare its outputs, for example. on the website I asked the Police of the Czech Republic about, so it looks like the principal is just coming here to see some exhibitions where she gets her picture taken at some artifact. Again in the second part of the answer - I am glad that the Minister responds in this way, I know that he cannot do otherwise, but I sincerely thank him for it - the costs of this department, the salaries of police officers, the salaries of civil servants are quantified. But the fact that the Bureau doesn't want to disclose information to the public with reference to the fact that it's a law enforcement authority, even though the statistics are anonymous, whether it's an idea or the investigation itself, and I can show that in the past it was different, and I'm going to prove it to you, so I'm just wondering. So I'm surprised that in today's media open time, this department doesn't have to, and it doesn't really have the will, and Mr. Police President, virtually. his deputy, who directs it, or the minister doesn't mind, and he actually signs here when I ask the Minister to point out how many outputs they had on the web. And let's look at other national units, of course they have other activities, etc. but as they try to present themselves, they know they have to sell themselves, so they will write to me the last time: you can find out the required information simply by summing up. In other words, Mr. Ambassador, if you can count, do the math yourself. We can't do it, or we don't want to do it. That seems completely absurd to me. In the past, I'll prove it, it was just completely different. It is clear to me that for this government, the memory agenda is something very complex. I believe that after the next election, it will just change and that the police president will clear up his way there so that the statistics will at least show up. There's no dispute, no criminal proceedings, no entry into anything, there's just answers to something other than what the question is. And I'll prove it. Even here is a formulation that I no longer fully understand why it cannot be done, because in 2019 almost 200,000 acts were registered nationwide. Well, even the Minister doesn't know what the Office of Documentation and Crime Investigation is doing to communism anymore. That he was doing politically motivated crimes between 1948 and 1989, not something that had an idea in 2019. I don't understand why this wording is there. Of course, it is referred to here that this is the responsibility of the administration. Sure. That is why I also ask if the relevant deputy or police president agrees with this, namely the Minister of the Interior. And once again, take a look at how many Polish IPN prosecutors are investigating, how much information they give, or the relevant prosecutors' office in the Federal Republic, such as the investigation of former Nazis. And I'm going to repeat, and here I'm going to prove it to you, and I'm going to do a little bit of a presentation. On November 17, we presented at the CEVRO Institute a book in which I had the honour to participate, a Guide to Democratic Transformation, where I am precisely because our memory institutions do not do much, and also presented the ÚDV outputs from the time of Václav Benda's directors or Dr. Brett, where, for example, on page 131, you have the function or occupation of persons prosecuted by the ÚDV at the time of the commission of the crime. [[shows]] It's up to 1. 6. 2008. Since then, since 2008, the ÚDV has not been particularly needed under the new director to put it there. And here's just a quantification that's anonymous. It's just standard analytical work. It's nothing that interferes with the prosecution. Counts of prosecutions and prosecutions. Just a person who cares won't find it on the website of the Ministry of the Interior, or the Police of the Czech Republic. There's a whole bunch of charts. Age structure of the ÚDV criminally prosecuted persons, to 1. 6. 2008. Why isn't that another data...? Reportedly prosecuted according to the time of the criminal offence, again to 1. 6. 2008. I think it's really a provocation and a cover-up, either there's nothing going on, there's just no shows, and I think there are some, or we just don't want to put it. This is a question asked by MP Žáček. We don't, we don't, we don't. The reference is to the publishing performances. The director, or who prepared the document for the Minister, argues some year 2007, the disposition of the time when the documentation department was transferred. [[unintelligible]] It just didn't sound like the question at all. And I don't think it's fair to make excuses for previous leadership that she had a different policy, and she has a different media. So again, the funds, how they are spent. I don't think you can stick your head in the sand here, and the D.D.V. has to answer that one time. And hopefully, at least after the upcoming elections, he'll answer what he's doing. In those points 9, 10 I asked, ÚDV in the past promised, for example, a list of deceased prisoners that he was still working on it. Obviously nothing has been done. And I even learned, which was kind of shocking to me when I asked - because for your information, this is one large set of unknown deaths from the communist regime, those who died in the ties, in the investigation, unfortunately, those who weren't at the stake or executed in the statistics, they just vanished into the system of administrative communist power. That estimate, to know how many Czechoslovak citizens, our fellow citizens, we are talking about, is 4,500 thousand people. It's a very high number. And I think that's the bottom line. So even though he promised to do it, I asked how much of it was being investigated and investigated. And the answer is: The police do not have the required data in your indicated range, because the current way of conducting the file service, which is different from the one that has been practiced from the formation of the department, cannot obtain these data. And a reference to the STR that it should be done by the ÚSTR. The investigation, as far as I know, is intended to be carried out by a police authority, and that is the national department of the ÚDV, which does not even have the ambition to investigate this. The legacy seems to me really... What are they for? What, they don't have administration? They're supposed to have a filing cabinet, it could be everything on the computer. It is absurd that the Czech state would not be interested in how those who were persecuted by the Communist regime ended. All the more so, we have a perfectly clear definition of it, even in the law anchored by the Office of Documentation and Investigation. I would have made such a promise here, Minister, that I would have asked for it for so long, until, in the end, the ÚDV itself published the statistics on its work. I just consider it a mistake and not the transparency of the current leadership. But also that their superiors tolerate it, and politically, so do you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u43	I thank Mr Pavel Žáček. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček is ready to answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u44	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, as I have expressed a little reservation in the previous responses on what is being intersected here, in this case I would like to promise Mr Žáček that I will look into it, because I consider some of the arguments raised here to be disturbing. The Member knows, of course, that as Minister of the Interior, I do not have personal authority over individual police officers or senior officials. The personal authority of the Minister of the Interior is limited only to the Police President, and only to his appointment. So I'm gonna have to discuss this directly with Mr. Police President, but I'm sure I'm gonna find the time to see if there's anything better to do with the department's work. At the same time, of course, if Mr Žáček has more questions or suggestions for the functioning of this department, we can agree, in turn, that part of the meeting of the Security Committee or any subcommittee, I do not know exactly where to fit it, we can address this issue and will be ready to meet the President of the Police, or the Director or the deputy responsible, and we can talk about it in peace. So in this case, I want to promise the honourable Member that I will look into it and keep him informed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u45	Thank you. My colleague Žáček is reporting for the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u46	Dear Minister, thank you, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u47	Thank you. Does anyone else report for a debate on this subject? No. The motion for a resolution was not made logically when the agreement was reached. That can put an end to this interpelation. We've got another interview in print 1096. It is the interpelation of Stanislav Blaha, when Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Mr Karel Havlíček responded to his intervention to secure railway crossings. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have interviewed the Minister of Industry and Trade in writing as well as Havlíček's transport regarding the increased number of rail accidents this year. I wanted to know in particular the specific steps that the Ministry is taking to avoid such a frequency of accidents in the future. I wanted to have a debate with him on the subject here in plenary, which, of course, is not possible at the moment of his absence, so I would like to ask for an interruption of this point until the Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u49	Thank you. We will accept your proposal by voting on the proposal for interruption, which is logical. We'll decide the number ninety-five vote. I'm gonna sing. I repeat that we will be voting on the proposal to interrupt the discussion of the reply of the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Minister of Transport and Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček on the interpellation of Stanislav Blaha on the safety of railway crossings. I've started voting number 95, and I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 95. From the present 80, for 63, against no one. The proposal was approved, so we interrupt the discussion of this interpelation into the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. The next interpellation I'm going to start is an interpelation according to the press 1098. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Janda's interpellation in support of the sport area in the time of the coronavirus crisis. Mr Jakub Janda is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u50	Hello, thank you for your word. I interviewed the Prime Minister in writing on the promotion of the sport area in the time of the coronavirus crisis. I'd like to interrupt this interpellation to the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u51	Thank you. I think those who are present can decide on this proposal without further action. We will decide in the vote number 96. I have begun voting number 96 and I ask who agrees with the proposal to suspend this response to the interpelation. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 96. Of the present 80, for 58, against no one. The proposal has been approved and we have interrupted the consultation. The last point in the written interviews is the reply of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jan Maláčová, who responded to Mrs Olga Richterová's interpellation on the rules for the payment of the contribution in the Antivirus programme. It's press 1107. Mrs Richterová is reporting for the debate. Madam Secretary Maláčová is duly excused. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u52	Thank you for the floor. The interpelation concerns the subject of Antiviruses and the very draconian sanctions for companies. The point, my fellow Members, is that, unfortunately, with regard to the Antivirus A and B, which are subsidy programmes, where rules other than Antivirus C could be applied and not force the return of 100 percent of the amounts, the Ministry holds that it goes against the meaning of the programme, against the sense of support for those affected entrepreneurs and firms, and does not want to consider the possibility that it would return purely according to the scope of the error. So one day of late payments shouldn't, according to my team of lawyers, mean the need to return everything. In the case of many companies, these are really high amounts. For this reason, I would like to discuss this with the Minister - it concerns the lives of many people - to call for the interruption of this interpelation into her presence at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-001-492.u53	Thank you for the suggestion. We will decide on it in vote number 97. I have begun voting number 97 and I ask who agrees with the proposal to interrupt the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 97. Of the 81 Members present, for 57, against no one. The motion was accepted. In doing so, we have exhausted the answers to the written interpelations of Members and will end this point of discussion. I also note that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal has a replacement card number 10. Before 11:00 p.m., because we've exhausted them, and we can continue, I'd like us to deal with the next programme of our meeting. I would like to focus your attention on the fact that we should be paying attention from 11 o'clock - or even now - because we agreed at a political grémia meeting that, after the completion of written interventions, at 10.30 o'clock at the earliest, which is long after - a firmly placed point. And this is 477, House document 5113, Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the rules for videoconferencing, and paragraph 489, which is the Information of the Minister of the Environment on the situation on the Bečva River. Then we would discuss other points according to the approved program and these are the laws in second reading. I remind you that at 12.45 we have a fixed point 326, a treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Republic of Senegal on the avoidance of double taxation. In the afternoon, after 2:30 p.m., of course, we would be dealing with point 493 and these are Oral Interpelations. I'm asking who's applying to change the program. I don't see anyone. [[11.00 hours]] So we can start discussing the point.
