ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u1	379. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the merits of Czechoslovak legionnaires We have interrupted the debate on this point on 3 June of this year in the general debate. At the rapporteur's table is the representative of the appellants, Mr Vít Rakušan. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. On 3 June 2020 the speech of the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek was suspended; Members Pavel Žáček, Jiří Mihola, were also enrolled. I ask Minister Zaorálek, whose performance has been interrupted, if he wishes to continue. No. Then it is Mr Pavel žáček's turn. Mr. Jiří Mihola will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would try to summon the spirit of the suspended meeting, when the person - Mr Vojtěch Filip, President of the KSČM and the first Vice-President of our House - actually spoke after the petitioner and the wording of the motion for a resolution. Although he warmly questioned the text of the keynote speech in the Russian press, for which we are here, he eventually repeated all the arguments and, perhaps in other words, insults directed against both our politicians and the legionnaires. It wasn't possible, but at that moment I wanted to cry out: You, Koněv - because he also ended up with Marshal Koněv - you, Koněv, why are you sending us the clutch? In the words of a classic. Another spoke by the shadow Foreign Minister, Mr Zaorálek. I also think he had a classic speech that defended Czech interests, defended Russian interests, understood Czech politics, Czech history, understood Russian politics, Russian history. Everyone could have made a choice. I couldn't think of a comment there. Maybe - vanity, vanity, everything is vanity, nothing but vanity. Fortunately, this has been interrupted at that stage, and today we can do this again, and we will have the time needed for this important topic. So let me get started. The forgery of history by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and specifically its Chairman Vojtěch Filip as if we were all accustomed to it. Thematically: Bloody Bolshevik Revolution, the Lenin-Stalin Terror, the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and its Consequences, May 1945, the Communist coup in February 1948, the political processes of the 1950s, August 1968, the standardisation era, November 1989 and eventually the post-November transformation period - all these are subjects of permanent, lying and manipulative campaigns based often on standardisation, and sometimes even Stalinist propaganda. Perhaps it is not possible to respond to every demagogically historicizing not really on the part of KSČM, we would do nothing else. However, it is important to refer at least to the results of free historical research of the last three decades, particularly as regards the key moments of the 20th century, which do not contain any mandatory ideological balance compared to the communist totalitarian era. Today, however, this applies twice as much. That's why we need to get back to you. The President of the KSČM and the first Vice-President of this House attacked the memory of Czech legionaries, the strongest military-political entity whose heroism and victims were created by the free and democratic Czechoslovak Republic. He attacked the memory of all those legionnaires who proved their relationship with their country, state-building and loyalty to the Republic several times. In the fights of the First World War, during the Civil War in Russia, during the constitution of Czechoslovakia and its preparations for the fight against Hitler Germany, in an unequal conflict with the Nazi occupations during the Second World War and subsequently in prisons and correctional facilities of communist Czechoslovakia, which, especially for Russian brothers, took revenge during the defeat of the Bolshevik power from spring 1918. Don't get it. Vojtěch Filip consciously attacks not only our legionnaires, but through them on the whole first republic. Kind of gottwaldovsky, like the Karlín boys. The Czechoslovak Republic, to which almost everyone here, at least verbally, follows. The key question that we cannot ask ourselves in this context is why the President of the KSČM exploits his constitutional position. Because it allows him to do so in semi-calice, perhaps coalition, historically in no way anchored and valueless government of Ex-Comrade Andrej Babiš? Does he need to improve his non-Stalian intra-party profile before the upcoming election of the chairman of the KSČM? Or does "only" want to influentially serve foreign power, against the interests of the Czech Republic? In Soviet-Russian terminology, it's called playing the role of a useful idiot. His words could be understood if he were Vice-President of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and not the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And we're not there yet. [[11.30 hours]] How, then, can we best respond to this cold class struggle? At present, there are relatively current alternative views of history. Ahistorically and provocatively, I am sorry that our legionnaires did not reach Moscow in the summer of 1918 and disproved the Bolshevik regime in the foundations. The 20th century could possibly do without the bloodiest dictatorship of human history. We would probably not discuss Vojtěch Filip and his provocative statements here today either. But enough speculation. It will be much more useful and without emotion to present publicly unknown links about recent Russian-Czech relations related to legionnaires, but also to the statue of Marshal Koněv, today transferred to the administration of the Museum of Memory XX. of the century. The care of Czech war graves in the territory of the Russian Federation as well as the care of Russian war graves on our territory is regulated by the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual maintenance of war graves from 1999. According to Eduard stehlík, Director of the War Veterans Department of the Ministry of Defence from 2014 to 2019, unfortunately, the Russian party has long failed to comply with the provisions of Article 2 of this Agreement, in particular the paragraph concerning assistance in the search and registration of the war tombs of Czechoslovak legionaries. The vast majority of these graves were destroyed in the early years of the Soviet government, partially preserved only graves in the Sea Cemetery in Vladivostok and a memorial at the Krasnojarsk cemetery. It was the cemetery in Vladivostok that became the first pilot project in which the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic put considerable funds. Already between 2002 and 2005, the Russian side was granted 6.3 miles to rebuild this burial site. Crowns. Nevertheless, our representatives at the meeting of the Czech-Russian Joint Intergovernmental Commission for War Graves in 2009 suspended themselves from his bad condition. During the next negotiations, the Russian partners admitted that a large proportion of the funds donated by the Czech Republic were embezzled and promised financial participation in the subsequent reconstruction, which took place in 2014 and 2016, as a starting point. The Ministry of Defence contributed another 2.2 million to this reconstruction in these years. Kroner, as well as the Russian party, should have contributed the same amount. However, the subsequent inspection of the works carried out found that concrete fences and staircases were not repaired properly again. Another reconstruction of concrete elements, which was supposedly to be completed in 2018, the Czech party reinserted another 320 thousand. Crowns. On the other hand, the Russian authorities have never demonstrated their financial participation and neither have the Ministry of Defence staff allowed quality control of the work done. Here I have a photograph of this place as it looked recently, in 2017. [[He's pointing.]] Here you can see the Russian side taking care of this grave. Photographs from 2019 taken on site by Czech tourists quite recently, however, show that this Czech burial site in Vladivostok is not properly cared for. In doing so, the Czech Republic has already provided an amount of almost 9 million for the maintenance of this particular site. Crowns. The Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic provided more than 19 million Czechoslovak legionaries in the territory of the Russian Federation from 2007 to 2017. Crowns. New monuments were built in Buzuluk, Yekaterinburg, Nizhni Tagil, Chelyabinsk, Pugačev, Half, Kungur, Verchnim Uslon u Kazana, Ussurisk, Spasku, Kaulu, Penze, Syzrani, Ulyanovsk and Kultuk. War graves in Bugulma and Miasses were restored as the last ones in mid-2017. On the other hand, Russia has never contributed any financial amount to the reconstruction of the aforementioned Czech war graves, despite the fact that the intergovernmental agreement envisages this and the Czech party repeatedly demanded this at the meetings of the Commission. For comparison only, the Czech Republic has spent more than 100 million on the care of Russian war graves in recent years, either from the Ministry of Defence's budget or from the city and municipal budget. Crowns. For President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, through the President, once more to be sure: Russia has never contributed to the reconstruction of Czech war graves, it has not demonstrated any contribution. On the contrary, the Czech Republic spent more than 100 miles on the care of Russian war graves. Crowns. So much for fascinating supposedly Czech politics and the Czech Republic and relativizing the results of World War II. In the meantime, the reconstruction of the Czechoslovak war graves in Russia practically stopped. Monuments already prepared were not installed at approved sites and planned commemorative acts became the target of anti-Czech provocations and hate attacks. As one of them, let us remember the attack in Novokujbyševsk, formerly Lipjagy, from autumn 2018, when not only was it prevented from installing a new memorial in the last resting places of the Czechoslovak legionaries, but the prepared foundation of the memorial was described by defamatory inscriptions such as: Czechs, build monuments to the Němec in Lidice. Here is an official photograph of the Czech military delegation and what the status of the post, not the monument, looked like - including the inscription. [[He's pointing.]] And what does the Prague monument of Koněv Konev have to do with this? According to former director of the War Veteran Department, Eduard Stehlík, the Russian party first joined the memorial of Marshal Koněv with the memorial resting places of our legionnaires already on 21 October 2015 during the meeting of the Czech-Russian Joint Intergovernmental Commission for War Grave at the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation in Moscow. The Czech party then reopened the problem of why the war tombs of Czechoslovak legionnaires destroyed in the years of the Soviet government are succeeding with enormous problems in some regions of the Russian Federation. And why, when the Czech Republic takes good care of thousands of war graves of Red Army soldiers who gave their lives in the liberation of Czechoslovakia, it is not possible to provide comparable care for Czech war graves, even for the money of the Czech Republic. As one of the screaming cases, the Czech members of the Commission have mentioned Samara, where for three years there has been a completely completed monument of Czechoslovak legionnaires, which, however, the city officials have rejected under various pretexts and so far refuse to install on them several selected and agreed places. The complete foundation for the monument was built by the Czech side twice, the third place was already sought in 2018. This is what this monument still looks like in Samara. Even his torso, which is in the warehouse, is damaged, as follows from this photograph. [[He's pointing.]] The Russian party then argued that it could not order the regions of Moscow to do what they should or should not do. When the representatives of the Ministry of Defence pointed out the fact that this was a violation of the agreement, and the Russian party came up with arguments as to why it is not possible to move from a place in Samara and elsewhere, she spoke with the claim that Prague 6 City Hall was supposedly going to tear down the monument of Marshal Koněv in Prague-Bubenč. The Russian party demanded that the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic undertake not to remove the memorial. The chairman of the Commission, Eduard Stehlík, had already warned that the statue of Marshal Koněv is not according to Czech law, namely Act No. 122/2004 Coll., on War Graves, a War Grave, and that therefore the questions associated with it do not fall within the gesture of the Czech-Russian Common Intergovernmental Commission for War Graves. The Czech delegation, like the Russian party, argued that the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic could not order anything to local government, especially in the area of the management of its property, in this case Koněvův Memorial. However, the representatives of the Russian Party, regardless of this warning, noted that if anything happens to the monument, it will affect the further reconstruction of the Czech war graves in the territory of the Russian Federation. A note outside - another renewal, maybe it sounds ironic when it was being renewed from the Russian side. Gradually, the work of the Czech-Russian Joint Intergovernmental Commission for War Graves was blocked. The Russian party rejected the invitation to the regular meeting of the Commission on 27 November 2018 in Prague and began to question the legal status of newly built Czech war graves in Russia resulting from Article 3 of the Agreement. A spokesperson of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that this happened because of the location of the tables on the memorial of Marshal Koněv, which took place on 21 August 2018. In 2019, after a year and a half of silence and non-communication, Deputy Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation, Military General Bulgakov, President of the Russian part of the Commission, responded by claiming that the Russian party finances not only the care of Czech graves in Russia, but also those of Russia in the Czech Republic, which, as I have already said, is in sharp conflict with reality, because both items are covered by the Czech Republic. At the end of the letter, he threatened that a board with information about the crimes of Čechoslovák on the beautiful arms and civilians during the civil war between 1917 and 1920 would be installed near the renewed Czech war graves in Russia. Despite all the efforts of the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the meeting was not renewed until today and the care of the Czechoslovak war graves on the territory of the Russian Federation has completely stopped. These memorial sites have apparently become hostages to Russian foreign policy. Due to the repeated vandal attacks in Kultuk, Polo and Chelyabinsk - I can document them with several photographs, here you can see the covered pedestal of this memorial, here even the offended head in Kultuk already finished statues - we can worry about these vandal attacks and the war graves of our legionnaires, which we managed to rebuild before 2017 with great commitment and for spending considerable funds of the Czech Republic, the Czech taxpayers. [[shows]] [[11.40 hours]] Finally, let's go back to the statue of Koněv Konev again. It follows from the above that this standardized monument became a pretext for, among other things, the Russian Federation to sabotage the care of the war graves of fallen Czechoslovak legionaries. There are two views of the past: our Czech - free, state-law, and Russian - ideological, internal- and foreign politically exploitable, to some extent but confused, led by not very successful efforts to follow the historical legacy of the Bolsheviks and, at the same time, the Belarusians during the civil war. The victory of the Czechoslovak legionnaires throughout Siberia simply does not fit into this concept. If I could recommend a solution to how and who to replace Koněvův's monument, I would be looking among the legionnaires. Logically, it is offered to commemorate the distinctive personality of the anti-Bolshevik struggle for civil war, the commander of the 3rd Czechoslovak rifle regiment of our legions, the commander of the army of Admiral Kolčak and General Wrangel, then the significant strategist of the Czechoslovak army, in 1938 the commander of the army general Sergej Nikolajevič Vojcechovský, standing after the occupation at the birth of the military resistance organization Defence of the nation and logically arrested on 12 May 1945 by members of Soviet military counter-intelligence Smíš, dragged to the gulag and deceased on 7 April 1951 to the overall exhaustion of the organism in the special camp with the sharpened Ozerlag regime at Taysit in eastern Siberia. The second person whose name should definitely return to today's square of Interbrigada and whose name, by the way, carried until 1951, is certainly General Pierre-Thiébaut-Charles-Maurice Janin, from February 1918 chief commander of the Czechoslovak foreign army and then commander of the Doha troops for Siberian anabass. For the sake of completeness, I add that the two generals whose lives the communist regime has been trying to wipe out completely from our history are the bearers of our highest state honors - The Order of the White Lion and the Grand Cross of the White Lion Order. In conclusion, I also propose extending the proposed resolution to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the following text: 5. The Chamber of Deputies, of course - calls on the Russian Federation to fulfil its obligations under the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Mutual Maintaining of War Graves of 1999, in particular in relation to the fallen members of the Czechoslovak legions; 6. Calls for an apology from the first Vice-President Vojtěch Filip for words by which he dishonored the memory of Czechoslovak legionnaires. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u3	Thank you. Mr Marek the Výborný will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, fellow Members, I must admit that I miss the one who actually initiated this whole point and this discussion, and this is Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. I would have expected that if we were going to devote ourselves to his statements that he would actually be here. But I guess the old Czech proverb is that you can't teach an old dog new tricks, and probably not even an old one with all the respect of a communist can convince us of other attitudes. However, I would like to make it clear to the KDU-ČSL MP that we distance ourselves from the words of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip, who delivered for the Russian military website Krasnaya zvezda on the topic of Czechoslovak legionnaires and fasciisation of Czech politics. Ladies and gentlemen, Vojtěch Filip did not speak there as a private person. Vojtěch Filip did not speak there as President of the KSČM, but he spoke there as Vice-President of this House. And I think it is necessary to make it clear here that it is not possible to act as a high-ranking official of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with opinions that are completely outside the positions and views of Czechoslovak foreign policy, but also of the House itself. We live in a free democratic society, which does not mean that it should have a green twist of history or that it should be given the green light of various ideologically colored interpretations of Czech and Czechoslovak modern history. Less than two years ago, we commemorated the emergence of Czechoslovakia. There is no need to doubt that Czechoslovak legionnaires have huge and indelible credit for its creation and recognition. We do not need to take lessons in modern Czechoslovak history. It's just clear above the sun. I would also not like to try to see any parallels here, that in a moment, one who is unable to perceive the merit of legionnaires and is attempting various approaches to something that is completely unfounded and needs to be clearly condemned. Three years ago, in 2017, when we commemorated the anniversary of the Battle of Zborov, the then Chamber of Deputies recalled the merit of Czechoslovak legionnaires on the origin of the Czechoslovak Republic. This also needs to be recalled. It is also necessary to stress the role not only of legions in Russia but also of other Czechoslovak soldiers abroad, whether it were those who fought in France, Italy and other places. All those who deserved the future Czechoslovakia. It is also necessary to highlight and recall the role of foreign compatriots, such as Volyňských Čech, who became members of the so-called Czech Association. Indeed, the military achievements of the Czechoslovak legionnaires aroused enormous respect and continued the famous military achievements of our nation. History is to be interpreted, interpreted freely, but - and this is important - it must be interpreted truthfully. There's no way we're making all kinds of senseless comparisons here. It really has to pay - and I do not want to continue here because I think we have heard the historian's expert view from his colleague Žáček - but it is not possible for us to tolerate expressions that bear an unambiguous ideological, bolshevik basis, virtually. which bears something that does not correspond to the reality of modern Czechoslovak history. It is also necessary to clearly reject these Bolshevik, ideological attacks on the memory of the Czechoslovak legionnaires and the participants of the first resistance. There is a need to reject attacks on democratically elected municipal policies. For this reason, the KDU-ČSL MEP is clearly reporting on the proposed points in the resolution of President Rakušan. I am convinced that we should not go over these shameless statements made by the High Representative of the Chamber of Deputies by silence or by some silent tolerance. If we tolerate these statements, we are toying with the fact that something like this will actually become the norm. And that, too, is totally unacceptable to me personally. Attacking in memory of those who deserved this state, and among them are the Czechoslovak legionnaires, too, is something that is unacceptable and that this Chamber of Deputies should clearly condemn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u5	Thank you. This was the last one entered into the general debate. Anyone else reporting from the scene to the debate? He's not reporting. I'm done with the conversation. That was therefore a general debate. There's no interest in the final word. There will still be a detailed debate on this point. I am opening up a detailed debate. The appellant, Mr Vít Rakušan, is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u6	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, once again for the constructive debate and once again for thanking you all for putting this item on today's agenda. I really think it is important that we adopt this resolution as soon as possible. I consider this essential and it is also important that the Czech Republic simply expresses its position on its own history, but also on how the Russian Federation sometimes tends to question our history and our merits. As far as the resolution is concerned, there is a compromise agreement on some points in the resolution, but Mr Žáček also proposes adding two following points in the debate on this point. Please allow me to propose a vote after the points of the resolution in question, and please allow me to read all six points of the resolution for clarity once more. Well, Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. is distanced from the interview of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip in the medium of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation Krasnaja zvezda; II. declares that the words of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip do not represent the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on Czechoslovak legionnaires; III. Calls on Vice-President Vojtěch Filip to represent the Czech Republic and the official direction of foreign policy formulated by the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs as a constitutional official in public statements; IV. declares that Czechoslovak legionnaires and their heroism and determination on all fronts of the First World War enjoy our respect because they have made a major contribution to the emergence of an independent, free and democratic Czechoslovakia. And now the two points proposed by Mr. Žáček follow. Well, V. Calls on the Russian Federation to fulfil its obligations under the intergovernmental agreement on the mutual maintenance of war graves, in particular in relation to fallen members of the Czechoslovak legions; VI. asks for an apology from the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip for the words by which he dishonored the memory of Czechoslovak legionnaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u7	Thank you. Mr Kubíček in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose a counter-proposal with a slight modification, which means that we are no different in point I, which Mr Rakušan has made. At point II, we're not different either. Now I will allow myself to modify item number III, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on Vice-President Vojtěch Filip to represent the Czech Republic and its statehood with dignity as a constitutional official in public statements. In point IV, we identify ourselves with Mr Rakušan's proposal and points V and VI we do not comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u9	Yes. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? He's not reporting. I'm done with the conversation. There's no interest in the final word. And I'm just going to ask President Rakušan if he has any suggestions on how to vote on the counterproposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u10	Thank you. Mr President, if you agree to the proposal, as I have announced, the vote after the points, and first we will vote against Mr Kubíček's proposal at point III, and then, if necessary, the proposal that I have tabled. After that, we will continue with the next items of vote. We will, of course, also vote on additional points by Mr Žáček in points V and VI.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u11	Thank you. Looks good to me. Does anyone else have a suggestion? He doesn't. In this case, we do not need, in my opinion, to approve the procedure. We will proceed as the President of Rakušan has recommended. There is a suggestion that we still approve the procedure as proposed. We're not gonna mess anything up. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 191. Registered to 158 MPs, for 140, against no one. We've approved the procedure. Checkout request. I checked you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. We will vote on the first point of the proposed resolution. Does anyone want points read? [[Voices from the diaper: Yes!]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u12	That's why I stayed right here. [[- Yes.]] I knew there'd be an interest. Thank you. Item number I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic distances itself from the interview of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip in the medium of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation Krasnaya zvezda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u13	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 192. Registered 143 Members, for 121, against 13. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Another point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Item number II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic declares that the words of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip do not represent the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on Czechoslovak legionaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u15	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 193. Registered 145 Members, for 125, against 10. The motion was accepted. We will now vote in point III under the approved procedure, first of all, against the proposal tabled by Mr Kubíček. I beg his wording.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u16	The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on Vice-President Vojtěch Filip to represent the Czech Republic and its statehood with dignity as a constitutional official in public statements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u17	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 194. Registered 146 Members, for 111, against 9. The motion was accepted. We will vote on item IV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u18	Yes, that makes the original proposal, of course, unvoteable. Item IV reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies declares that Czechoslovak legionnaires and their heroism and determination on all fronts of the First World War enjoy our respect because they have made a fundamental contribution to the creation of a separate, free and democratic Czechoslovakia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u19	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 195. Admitted 148 Members... registered 149 Members finally, for 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. Fifth point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u20	Thank you. Fifth point, Mr Žáček's proposal: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Russian Federation to fulfil its obligations under the intergovernmental agreement on the mutual maintenance of war graves, especially in relation to fallen members of the Czechoslovak legions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u21	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 196, registered with 146 Members, for 82, versus 7. [[from blackboard 148]] The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u22	Thank you. And last point, paragraph 6: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks for an apology from the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Vojtěch Filip, for the words by which he dishonored the memory of Czechoslovak legionaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u23	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 197, 147 Members signed in, for 73, against 17. [[from blackboard 148]] The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u24	This, Mr Vice-President, has dealt with all the proposed points of the resolution, and I note that we have approved the points of resolution 1, 2 and 4, in the form presented by Mr Kubíček and that paragraph 5 of the resolution submitted by Mr Žáček has yet to be approved, item 6 of the resolution has not been approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u25	Thank you. I'm done discussing this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-005-379.u26	Have a nice noon. I'll read the apology first. František Elfmark is sorry for the meeting between 11.30 and 19.00 until the end of the meeting day for family reasons. We will now discuss the next item on the agenda. This is about
