ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u1	452. Draft of the State Final Account of the Czech Republic for the year 2019 /German press 843/ The opinion of the Supreme Audit Office was distributed as House Press 843/1. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová take the floor and present the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, under the authority of the Government, to present the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019. As of 31. 12. 2019 showed a deficit of 28.5 billion for the state budget. CZK, which was a worse result than the same period of 2018 by 31.4 billion. Kč. At the end of 2018, a surplus of 2,9 billion were then reported. This time, the flow of EU funds and financial mechanisms was very small on annual comparisons. The management of the state budget net of revenue and expenditure by these funds, which are incorporated with a neutral impact in the approved budget, would end with a deficit of 29,2 billion. Kč. The balance in 2018 adjusted for EU funds and financial mechanisms would be a deficit of 3.5 billion. Total actual revenue reached 1,523,2 billion. CZK and 101.8 percent of the budget after changes. The budget after the changes was thus exceeded by 27.3 billion. Kč. Annually, total revenues increased by 119.3 billion. CZK, that's 8.5%. The most significant impact on the overrun and the annual increase in income was income of a non-tax nature. In accordance with Section 36 of the Budgetary Rules and on the basis of the authorisation granted by the Minister of Finance in Section 2 (1) (a) of the Finance Act. 2 of Act No. 336/2018 Coll., on the State Budget for 2019, a budgetary neutral transfer of 18.6 billion was carried out. CZK from chapter VPS through chapter OSFA to state financial assets to special account of pension insurance provision in connection with the surplus of pension insurance scheme reported in 2018. This led to an increase in revenue and expenditure not included in the budget. [[12.10 hours]] Revenue from the auction sale of emission allowances, the amount of which exceeded the original plan by 8.7 billion, also contributed significantly to the budget overrun. Kč. The transfer of 18 billion had a significant impact on annual growth, but not on transactions. Under the State Budget Act, these transfers were zero in 2018. The continued positive economic development accompanied by high employment, rising earnings and still solid economic growth led, along with the effects of tax legislation, to a relatively high increase in tax revenue collection, including social security premiums, by 6.1 %. However, in particular, lower than originally expected growth in household consumption was due to the non-fulfilment of these revenues by 0,7 %, i.e. 9.7 billion. CZK, with the impact in particular on VAT collection, which was lower against the plan by 2,2 %, i.e. 6,6 billion. Kč. Total actual expenditure was drawn at 1 551.7 billion. CZK and 101 percent of the budget after changes. The budget after the changes was thus exceeded by 15,8 billion. Kč. The total expenditure increased by 150.8 billion year on year. CZK, i.e. by 10,8 %. The share of total GDP expenditure amounted to 27,5 % in 2019, while in 2018 it was 26,3%. Annual growth was mostly involved in expenditure which was not linked to the financing of the EU's joint programmes and financial mechanisms. These expenditures increased year on year by 135.9 billion, i.e. by 10,7 %. The relatively high rate of growth in these expenditures was largely a reflection of the implementation of this government's priorities. Until the growth of social benefits by 45.6 billion. CZK, i.e. by 8,2 %, expenditure on pension insurance benefits increased significantly by 37,7 billion, i.e. by 8.7 %, plus expenditure on sickness insurance benefits increased by 5 billion. CZK, i.e. 14.5 %, and the care allowance under the Social Services Act increased by 3.8 billion. CZK, i.e. by 14,4%. The continuing increase in salaries in regional education and transfers under the Social Services Act was the main cause of the increase in transfers to public budgets by 26.5 billion, i.e. by 16,8 per cent. The salaries and related expenditure at the level of the organisational units of the State increased 9.8.bn year on year, i.e. by 7,3 %. The growth of current transfers to state funds was mostly due to transfers of funds to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, which increased by 7.1 billion. and the State Agricultural Intervention Fund increased by 4.2 billion. Kč. The transfer of 18,6 billion already mentioned had a significant impact on the increase in current expenditure. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. On the contrary, by 1.2 billion year on year. The expenditures on the administration of the state debt have fallen. Capital expenditure of 139,1 billion represent 102 per cent of the budget following changes and annual growth by 22.7 billion, i.e. by 19.5 %. In the submitted draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019, a settlement of the deficit of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 is proposed as follows: issued by government bonds of 50,4 billion. CZK, changes in state financial assets accounts - by an increase of 21.9 billion. Kč. So much for farming in 2019. Let me mention the management of public finances of the general government sector and government debt in 2019. The government debt increased from 1,622 billion in 2019. CZK 1 640,2 billion, i.e. 18,2 billion. CZK, respectively. by 1.1 %. In proportion to GDP, the government debt decreased year on year from 30,5 % to 29,1%, thus falling for the sixth year in a row. The balance of the general government sector in 2019 reached a surplus of 15.4 billion. CZK, i.e. 0,3 % of GDP. The total debt of the general government sector in 2019 reached 30.8% of GDP versus 32,6 percent in 2018. I hope, therefore, that I have managed to bring this brief speech closer to the government's proposal for the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2019. I would therefore like to ask you, on behalf of the Government, to take note of the material submitted and, at the same time, to agree to settle the state budget deficit for 2019 as set out in the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u3	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance for the opening statement. Before we continue, I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček from 11.30 to the end of the meeting day, so he will not be at the interpelations in the afternoon, and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec from the afternoon meeting, and also for work reasons, neither will he be at the oral interviews. Before we continue, the President of the Supreme Audit Office has not announced his participation in this hearing, although it is customary, but I still note that the position of the Supreme Audit Office has been distributed to you as House Press 843/1. The Committee on Budgets has discussed the Committee's resolutions on this material with the rapporteur's participation and adopted the resolutions you received as House Press 843/3. The Audit Committee discussed the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office and adopted a resolution which was distributed to you as House Press 843/2. So now we're going to ask for intelligence reports. First, I shall ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Madam President Miloslava Vostroa, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Then I will ask Mr. President Roman Kubíček. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u4	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, let me introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 43rd meeting of 23 September 2020 on the Government's proposal for the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2019, House Press 843. Following the opening interpretation of the Deputy Minister of Finance, after hearing the reports of the Committee's rapporteurs and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. discussed at a joint meeting with the Committee's rapporteurs the Committee's resolution on the State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019 and the resolution of the Audit Committee on the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account and stated that [[Furthermore, the State Final Account]] (a) all committees have recommended: The Chamber of Deputies shall approve or take note of the results of the management of the various chapters and headings of the State budget and of the financial relations of the State budget to the State Funds pursuant to Resolution No. Council Regulation (EC) No 370 of 18 March 2020 and its Resolution No 370 of 18 March 2020 and its Resolution No 370 of 18 March 2020. 423 of 24 June 2020; (b) the Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the government, within the framework of the State Final Account, evaluate for the future the costs and expenses associated with the payment of damages caused by illegal decisions or by maladministration and the recovery claims applied.'; (c) the Defence Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government remove the differences in remuneration between the staff of the National Security Office and members of the Security Councils and civil servants.'; [[According to Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members]] [[According to Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service]] [[12.20 hours]] (d) the Security Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolutions: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government strengthen personnel security and increase the financial evaluation of the staff of the National Cyber and Information Security Office.'; II. The budget committee of Parliament's Chamber of Deputies therefore recommends the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolutions after discussing all chapters and headings of the Government's draft State Final Account as a whole: Chamber of Deputies I. Notes 1. state final account of the Czech Republic for the year 2019, which shows state budget revenue 1 523 222 478 000 CZK, state budget expenditure of CZK 1 551 738 215 000 and total state budget deficit of CZK 28 515 737 000. - So I'm warning you, this is how I read the numbers so the stenographer here can write them right, 2. results of budgetary management of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions in the Czech Republic for the year 2019, which reported revenue 594 057 788 000 CZK, expenditure 562 387 197 000 CZK and surplus 31 670 591 000 CZK, 3. state of state financial assets at 31 December 2019 amounting to CZK 137 491 321 000 and state financial liabilities of the Czech Republic amounting to CZK 1 713 248 865 000, [[4.]] information on the main results of the management of the state funds of the Czech Republic for the year 2019 according to the data provided in the F draft of the state final account, 5. information on the status and development of the state guarantees referred to in the D-book of the draft state final account, 6. information on the status of the funds of the organisational units of the State referred to in the F-book of the State Final Account, 7. information on the privatisation process and on the state and use of funds held in special accounts for 2019 pursuant to Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund, mentioned in the workbook I draft the State Final Account; II. agrees to settle the state budget deficit of the Czech Republic for 2019 by financing items as follows: issued government bonds of CZK 50 423 297 638,11, change in state financial assets accounts - increase by CZK 21 907 560 283,03; III. Notes that it discussed the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019 and notes it; For others, she empowers the Chair of the Committee to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, which I have also done with this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u5	And now I ask that the President, the rapporteur, Mr Roman Kubíček inform us of the meeting of the Supervisory Committee. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Supervisory Committee of the 34th meeting of 16 September 2020 on the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019, House Print 843/1. Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening interpretation of the President of the Supreme Audit Office Miloslav Kala, news report by Roman Kubíček, Deputy Minister of Finance Stanislav Kouba's opinion and after the debate I. takes note of the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019, House Print 843/1; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the President of the Supreme Audit Office and the Minister of Finance. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u7	Yes, and I am now opening a general debate in which I am the first to sign up with the priority right of Mr Ivan Bartoš. He's not present, so it's failing. And another with priority rights is Mr. Jakub Michálek... [[Member Michálek speaks off the microphone.]] You'll do it later, so I'm supposed to start you up. Then sign in. The next in line is Mr Ferjenčík, and Mr Skopeček for the club is therefore preferred. Do I understand that correctly? So Mr. Mr. Skopeček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for having been able to approve the proposal on the previous point, for which Mr Votava from ČSSD has fought for a long time and tabled as an amendment by Mr Pikal from us to discuss the state final account before the state budget is discussed, which is also going well this year. I think this is the right thing to do, and it increases the importance of the negotiations on this document, which is very important and gives often a better picture of the state's economy than the state budget, because one thing is the budget and the other is the real result. I propose a resolution on this document, which I have already tried to propose to the Committee on Budgets, I hope I will be more successful this time. He's got four points. Firstly, the Chamber of Deputies continued to discuss the State Final Account (a) notes that the management of public expenditure is inconsequential mainly because of the disunity of the partial final accounts of each chapter, and calls on the government to unify the documents in the coming years. I always take points and try to explain why I'm suggesting what's going on. The individual chapters, the individual ministries, do not have a uniform methodology for accessing the state final account. After all, this is similar with the state budget chapters, and the result is that it is not possible to compare the chapters with each other, which we believe is a mistake. (b) Please note that the lack of management of public expenditure undermines confidence in rational management of public expenditure. What's going on? With the state and, above all, with the state budget, we are not moving forward by saying: we need some service and we will pay so much money for it, and we will get that service for that money. Instead, what we do is that money is simply being added to some chapters, and we don't even follow whether the money that we put in there or not is consistent with improving services or, for example, maintaining services when it comes to valorization and inflation, or, on the contrary, whether there may be some way to stop the downturn. In our view, especially in cases where we raise or reduce the money, these steps should be accompanied by some analysis of what kind of service the citizens receive for the money. For this reason, we draw attention to this lack of management view of the state budget. (c) Recalls that the ratio of capital expenditure to total State budget expenditure remains low despite partial improvements in previous years. I'll give you one example of what this leads to. We are still failing to get these capital expenditures over ten percent of the budget expenditure as a whole. We think it's a problem. We hope that this will improve a little bit in the years ahead, but it will be from the other side to debt, but it is simply the long-term pain of Czech state finances that capital spending is low in relation to the whole package of money. What does this lead to? Today the freight train from Prague to Ostrava or from Ostrava to Prague takes an average of 20 hours. It takes 20 hours to get the cargo from Prague to Ostrava. This is one example of how we are failing to complete the infrastructure. And in our opinion, this is something that the government needs to focus on. We are glad that this has been gradually improving in recent years. [[12.30 hours]] (d) Calls on the Government to rapidly address the dependence of public budgets on labour taxation. We see as a big problem that while the taxation of labour and the income of the state from labour taxation is growing very rapidly, so all other incomes are stagnating. The excise tax revenue has even fallen in 2019, and this year the government is proposing a reduction in excise duty to diesel oil, which will lead to a further income loss of about 5 billion, while taxing work, which means social contributions and income tax on individuals, is growing somewhere between 5 and 10 percent each year. So is another problem. The return on corporate tax in 2019 was lower than in 2008. In 11 years we were unable to overcome 2008, although hundreds of billions of crowns, or more like trillions of crowns, disappeared from the Czech Republic abroad. The other two problems of the state budget, which is also linked to tax policy, first of all, what the government's final account showed. Firstly, there was no choice of 10 billion in taxes assumed by the state budget, which is quite an exceptional situation. As a rule, the Ministry of Finance hits its estimates or underestimates them, and it is quite risky to overestimate them, because then there is a threat that the deficit will actually be larger than it was approved. And the last thing that needs to be taken into account when we look at the total figures, the deficit as a whole is distorted by the transfer of one-off 18.6 billion from the National Property Fund, or from the profit of ČEZ, in simple terms, to the state budget as a one-off income. And it distorts and purposefully improves the result of the economy, which was actually worse by these nearly 19 billion. So thank you for your attention and thank you for your support for this four-point resolution. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u9	Mr Skopeček will now perform on behalf of the ODS Club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, and Mrs. Olga Richterová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u10	Thank you. Very briefly a few comments on the Minister's speech, a little less pink words. The 2019 deficit was the worst after four years, although the economy grew for the sixth year. This is the result of poor treatment of public finances. It should be recalled that the poor result of the management improved 18 billion crowns, which were transferred from the privatisation account, where they are to serve as a reserve for some expenses, for example in connection with environmental damage, or so I thought that if any government ever decides on pension reform, of course I do not expect it from this government, so that it could serve as a pillow. It will not serve because the current government has improved its management and reduced the deficit. Thus, this reserve money was not used for structural reforms, whether the pension system or the health system. Madam Secretary boasts that her government, or the government of Andrej Babiš, is reducing public debt. It's not true, it's a lie. The government does no such thing. The nominal debt increased in 2019, only the relative amount of debt decreased, i.e. public debt to gross domestic product, and it was not due to some active fiscal effort by the government, but it was due to the rapid growth of gross domestic product. As we will see at that time when gross domestic product will fall, this will, of course, also have an impact on the deterioration of the public debt ratio vis-à-vis GDP. When you look at the history of this government, the decline in government debt is primarily due to the growth of gross domestic product and then to the surpluses of our ammunition. The government's fiscal efforts play a very minimal role in this, and the government is not helping to improve the state of public finances, on the contrary, making them structurally worse, because, compared to 2008, we are prepared for the current Coronavirus crisis and the economic consequences associated with it much worse than we were prepared for the crisis that began in 2008. The government's mismanagement in 2019 also shows that current spending in particular increased. The government likes to curse by wanting to invest out of the crisis, by increasing investment. In this way, any draft government deficit has been justified in recent years, but the reality is different. Capital spending is low, relatively low, as opposed to capital spending in the time of right-wing governments, and, on the contrary, current spending is growing disproportionately. Current spending is growing at a rate that does not correspond to the economic condition of our economy and which continues to aggravate the structure of public finances. What is worth mentioning from the final account is to look at how the efficiency of the public sector is reduced. The government, or the Prime Minister, who promised to run the Czech Republic as a company, proved that it grew significantly during his reign the number of civil servants, the number of civil servants. Compared to 2005, when 422.5,000 people worked for the state, 450,000 people already worked for the state in 2019, even though the government is enchanted by the word digitalization, the electronisation of the public administration, and for these purposes is coming from the state budget with an increasing amount of money. While in 2005 it was about 25 billion, in 2019 it was already 34 billion, almost 10 billion more crowns. So, on the one hand, we invest in making the public sector more efficient, investing in information systems, and, on the other hand, the state is taking on ever-new and new civil servants, on which more and more funds are being paid from the state budget. So any digitalization and electronization in this government has become just a phrase, and it's throwing away taxpayers' money because it doesn't lead to greater efficiency in the public sector, for which more and more people have to work. So no pink reality. What the Minister said here really was a reality painted pink, a reality that is not good and which corresponds to very bad governance of public finances by this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u11	I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Olga Richterová and Mr Ondřej Profant will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u12	Thank you for the floor. The debate is a lot run by numbers and maybe for someone with deterrent deadlines, but it should actually be a debate about what people get for their taxes, what this country gets from its public administration for its results. However, there is not a word in the documents we receive as Members, in fact, about achieving some measurable results, measurable values. It didn't even sound, if I listened well, in the Secretary's speech. There have been words about which indicators grow, which fall, but not about what vicious circles of poverty, the low added value of the economy, and other problems of our country are being broken. At the same time, every management is focused on achieving measurable targets. In doing so, we focus purely on assessing whether they have grown, income, expenditures have fallen in those boxes or in those boxes. And I consider that to be a fundamental problem. [[12.40 hours]] In addition, this approach can also be shown on specific findings of the Supreme Audit Office. I quote very briefly again from the annual report, which everyone can find publicly. I just want to point out what I'm saying is that it's very hard to find savings in a series of ten-, twenty-billion-dollar large items of our budget, but it's much easier and more efficient to look for the very usefulness, the targeting, the efficiency of our use. There is actually a number of financing activities within our state, but little control, as is aligned within the regions and municipalities, and little support for the very targeted coordination. And the last thing that I would poke out in general before I mention the SAO's findings as an example, so one thing the government can easily do is give a legislative basis to a few clearly missing areas. I will mention what I am doing, but what has a great deal of overlap in the labour market, namely the law on social enterprise. A law that would admit that there is a group of people who do not have a chance to be employed without support because of various complex disadvantages and who would say: we are planning such an effective use of taxpayers' money because it makes sense, not only from a human but also from an economic point of view. Or I'll give you another example. Child care, children's groups. It is quite clearly calculated when the state supports such capacity to care for young children, so that any parent who wants to go to the job, who wants to be employed less time away from the low age of children, will return to the state that year. It'll come back on the charges, it'll come back on the economic activity. But again, this target, the goal of ensuring that every parent of small children who wants to get reasonable, affordable care for their child can, so this target is not set and we don't fulfill it. And to quote the Supreme Audit Office, it's just tied to what I was saying about the missing law on social enterprise. That is, for example - I quote from the 39th annual report for 2019 - MPSV provided money from the Operational Programme Employment for Youth Employment Projects, and that was more than 1.3 billion. CZK, even though unemployment in young people in the Czech Republic has been constantly declining since 2013, it was still 339 million in 2017. CZK increased, without - and now this is important - without the program being concentrated on young people with disabilities who would really need the program. And to this I want to show that instead of targeting those specific young people with disabilities and actually watching if they were included in the labour market for a long time and it helped them, there was an area program from an area that we didn't need. There was the SAO's influence again, but this changed during the check-up. However, - and this is also extremely important - I quote: None of the projects under control have a total volume of 470 million. CZK realized by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic cannot be evaluated whether the funds were spent effectively, because the Office of Labour did not monitor the participants of the project and their further professional application on the labour market after the end of the project. - It was control action number one. 18/28. Again, it is almost half a billion crowns. Why am I quoting this? Because that's how our republic does it in general. It's not just a matter of this particular program. It is a pouring of money without tracking addressability and without monitoring efficiency, not in the long term, but at least in the medium term. And one more sentence from the annual report. The SAO clearly points out that our setting up of the social services system is unsustainable if we do not take into account the ageing population - demographic developments. And again. It's something we all know, but it's something we need to start preparing for and at least discussing it with the authorities. What types of care are economically more sustainable. And it's about once again that the state has to build on the stated goals that it wants to provide, explain to people what can be provided, and then number, write those accounts. The state's final account is an account that the state is making, how it goes. I wish the next time we're here, at least some of the targets were named, and that's what the measurable results are. I don't have a problem with us saying that everything isn't going to work out. I'm sure it'll be just like any other country that's turned into that kind of driving. It's going to be scrubbed in some way, and it's going to be a development. But I'm sure it'll be more useful than wondering which box in that state report, in that draft state final account, has gone up and down. It will be much more useful to know what value people receive for their money and how effective our state is in providing these various basic services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u13	So I will now ask Mr Ondřej Profant to speak and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with my previous speakers. The structure of the state's closing account is so bureaucratic and not saying anything. We, for example, have a chapter on the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, and we have it for public administration, not for security reasons. And in that chapter, I'm going to read a lot about cops, firefighters. It's the vast majority of the expenses. But very little more about the public administration. And this is very inflexible, and it leads exactly to the fact that we don't have measurable targets, we don't solve real problems, and besides the very largest numbers, we can't solve anything. I would like to focus on digitizing the state administration, where the situation is rather trivial. And I also took the cases that the Supreme Audit Office pierced. So, first of all, there is an increase in expenditure in the area of information and communication technologies. Last year it was 14 billion, which is an increase of 11 percent compared to 2018. But you just can't tell about the quality of the service of the state. Yes, there are very few services that have succeeded. This year, these were services that were done by volunteers rather than by the state. But really on ordinary services, such as tax returns, such as pension systems and the like, the difference in quality is small, possibly. only the systems continue to become obsolete. And they were often outdated at the moment of launch. Secondly, we are also growing the number of government information systems. We've got over 8,000 of those, please. Here it is clear that we should focus on their usability, interconnection, logic. And that if we have 8,000, there must be incredible duplications. These are things that need to be removed. Three. According to the Supreme Audit Office investigation, only 3.3 percent of public administration employees are IT specialists. This leads to the fact that most of these operations are outsourced, leading to poorly written contracts, which are reported only by a narrow circle of IT companies whose names are notoriously repeated. [[12.50 hours]] Those are the problems that the SAO has already pierced. From these cases, it is clear that we cannot digitize, coordinate and link, because digitalization is not just about the simple use of information technology. It's about creating processes so that they're digital to make life easier for every citizen, not about just buying the same toy, but instead of analogue digital. I think it's very good to see how dysfunctional the clever quarantine we hear a lot about, but the real results are that two county sanitary stations are unable to use it, that hygiene has a lot of excuses, etc. And that's not an area where anyone can stop us, except for the government itself, which can't organize its departments. That is why we need a high-quality coverage of the digitalisation issue. That kind of roofing has to fix the biggest mistakes I'm gonna make here one more time. First of all, it's know-how. Without proper know-how, we're blind, we can't put in public contracts, and we can't run projects. Outsourcing can be the way, but only if we have the know-how. Outsourcing is that someone will do something for us, but if we can't enter what we want to do, then the outsourcing can never work. Another huge problem is the methodological leadership and education of people, and I am talking about both professional professions and non-professional ones, because without people we cannot digitize and without those educated people who are informed, who have those practices experienced, we cannot maintain the security of this state. I think how it affects the quality of people we see in the case of a dysfunctional clever quarantine, and we saw security in spring cyber attacks on our hospitals, where just completely amateur mistakes that any student of an industrial school could detect were being made by professionals in such critical infrastructure. This is simply a consequence of not being educated, not conducting methodically, etc., which is a consequence of not having measurable goals, not seeing what we want to achieve. It's not complicated at all. It's something companies in the private sector have to do, it's something that stacks of books are written about, but we just don't apply it. And last but not least, we need to eliminate duplication and double-trackness, which is simply not a digital approach, because it has to circulate data and not people. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to one great opportunity that will come to us in the coming months. The European Union has prepared a recovery plan that responds to the coronavirus crisis that has hit us. For the Czech Republic it is 180 billion. Crowns. Here it is crucial that our national recovery plan, which we are preparing, not the European Union, and which is to be prepared by Minister Havlíček, is not made by the logic of concrete, concrete, concrete, but contains really meaningful investments that will help us effectively transform both the Czech government and the entire economy. Because we really don't want to compete with third-world montage machines. We need to have a modern economy where we work on higher added value, where we play prima robotics, where we can deal with where we are flexible. After all, this crisis will show it, I think, more than anything else. Where there will be assembly houses that can't adapt because they can't adapt to the principle of things, they produce that one product, so they fall, while a lot of modern companies adapt very dynamically and they hardly know how to function. Some have even been able to take advantage of the opportunity of this crisis. And we must be similar, we must support this, not stomp on simple bureaucracy. We just have to think flexibly and modernly, not do it the way it was done in the first Republic and Austria-Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u15	I will now ask Mr Vojtěch Munzar to speak and prepare himself as the penultimate - because Jakub Michálek also wanted to speak - Mr Černohorský. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues, hello, Madam Secretary. I may return to the fact that the State Final Account for 2019 gives us such a comprehensive picture as the government did last year, and not just last year. I am not afraid to say that the report on the state final account for 2019 could be called the report on how the government of YES, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, managed to rustle up economic growth. I say that word very seriously. You've been saying to the public all along that you've reduced your debt, you've been saving, you've created reserves. You repeat that all the time, but even a hundred times repeated lie doesn't become true, especially if we can prove it by numbers. We hear it all the time - we cut down on debt, we saved, we created reserves. Nothing is further from the truth than these claims. Allow me to take the position of the Supreme Audit Office on the State Final Account and to your claims I always quote part of this opinion, which, by the way, is very serious and cannot be left to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies simply by taking note of the Committee. Andrej Babiš became a politician with the idea of running the company. And what would the company have done if its current spending had increased faster than its total revenue? When you look at the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, it says this: Growth in current spending, which means spending on the operation of the state in particular, without the means to make investments, has year-on-year exceeded the growth of total revenue by 8.8 billion. Crowns. - This fact, especially at a time of economic growth and rapidly growing income, does not indicate a responsible approach in terms of the sustainability of public finances. So it's more like running the state as an audition firm, isn't it? You say, Prime Minister often in Hey, guys, finance secretary yesterday on Twitter that you reduced your debt, you even say most of all. When you look at the SAO's position, he says this last year: In a time of economic prosperity, a gradual reduction in nominal state debt should also play an important role. In 2019, however, compared to the previous year, government debt fell only in relative terms, mainly due to high GDP growth. On the contrary, its nominal value has increased. The planning and implementation of deficit budgets in times of economic growth did not contribute to a reduction in the overall volume of government debt. So, on the contrary, you contributed to increasing the volume of state debt and not reducing it? You're just hiding it for relative measuring and expressing against GDP, but its growth is not your fault, but rather your management despite it. [[13.00 hours]] Another claim you're telling the public that you've been saving and creating reserves. This is what the SAO says: The management of the state budget for 2019 has ended with the worst result in the last four years. Without transfer of funds from a privatization account of 18 billion. the deficit would be even higher. The effect of increasing state budget revenues due mainly to economic growth was reset by an increase in expenditure mainly common and was not used to balance state budget management, nor to carry out important reforms, pension, increased level of digitization and so on, which would contribute to fiscal sustainability of public finances and higher competitiveness of the Czech Republic in the future. - So, on the contrary, not saving and making reserves, you were spending the reserves, improving your budget by melting them. In fact, without the 18 billion you've dissolved from reserves, the deficit should be about 50 billion. Crowns. Another one of your claims: We're making a record investment. To this end, your capital expenditures have been declining over the long term. Except for the spike in 2015 due to the use of European funds. Only in 2018 did the trend turn and capital spending started to grow. And in 2019 you roughly reached the nominal value of the 2010 capital expenditure. But if you're so fond of a relative statement, I'm once again quoting the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office... I'm sorry, I have to look it up. I dropped a piece of paper. Here: If, in 2019, at least the same share of total expenditure as it was 10 years ago should be spent in the transport sector, the state budget would have to spend 91 billion. CZK 16 billion. More crowns. In the area of housing, municipal services and territorial development, an amount higher by 31 billion would have to be directed. Crowns. In 2019 the Czech Republic failed to make use of economic growth and the constantly increasing volume of state budget funds to further support the strategic areas of the national economy, than was the case in 2010, when the Czech economy was in a much less favourable economic situation. So, in a time of economic prosperity, it's pretty sad. I'm afraid you're worth a lot of money. You will always transfer the growth of civil servants to teachers and police officers, but since 2012, the number of civil servants has grown, let's just say, at the authorities, by 10 776 people. It's like the town of Čáslav or Prachatice. It is a third of the total number of increases in civil servants. But a higher number of officials does not lead to an increase in the efficiency of the state administration. On the contrary, more officials mean more paper, more stamps, more bureaucracy. And does anyone really think the government is more efficient? By the way, this is also mentioned in the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, which says that although the number of civil servants has increased by 35 423 people and the expenditure on their salaries by 75 billion, the efficiency of the government sector has not increased, on the contrary, it has been declining year-on-year in recent years and the difference between the efficiency of the government sector of the Czech Republic and the EU average has deepened. So much for your individual claims. I wanted to introduce you here, colleagues and colleagues, to the claims of the Supreme Audit Office, or to the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office, so that you do not just say, that only the opposition is saying, and we are right. This is the independent opinion of the independent authority. The Supreme Audit Office has long evaluated how you manage by saying that the state budget is worse prepared for emergencies than it was in the previous economic crisis. We have an emergency this year. Unfortunately, I'm afraid from the point of view of managing state finances, or covering up your inability to manage state finances, it's more like a godsend to you, and you blame everything on covid. It should be stressed that we are talking about state finance in the state final account of the Czech Republic, which has been managed by finance ministers for YES for five years in 2019. We are talking about a year when there was still economic growth after a few years of economic prosperity, and after the covid and the economic crisis there was no sight or hearing at that time. And when else should we have state finances stable than after years of economic growth? But you couldn't even do a simple job like that. I'm not happy about this, because we're all gonna pay for bad management. If someone can't manage state finances at a time of economic growth, it's a big mess. But it's a tragedy that you manage the same way in times of crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And Mr Holomčík is next, and Mr Černohorský will be prepared according to the record left by my colleague. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make my point in discussing the state's final account on the parts relating to agriculture. But before that, I would like to say one thing in general. It's already been partially heard from my previous speakers. What bothers us in the state final account, but also in the state budget is very much, I am not saying that the most, but very much, is that it is actually difficult to trace the link between expenditure items and the achievement of strategic objectives, whether they are strategic objectives that are based, for example, on the government's programming statement, or based on some other sub-strategies, or those are targets that are based on some of our international commitments. If you look at the budget, but also at the state's final account, there's just no perspective that would give you a clear report on how we finance the fulfilment of what we've called strategic goals. Since the constitutional role of the Chamber of Deputies is, among other things, to control the government, I consider this to be quite a fundamental deficiency, because it basically limits our ability to do our part. Furthermore, I would like to focus on three areas that I now consider to be the most up-to-date for some reason, which are also mentioned in the state final account. I always try to confront them with, for example, the eyes and findings of the Supreme Audit Office, because there have been checks in a number of these matters and some conclusions have been drawn. The first point I'd like to focus on is the promotion of livestock production. In recent years, it was between 2014 and 2017, when the Supreme Audit Office's control was carried out on this particular area, which stated that, although the money that goes to support livestock production has increased year after year, not even the fulfilment of some, say, indicators, nor actually the strategic management, but does not correspond to the fact that these expenditures have been shown in practice. I consider the support of livestock to be very important. In general, I think it is a perfectly rational policy for the state to try to make the most of the food, and not just the animal origins that are being used in our country to produce in our country. There's a lot of meaning to this animal production, or it's important for a whole lot of reasons. It is, of course, the often discussed self-sufficiency. The crisis in spring has shown how important it is to be able to supply food to citizens. This is important for economic reasons, in terms of employment, in terms of maintaining money in the countryside and in local economies. This is, of course, also important in terms of environmental impacts, especially because of the reduction of carbon footprint associated with transport. It makes sense from the point of view of the landscape, so much important organic matter that is missing. And it makes sense from the point of view of the fact that, for example, meat is often imported from countries that have significantly lower standards in terms of animal quality. That is why I would expect, and it is often said now that we will approach the promotion of livestock with all seriousness and with some strategism. [[13.10 hours]] The final account for 2019 shows that the trend in expenditure and support for livestock production is increasing. But the figures on production and the percentage of self-sufficiency do not match that at all. I will try to propose to some of the next negotiations of the Committee on Agriculture to include a point that, if we look at the future of support for livestock production and talk about what the strategic vision is - I will repeat it once again: spending is growing, efficiency or production is simply not rising or self-sufficiency. I think it would be a good idea to evaluate this and tell ourselves how effectively public funds are spent on this matter and whether there isn't time when we have these reports, whether the SAO or a number of other data, to rethink the form and form of support for livestock production and to look for another way to support our farmers and breeders. The second point is the solution to the problem of drought and water in the landscape. Again, the report of the Supreme Audit Office pointed out that the work, the approach to solving this issue, is not entirely systematic. So I'm based on data from 2016 to 2018, where 28 billion were spent during this period. CZK, and the Supreme Audit Office points out that the various programmes of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture contradict each other in many ways. Such a media-thankful example is that the Ministry of Environment returns rivers to the original troughs, while the Ministry of Agriculture concretes them and equals them. Even in 2019, to which this final account relates, we have not seen this year come up with a single concept, a unified strategy, as we did before the holiday with our concept. We are discussing water now, when it would be perfectly clear what strategic objectives are, what instruments we want to come up with, and, of course, even with the expenditure items on the part of the state budget. This systematic approach is simply lacking, and unfortunately, the resemblance of the state's final account doesn't actually show us that the state should, and the government has a goal to solve these things conceptually. The last point I wish to comment on concerns forests, especially national forests. I have spoken here several times about the absolutely absurd contributions from the state forest fund that have taken place in recent years and which have basically led the business to a drum. Now, reports have come out that during the first half of this year, state forests are running an operating loss of 460 miles. The crowns, and they finance it from the bank account. That's not quite a good result. In 2019, an item on the revenue side of a billion crowns from the state forests appeared in the state budget. I would just like to remind you of the state of the forest in 2018, when the budget for 2019. The profitability that the state forests had before 2017, ended in 2018. In 2016, the result of the pre-tax management of the company was less than 5 billion, in 2017 it was less than 4 billion. And in 2018, it was only 230 miles. The development of the crustacean calamity, but also the impact of the decisions of the Ministry of Agriculture of 2017 on the general pardon to the minemen, who totally broke the pricing policy and broke the prices on the market, clearly showed that in 2019 the company will have a big problem. And yet there was a 1 billion item in the state budget. contributions. I just don't understand how anyone can even think that in a situation like this, a company that manages 48 percent of the forests in the Czech Republic, one-sixth of our country's area, that is, how, in such a situation, someone can even invade the budget of the billion we take from that company. Especially after almost 26 billion were pulled out of the company under the ANO Finance Ministers. Here I would like to commend Minister Toman, who, fortunately, found another source in 2019 and secured the billion from elsewhere, which means... [[Secretary of Finance from the newsletter's desk.]] Fourteen? Fourteen? But that's what your government decided. Sorry, we're communicating with the secretary here. And now she's torn my thread perfectly. Yes. I would like to thank Minister Toman for securing funding from elsewhere and for not making the money go away. And given the rather difficult situation in which the state enterprise is located, I will then read the resolution in a detailed debate. I will read it to you now to be familiar with it: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to appoint the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture to establish a plan for financial stabilisation of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic and to present this plan to the Chamber of Deputies by 1 December 2020.' I consider this important at a time when we are dealing with drought problems; this year it was more of a torrential rain. I think our forests must be in good shape. And destroying a state enterprise that - and I repeat it - manages 48 percent of the forests in our country will certainly not help. I will be pleased if you support the resolution I propose and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u19	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Černohorskýý and President Kalousek will be prepared with priority rights. That's the deal, Mr. Kalousek will get off after you. And Prime Minister Faltýnek also reports with priority, so you'll be Prime Minister Faltýnek after you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u20	Thank you for the floor. Thus, the scope of the information provided by the Decree as required to be published in the final account was not supplemented after 2010 by additional data, the reporting of which was determined by the accounting reform in the field of public finances and which provide a better indication of the management of budgetary resources in the relevant year than only cash flows. These are so-called accrual data showing the costs and revenues for the relevant budget period, entitlements, claims and commitments existing at the end of the financial year, as well as potential claims on contingent claims and potential commitments. All this accrual information allows a general picture to be presented of the results of the management in a given year, not distorted by the economic impacts and burdens affecting other periods. In the long term, the Supreme Audit Office draws attention to the fact that the final accounts use these accruals at least. You can really find this in those comments on the draft state final account since at least 2015, if not earlier. I therefore consider it appropriate, in agreement with the Supreme Audit Office, that the relevant legislation should set the use of these data in the final accounts to a higher extent, given the high level of debriefing of those accrual data on the management of the state budget chapters. Let me give you a few examples. You can look at these in detail as part of the Supreme Audit Office's audit action, 1903 when it was done at the Ministry of Culture. So here the total cost of financial compensation to registered churches and religious societies, the so-called church restitution, of 59 billion. CZK and related long-term commitment with maturity of 30 years was reported in the financial statements of the Ministry of Culture as at 31 December 2012. Since 2013 The Ministry of Culture pays payments for the State and at the same time reduces the long-term commitment, the amount of which is shown in the financial statements. Only annual payment information shall be displayed within the budget management data. The information on the remaining long-term commitment shown by the accrual accounting under the budget management data is no longer displayed. This means that we would always have to ask each of these commitments separately from the ministries or the individual chapter administrators. Of course, these commitments are potentially made by the individual chapter administrators. [[13.20 hours]] Another example can also be the Ministry of Culture, which, according to the financial statements at 31 December 2018, had conditional liabilities of 1,6 billion. CZK, which consisted of around 91% of long-term contingent transfer liabilities. This means that the grant decision has already been issued. The conditional liabilities represent a potential entitlement to the budget of that subsequent period, which are shown in this accrual accounting, but not in the final account. And, as you can see, the accrual data will allow a general picture to be presented of the results of the management in that year, not distorted by the economic impact and burden of the other period. When comparing the data on the implementation of the state budget in the context of the monetary principle with the data on the results of the management, the accrual principles, then there are different results, and thus various interpretations of the actual state of public finances. I would, then, like to propose a resolution in a detailed debate, which I would also like to put forward, in which I do not want to take too much into account the changes that will need to be made so that we can get closer to this information. I would then like to bring these to committee level and, on the basis of this discussion, any proposals for changes should come in, which should lead to better reading value, not only those state final accounts. In the context of this detailed debate, I will therefore read the motion for a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and the Supreme Audit Office, to prepare amendments to the relevant legislation, which will lead to the use of accruals in the final accounts in the preparation of the budget and the medium-term outlook, in order to comply with the principle of the accuracy and reality of the proposed state budgets. I will then sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u21	Thank you, too. President Faltýnek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. I listened carefully to the speech of my colleague, Vice-President of the Holomčík Agricultural Committee. And, yes, he's right that over the past seven years, quite a lot of state resources have been invested in support of livestock production, and the result really isn't adequate. Unfortunately, animal production, and in particular the production of pigmeat, is not rising in the Czech Republic, but at least the fall has stopped. And I'm glad for the proposal that said here that we should start a debate on this topic on the agricultural committee, why this is happening. It's got a lot of connection. It's a long conversation. I don't want to discuss this at this point. But I welcome this proposal here to include it as a subject and to invite farmers, farmers, representatives of all the business entities that are engaged in the agricultural sector, and to launch this debate with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u23	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, only briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 parliamentary club will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it did not vote in favour of the State Budget Act for 2019. He did not vote for him primarily because he considered him very irresponsible and because he had shown negative fiscal efforts. To get closer to what it is. Negative fiscal effort is the government's budgetary policy, when the government consciously worsens the structural balance of public budgets and consciously worsens the balance of public budgets. And here I want to get closer to that often repeated sentence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, which they keep repeating, as the government has reduced its debt over the past seven years. Well, it is true that the relative debt ratio has fallen over the past seven years - the nominal debt has, of course, increased, but the relative debt-to-GDP ratio has fallen significantly, from around 41% somewhere to 29 percent. That's right. But did the government deserve it so that she could say on behalf of the Prime Minister or the Treasury Secretary, "we've reduced it"? Well, the government reduces government debt when it takes active measures to improve the state budget balance and reduce debt in some financial year. It's called positive fiscal effort. And I'm here to ask you a question about the Secretary of Finance. I would very much appreciate it if it would answer us, in which of these seven years the government has made positive fiscal efforts. I'm afraid she won't want to answer, so I'll answer for her. Neither. Neither government has made positive fiscal efforts, which means it has not taken any active measures to improve the state budget balance. It's just the economic growth that's doing it. I draw exclusively from the Ministry of Finance's materials - financial strategies, convergence programmes. That means, I'm really just saying the Treasury material here. Between 2014 and 2017, the ANO government and social democracy have made neutral fiscal efforts. This means that it did nothing positive to reduce the structural deficit, or state debt, but at least it didn't hurt. While she was consciously making negative fiscal efforts in 2018 and 2019, that is, knowingly damaging, and planning negative fiscal efforts for 2020. Of course, a covid flew into 2020 and we're somewhere else. But I'm saying, actually, I'm quoting or paraphrasing, or zooming up the Ministry of Finance material to explain to you that the government hasn't reduced the government's debt to a crown. The relative ratio of government debt to gross domestic product was reduced due to a pan-European and de facto global economic boom. The government didn't contribute to this with one single step. On the contrary, it has made this situation worse in 2018, 2019 and 2020. This can also be read from the Ministry of Finance's materials. So it's not entirely true that for all the problems of today and the other days that await us, only covid can. He's also responsible for the government's irresponsible policies. It is true, however, that the government did not reduce the government's debt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u25	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Michálek is now reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very simple request for the Minister. If she could speak and answer the questions or comments that have been made here in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u27	I ask if anyone else wants to speak in the debate at this time. I don't see anyone. [[This is Secretary Schiller.]] In the debate, Madam Secretary? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u28	Thank you for the floor. Well, I listened carefully and I went to the head of a film, a very famous film that got several Czech lions - Boring in Brno. I remembered that one. Let everyone under it imagine what they want. I'm gonna keep the agriculture out of the way now. We're here to discuss it with the Pirate MP. When I was Minister of Finance and Mr Toman, on the contrary, we said actively that we did not want any dividends from the state enterprise of the Czech forests, let them put it on the fight against coronavirus and other economies. I will not respond to Mrs Richterová either. It is rather a subject for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm sure these topics are very important. Social services - perhaps I'd just react. In 2007, when the method of financing social services started as it is today, they were put in from the state budget a little over 6 billion, today over 18 billion went to 2020. plus 5.2 billion. pay per worker, so over 23 billion. I don't think that's enough. So I'm asking where the money is, and I want to believe that it's invested meaningfully. But I'm saying that this is the competence of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and I'm sure it's a topic that we're going to talk about. Personally, I'd like to say that there was a whole bunch of different information here about the 18th billion. from the privatization fund over and over again. We've talked about this a couple of times, it's still gonna be there. That's state budget money, and that's where it belongs. And they've always been there. Always. When the previous governments, the last right-wings, read into the Act on the abolition of the Privatization Fund of the amendment that they will only transfer there if there is a social security account, that is, what is collected on social terms and what is paid on pensions is deficit. But he's been positive for three years, surplus, so they're gonna transfer. And it belonged to the state budget, it belonged to this House of Deputies to decide that. And I always remind you, it's a shame those critics didn't get in touch at a time when there were 250 or more billions on those accounts. These were even transferred outside the decision-making power of this Chamber of Deputies. Too bad they weren't yelling back then, I said the same thing in the Senate. There were a lot of politicians there at the time, some of them weren't, like me, of course. Public sector efficiency. I hear that over and over again. In 2019 we reduced operating expenses by 10 percent, we cut dead souls. You confirmed it today, and thank you for that. You have confirmed the amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act, according to which no finance minister will have to deal with it any more, no one will have to argue if he puts on dead souls, doesn't put on dead souls, if he reduces the number of officials because you have approved, and I thank you for that, the amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act, where expenditure on so-called vacant posts will be limited once and for all. We started with this in 2019, we reduced on average 10 percent of our officials in 2020 and reduced additional operating costs. I can still hear the number of officials rising, so I'd like to remind you who it was. They were teachers, they were policemen, they were firemen. On the contrary, we reduced the number of civil servants between 2019 and 2020: civil servants - 2 174, civil servants according to the Labour Code - 160, employees of contribution organisations - 146. And I didn't take that graph with me... I have it right here. I'm sorry. I got him. [[He's checking his cell phone.]] So a comparison of who the new public sector employees are between 2013 and 2020. They are employees in regional education: 37 106. Don't we need a teacher? If you want to tell them. Security forces: plus 5,233. Professional soldiers, we're in NATO, I hear it here every budget discussion, we have some commitments: 2,918. EU staff and financial mechanisms: 2,153 - temporary workers. So they're basically the people we raised. In particular, you can see that they are teachers, over 37,000. So let's just do it again, I just want to remind you. Of course, the growth of current spending is driven by growth in pensions and other social benefits, salaries in education, country's defence in line with NATO's commitments, or the Ministry of Defence. The debt is always directed towards GDP because it reflects tax capacity. Yes, the decline in debt is due to GDP growth, but that's like life. We also take mortgage according to our ability to pay back. And it's derived from the ability to repay our income. So I want to stress that since 2013 - I have it here, my colleague quickly printed it for me - the debt has fallen by more than 10 percentage points. And if you compare it to the previous years, it's probably not that simple, even though you're actually saying that it was only because of GDP. So explain to me, Mr Munzar, why in 2011 - I have a graph drawn from the Ministry of Finance numbers - it was a growth of 1.8 percent of GDP, why this growth increased nominal debt by 156 billion. and GDP by 3,2 %. Why? Well, it's probably not that easy when right-wing governments haven't been able to do it before. Probably not. And the deficit was 143 billion. So, although the current government is in the situation it was in, in 2019 we started to show a slowdown in growth and, of course, in 2020 it was fully reflected in the crisis, it is not so bad for it to do so when it essentially dropped its debt both nominally and as a percentage. And when I look at the previous years, as you say, it's so simple that it just happens and happens, I absolutely don't think so. That we blew up the growth? You know, when you say rusty, you have to say exactly what you mean by rusty. And don't tell me it was operating expenses, 'cause I don't really buy it. You just don't cross tens of billions in there. So we've added to the teachers if it's rustling. We've added to the non-edogs who worked for a terrible salary. Basically, we invested - and I didn't take the investment today because I didn't know we were gonna do the budget anymore, but that's okay. I got it on Facebook or a Twitter account. The investments, as planned, will be record-breaking next year. The entire public finances were in surplus. And when you mention ammunition, I am very glad that the management of ammunition as well as 30. 6. this year ended in surplus, of course smaller than last year, it is logical, we are in the most severe crisis comparable to the 30th century, but still in surplus - 350 billion. They've got bills. And I'm glad. This is precisely the equipment for the times of the crisis, and yet we sent them two and a half times more than we took on the compensation bonus - 13.4 billion. To the community. And we're glad because we want to pull together, invest together and help each other and not create ditches. We did not want to allow such a situation to be used for politics. So we have structurally achieved the medium-term budgetary objective, exactly according to the rules. At the time. Now, of course, we're in unprecedentedly comparable times. I just want to remind you that we are evaluating the implementation of the state final budget account approved by this Chamber of Deputies, so at this point, it is the debate back on that budget. Okay, I don't mind, I'll be happy to explain in some way. But the medium-term budgetary objective, as he spoke of the negative fiscal effort, was fully respected in 2019, which cannot be said for the governments that were before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u29	Thank you. The Minister's speech raised several factual points. First, Mrs Richterová, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u30	Thank you for the floor. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in the area that I was dealing with, I was talking about something quite different from what the Minister responded to. The Minister has not failed to stress what the government, whose member it is, has done, but you, Madam Secretary, have already forgotten to respond to your government's failure to address the achievement of strategic objectives. You're presenting us with an account here - a government account. I drew attention to the quotations of the Supreme Audit Office that a particular ministry does not meet, for example, the main strategic objective that is linked to the setting of a long-term sustainable system of available social services. And my subject, what I was talking about, was sustainability. What I did was - we have some demographic development. We clearly see everyone who is able to interpret an increase in the number of people 65+ from 20 percent of the population to 30 percent of the population, that in 10 to 15 years we have a serious problem in the whole area. It's not just a social area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u31	I'll ask my esteemed colleagues to remain calm in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u32	But, of course, it's also about health care. It's not just a matter of pensions at all. And the Minister instead of saying how she, as Minister of Finance, will contribute to achieving the strategic objectives of long-term sustainability and efficiency counting, because social services are different expensive - off-road, residential and so on - instead she just complimented herself. And I don't think it's appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u33	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík - factual point, then Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister for speaking in the debate. I appreciate the possibility of having a debate. And I will, of course, try to get us to vote it out today. Anyway, I wanted to point out that the 18,6 billion there is a dispute that it was some one-off money that was not in the budget in 2018, so there is a one-off increase in revenue. And we believe that such one-off revenues are better used in a truly purposeful way, for which they were originally intended, that is, in particular, the construction of infrastructure, the removal of old environmental burdens and, where appropriate, the resolution of pension system problems. And that's where the government's budget income just went up one time. However, the 18,6 billion certainly did not go into the highways, for example. This is the basic reservation in particular that it is difficult to compare the two budgets of 2018 and 2019 when there is an additional 18,6 billion in one that is not in the previous budget. And we think they should be treated as disposable income. Second thing. I am sorry that you did not focus on the structure of the budget, where I think that excise duties are falling, the proportion of corporation tax on the budget is very low, and even in nominal terms it is less than in 2008 and labour taxation is increasing sharply, there are serious problems in the budgetary policy of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u35	Thank you. Mr Munzar - a point of fact, last for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u36	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for speaking in the debate that we can respond to each other and not in the final words. However, I wanted to comment on two things within the time that I have said here. The first thing is to compare debt at a time of economic growth and compare it with a mortgage as GDP grows. Well, that comparison, Madam Secretary, limps on both legs. I'll offer you another comparison. It's as if in your life... your employer, Madam Secretary, has increased your salary, and yet your expenses have increased more than your salary has increased, so you would have to be indebted to going to a restaurant at your cost of living. This is certainly a better analogy than comparing it to a mortgage, and that you have the ability to pay back because GDP is growing. We have to compare it to the revenue of the state budget. That's the first thing. Second thing. You said you were gonna dissolve the privatization fund. Yes, it is true that when there was a deficit in the pension account, these one-off revenues were used to offset the deficit. But last year, we were in a completely different situation. There was no pension deficit. There was a surplus. Yet you took the money from the reserves and dissolved it in the state budget. And now we miss him! Now we're missing this year! That's the second thing. And the third thing, when I still have time, you were talking about debt, and you were talking about relative expression again. But you - your government - did not really contribute a crown to reducing the total amount of state debt. All you did was raise him. And because it was a global economic boom and prosperity, it seems like a reduction in relative proportions to you. Yet you increased your debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u37	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. [[Thank you.]] Thank you. I ask if anyone else is still interested in speaking in the debate at this time. I don't see anyone in the room. I'm done with the conversation. We will proceed to the debate in detail, in which Mr Ferjenčík is first signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will read the resolution that I have already presented in the general debate. I will ask the rapporteur if she could, in some reasonable way, insert it into the resolution as it is inserted. Excuse me, I'd leave that up to her. I think he's gonna make it, and I'm just gonna focus on the content. It's about adding these four points. I ask that we vote them separately. "The Chamber of Deputies further after consideration of the State Final Account a. Notes that the management of public expenditure is inconsequential mainly because of the disunity of the partial accounts of the various chapters, and calls on the Government to unify the documents in the coming years; b. Notes that the lack of management of public expenditure undermines confidence in the rational management of public expenditure; c. Recalls that the ratio of capital expenditure to total state budget expenditure remains low despite partial improvements in previous years; d. Calls on the Government to rapidly address the dependence of public budgets on labour taxation." Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u39	Thank you. Mr. Holomčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u40	Thank you for the floor. For the reasons that I explained in the general debate, I would like to read the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to instruct the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture to establish a plan for financial stabilization of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic and present this plan to the Chamber of Deputies to 1. 12 2020'. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u41	Thank you. During the general debate, Mr Černohorský reported. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will also make a statement here that the rapporteur should somehow include this resolution in the prepared one - for the Roman three, four, we will see this numbering: "the Ministry of Finance asks, in cooperation with the Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and the Supreme Audit Office, to prepare changes to the relevant legislation which will lead to the use of accrual data in the final accounts in the preparation of the budget and the medium term perspective in order to comply with the principle of the truthfulness and reality of the proposed state budgets." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u43	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is in the middle of a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. It's not. In that case, I have called my colleagues from the lobby, and I will ask the rapporteur to take us through the vote. There are already several proposals for accompanying resolutions in the press 843/3, and others have been heard in a detailed debate, so it may be appropriate to agree on what procedure we will proceed with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me propose a voting procedure. First of all, if there are no objections, we would vote on the budget committee resolution, and this, although the category takes note of which we would vote - I propose en bloc, but if you want to do so individually, we can also individually do 1 to 7 as I have already read them in the general debate, but I can, of course, read them specifically. Then we would vote on the second part, which is that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to settle the deficit of the state budget of the Czech Republic. Then we would vote on III - notes, first, where we would vote on the fact that we discussed the position of the Supreme Audit Office, then we would vote on IV, which would be - the Chamber of Deputies further after the state final account - and now we would line up all those proposals, because none is excluded, as they have been done. So we would start with the resolutions of the various committees, as was the accompanying resolutions from the committees, then we would continue with the individual points of Mr Ferjenčík and, b, c, d, then Mr Holomčík and then Mr Černohorský's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u45	I'm asking if anyone has an objection to the proposed procedure. I think she's pretty clear. I called my colleagues. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Who's against it? (Vote number 301.) Registered 91, for 74, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u46	Thank you. So we would start the first vote, which would be: the Chamber of Deputies takes note - there is a point 1 to 7. This is part of the draft resolution of the Committee on Budgets. I'm just asking if I should read all these points again. I don't see anybody having a problem, so we could vote these points at once. [[The President does not consider it necessary, none of the plenarys object]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u47	I'm opening the vote. I ask who is in favour of the draft budget committee resolution that the Chamber of Deputies notes. Who's against it? Voting 302, registered is 91, for 53, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u48	The second vote would be that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to settle the deficit of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 by financing appropriations as follows: issued government bonds of CZK 50 423 297 638,11 and the change in the state financial asset accounts - by an increase of CZK 21 907 560 283.03.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u49	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 303, we are 91, for 47, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u50	As a third, we would again vote part of the budget committee, namely: The Chamber of Deputies notes that it has discussed the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019 and takes note of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u51	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 304, 91 Members registered, for 75, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u52	Now, we would have gotten to those individual accompanying resolutions and we would have started with the proposals of the various committees. We would vote on the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the government evaluate for the future the costs and expenses associated with the payment of damages caused by illegal decisions or by maladministration and the recovery claims applied in the framework of the State Final Account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u53	I can hear you knocking with my card, so I'm gonna check you all out. Please sign in again. [[Objection from the diaper.]] So I'm going to ask you once again to sign off and log in, apparently I've accidentally pressed the voting button, and the vote is confusing, of course. I therefore now initiate the vote. I ask who is in favour of the recommendation resolution tabled. Who's against it? Voting number 305, registered 74, for 28, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u54	Another is the Committee on Defence, which proposes: The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government remove the differences in remuneration between employees of the National Security Office and members of the Security Corps under Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on service to members of security forces, and civil servants, pursuant to Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u55	Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the resolution tabled? Who's against it? Voting number 306, registered 75, for 23, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u56	We will now vote on a proposal from the Security Committee, which recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt a resolution in which it recommends that the Government strengthen personnel security and increase the financial evaluation of the staff of the National Cyber and Information Security Office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u57	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 307, registered 75, for 30, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u58	We will now vote on Mr Ferjenčík's proposals, so we will begin on a case-by-case basis. The first is: The Chamber of Deputies notes that the management of public expenditure is inconspicuous mainly because of the disunity of the partial final accounts of individual chapters and asks the government to unify the documents in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u59	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 308, registered 75, for 27, versus 7. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u60	The next proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies points out that the lack of management of public expenditure undermines confidence in rational management of public expenditure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u61	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 309, registered 75, for 27, versus 8. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u62	The next proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies recalls that the ratio of capital expenditure to total state budget expenditure remains low despite partial improvements in previous years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u63	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 310. 75 Members are registered, for 28, against 5. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u64	Another proposal: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to rapidly address the dependence of public budgets on labour taxation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u65	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 311. It's logged in 75, for 28, versus 5. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u66	Another is the proposal by Mr Holomčík: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to appoint the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture to establish a plan for financial stabilization of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic and present this plan to the Chamber of Deputies to 1. 12. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u67	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 312. Logged in 75, for 27, versus 2. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u68	The last proposal is from Mr Černohorský, and the proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and the Supreme Audit Office, to prepare amendments to the relevant legislation, which will lead to the use of accruals in the final accounts in the preparation of the budget and the medium-term perspective, in order to respect the principle of the accuracy and reality of the proposed state budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u69	Please keep the resolution in mind. Mr Navrkal has something to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u70	Thank you for the floor. It's just that I'm late for the 311 vote, and I was up for it. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u71	Thank you. We will therefore vote on the last resolution, as the rapporteur has put it. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 313. Logged in 75, for 28, versus 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u72	These were all the proposals that were made and voted on by the State final account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u73	I thank the rapporteur for her exemplary work. Please don't leave yet. On the basis of the agreement of all Members' clubs, I now propose to vote on the elimination of the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 58th agenda, except for paragraph 490, which are oral interventions, which will, of course, be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 314. Registered 73, for 54, versus 3. The motion was accepted. And I'm interrupting the meeting by 2:30 p.m. when we're going to proceed under approved agenda item 490, oral questioning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-004-452.u74	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. The next item is
