ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record our participation, I've just checked you all out, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with I.D. cards and possibly tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I beg you all to remain calm in the hall, and I beg you to take your seats. I would like to make a proposal on which the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies has unanimously decided today, in order to commemorate a minute of silence the memory of our precious colleague, the President of the Senate, Jaroslav Kubera. Please rise. [[All present rise and a minute of silence worship the memory of the late Senator Jaroslav Kubera.]] Thank you. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 40th meeting on 9 January of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Miroslav Kalousek and a Member of Petr Vrána. I'm asking if there's any other proposal for verifiers. I see no one, so we will vote on this translated proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 1, registered 157, for 152, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Miroslav Kalousek and Petr Vrána. I declare that by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Jiří Běhounek - health reasons, Eva Fialová - health reasons, Petr Gazdík from 14:00 to 17:00 - working reasons, Radek Holomčík from 14:00 - health reasons, Patrik Nacher from 17:00 - family reasons, Jana Pastuchová from 14:30 - family reasons, Petr Pávek from 14:30 to 16:30 - health reasons, Lubomír Volný from 14:00 to 15:00 - working reasons. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Vladimír Kremlík from 14:00 - without giving reason, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček from 14:00 to 17:00 for work reasons. Furthermore, I have received an apology from Secretary Schillerová from today's meeting on a foreign trip. Now a happier message. 21 today. Our colleague Olga Richterová celebrates her 1st birthday. Happy birthday! [[Let's hear it.]] And now we're going to set up a 40th meeting, whose proposal is on the invitation. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. Grémium suggested: 1. include a new point - Proposal for rules on the management of membership clubs for 2020, House document 4100, and include it firmly on Thursday 23. 1. as the first point after written interpelations; 2. discard paragraph 281 of the draft programme, House Press 698 - Report on the Environment in the Czech Republic 2018; 3. include as the first points in the block the laws of second reading point 10, House printing 555 - Government bill amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and it is also point 12, House Press 582 - Government Bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and other related laws; [[Postal Services Act]] 4. Submit in the block of laws, first reading, paragraph 20 of the draft programme, House press 658 - Government proposal of the Digital Services Tax Act, first reading, for item 16 of the draft programme, and also item 181 of the draft programme, House press 663 - Draft by Members of Helena Válková, Olga Richterová, Marek Výborný, Roman Sklenák, Zdeněk Ondráček, Helena Langšádlová, Martin Baxa, Věra Kovářová, Jana Levová and Jakub Michálek for the publication of the law amending the law on judicial interpreters and judicial translators, first reading according to § 90 para. 2, for item 44 of the draft programme and at the same time place it firmly on Wednesday 29. 1. as the first point at 14.30 hours; 5. firmly include item 288 - Final report of the OKD Investigation Commission, House document 3516, on Thursday 30. 1. as the first point after written interpelations; Next item 68, House press 665 - Proposal by Radek Vondráček, Vojtěch Pikal, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Marie Pěnčíková, Radovan Vích, Jan Farský, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Jiří Mihola for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2; and paragraph 69 of the proposal for a programme, House press 666 - Proposal by Radek Vondráček, Vojtěch Pikal, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Marie Pěnčíková, Radovan Vích, Jan Farský, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Jiří Mihola to issue a law amending Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as amended, first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 - these points place firmly on the center 12. 2. as the first points after possible points from the block of third reading. That's on my side, from the Gremium, all of it. [[14.10 hours]] I now ask Members to comment on the proposal where appropriate. With priority rights as the first President of Kalousek. Please, you have the floor. And I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to remain calm in the hall, if possible, in your seats. Thank you, everyone discussing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay particular attention to those who attend the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies because I will take an unusual step. And it's not really a breach of agreements. It's an attempt to explain a misunderstanding and a request for understanding. We agreed on the Gremium that on 31 January the first item after the written interpelations will be the subject of the OKD investigation committee. However, when we were discussing the point of the commission of inquiry on the influence of authoritarian regimes, this point was interrupted until 31 January 11.00 hours. It was interrupted in a situation where the general debate was closed, and the completion of this point is therefore a matter of five or ten minutes tops. Many of us explained the interruption until Thursday 31. 1. as firm - Sorry, the 30th. [[Member of the Faltynek from the post: January 30th.]] I'm sorry. 30. 1. Many of us explained it as a solid assignment. The legislation says otherwise that it can be at any time after Thursday after 11:00. That means he probably wouldn't have gotten around to it at this meeting. I ask you very much to understand that I will therefore - and I hope that this is the first and last time in this parliamentary term - make an amendment to the proposal for a grémia so that the completion of paragraph 30 is included as the first point. 1. after written interpelations to include the completion of the examination committee's item on authoritarian regimes, I really assure you that this is a matter of a few minutes, and then to proceed with the examination committee's item on OKD. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. I see this proposal as counter-proposal for the proposal of the Gremium, with one vote on all proposals submitted by the Gremium. We would then vote on the counter-proposal of President Kalousek, then, if necessary, on the original proposal from the Gremium. There. I'm asking who else is on the agenda. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to propose the inclusion of paragraph 118, House press 390. It is a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution for a rolling mandate, so that it is included as points 68 and 69, which are to be firmly inserted according to the proposal of the Gremia. This means that the proposal for a moving mandate, which we propose, together with colleagues Farský, Faltýnek, Okamura and many others, is to be included in the block concerning the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. There. If I don't see anyone else with priority rights, then first with a written application for the agenda, please Mrs Jana Černochová. With the replacement card number 16, Mrs Kozlová votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In recent years, around 11 September 2001, we have seen a relatively fundamental change in the security situation in the international environment. There are a number of security threats, risks. The number of international conflicts is multiplying, the risk of terrorism is increasing, the number of non-state actors threatening peace, security and stability is increasing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u7	I'll cut you off. The MP has a little bit of bad luck for that. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall! The meeting has already begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u8	Luckily, I don't take it personally, Mr. Chairman. [[With laughter.]] There is also a return in broad-spectrum understanding of the way security is influenced, where a combination of diplomatic, economic, intelligence and military instruments, popularly called hybrid warfare, is a return to less differentiated use of all effective tools to enforce the interests of the state. This transformation is closely linked to a significant reduction in the so-called warning time, and hence the necessary capacity of the state to respond flexibly, quickly and effectively to security threats. Our allied commitments require such a response, and our allies expect it from us both within the North Atlantic Alliance and within the European Union. I am referring to the ability to send flexibly armed forces into joint operations. But this ability is also required in cases where the rescue of Czech citizens detained abroad is necessary. Unfortunately, this flexibility does not allow the existing legislation contained in our Constitution, and it is a problem that I repeatedly refer to. There are more and more cases where the military, virtually. The Ministry of Defence had to apply for some general bianko checks for possible deployment of armed forces to undetermined locations in an over-established number of soldiers. That is why we are here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I can see you haven't seen each other in a long time, so go outside and say it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u10	That is why we have already started a discussion here at the House of Deputies during the last parliamentary term on the amendment of the relevant provisions of the Constitution contained in Article 43 and its result is this draft amendment of the Constitution, which I have been presenting together with other colleagues for the second time since it has not been discussed in the past. This is a proposal, which is a completely intentional and symbolically common initiative by more than sixty Members of the five parties, holding a clear position that our armed forces should continue to participate in the collective defence system and should be able to react quickly and, above all, flexibly in the current security situation, the aspects of which I outlined here at the outset. The new wording of Article 43 of the Constitution contained in this amendment will, for example, give the Government the opportunity to send armed forces abroad for a maximum period of 60 days without fulfilling other conditions, including informing the two chambers of Parliament. This will allow, for example, to send operational armed forces to rescue illegally detained hostages, but also to send units dedicated to the forces of NATO's very rapid response to respond to crisis situations in tens of hours, or to operations under the auspices of the European Union or the United Nations in dealing with crisis situations of military and non-military nature. Given that the Czech Republic has since this year's obligation to allocate thousands of soldiers to NATO's very rapid response forces, the adoption of this amendment is clearly even more recent, as there may indeed be situations where the rapid transmission of these soldiers by the government at the request of the Alliance will therefore have to be addressed and the existing anchoring in our Constitution may be questionable. I would like to point out here, fellow Members, that this proposal does not in any way undermine the control power of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which, by an absolute majority, can abolish any decision of the government and replace the deployment of forces or prohibit the government, or commit the government to their withdrawal. [[Stop?]] At the same time, I would like to point out that the existing text of the Constitution already confers this power on the Government in certain cases, and that it is therefore not such a fundamental change that would significantly strengthen executive powers. It is simply that the response of the armed forces in acute cases is, if possible, immediate, flexible and without undue delay, as the current international situation requires. [[14.20 hours]] The amendment also brings even a slight change in the process of approving flights and transits of the armed forces of other states through and over our territory, where, in response to established practice, the government would decide not every single flight and transit, but would decide on the method of authorising them, or could delegate this power to the Ministry of Defence. Ladies and gentlemen. As I have already said, this is a proposal that has undergone a thorough technical and political discussion, has been consulted with renowned constitutional lawyers and is indeed lege artis with our Constitution. It has been processed in line with the demands that have arisen from the Wales Summit, and it is quite comfortable to discuss it. This proposal even has the support of Prime Minister Babiš, who also signed up for the proposal, has the support of Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, a number of other colleagues. Of course, even the Ministry of Defense, only the Minister of Defence couldn't sign off on it because he's not a MP. So I would like to ask you not to delay. The proposal is here for more than six months, he is interested in discussing it, even after his inclusion in the Chamber of Deputies programme, to the chairman of the ANO Club Mr.Faltýnek, who promised me that once the budget was discussed, we would discuss this proposal. We have a budget, I'm choosing Mr. Faltýnek's promise here, and I'm asking my honourable colleagues for support. Because I understand that this week there's gonna be a whole bunch of things that are gonna be urgent and important again, and I don't want to put it on this week. I want to put this point next week, and that's always the first point at first readings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u11	So in the block of the first reading to include this... Yes, I understand, first in the book of laws at first reading. Member Václav Klaus on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Happy New Year. We have two points on the agenda that we would like to give, maybe a little bit more. The first is called the Government's Opinion on the implementation of the European Parliament Directive 2017/853, which we would like to put on next Tuesday after the fixed points first. This is a weapon directive that European legislation is trying to reduce the rights of citizens holding a gun by the salami method. Briefly, meritorně. In the Czech Republic, the maximum crime rate is committed by legal weapons and we are among the safest countries in the world. Our armament industry is also the pride of our industry and so on and so on. That's not why I'm talking. I am talking because this is a flagrant example of the loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, because a wave of ill-fated hunters, people from shooting galleries and so on has risen against this directive. We had some of them at a press conference today. The Czech political parties, even the government, responded and even drove the whole thing to the European Court to decide. The European Court ruled as always, which means in favour of European structures against the sovereign state of the Czech Republic. And I want to ask the government what our position will be, whether you will duck and implement all this nonsense in four different laws, registering replicas of historical weapons and so on, or whether it is appropriate to keep what you promise voters in the media, as you speak in the squares, to bring it to the consequences here in the House. I would very much like to clarify this matter, so that when it is said so thoroughly that something else is called to voters, but then there is a nice, quiet vote in the House. And I would like to discuss this point because it is evident that the interest of the Czech Republic and the government expressed is exactly the opposite of what we will be forced to vote for. So that's the first point I propose. The second point I'd put right behind him, if you were that love, I'd call it "digital Palermo." Now, here in the Czech Republic, there is a very rich case about an electronic highway stamp. I don't want to evaluate the role of individual actors, that's not why I'm talking. I am in total - if the contract is cheaper from 400 million to 300 or 200 and if the Minister or the Minister will change four more times, it does not excite me so much, but again I would like to debate whether it is only marketing passwords, such as Digital Czech Republic, or whether it is not digital harassment of citizens and companies and huge corruption opportunities under this cape. Because the development and progress of technological development is driven by private entities. And I am actually convinced that when the government does something, it will end in a way by spying on citizens like China, or it will end up with similar comic orders for an electronic highway stamp, 20 or 50 times overpriced. And we have to realize that no one needs that electronic stamp at the core, because that classic stamp is available at every post office, at every pump, people can buy it in one second. And they're also buying the right that no one is constantly following them when they're on the highway: where they're going, why they're going and when they're going. So I would like to open this point to clarify the position of the government, what digital issues it will promote, whether it is always a loss of citizens' responsibilities and a loss of bureaucracy, or vice versa. So that's about the two points that affect Czech citizens, I think. They're serious, so I'd like to put them on next Tuesday. They're not in the form of the law. We have other laws for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. So for both of you, you're proposing a firm classification - one first, the other after the fixed points. On the agenda of the meeting of Mr Ondřej Profant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u14	Dear colleagues, dear citizens, I would follow up on my previous speaker. I'm sure you've heard of an information system contract for the sale of highway stamps. The State Fund for Transport Infrastructure deliberately bypassed the Centre for Transport Information Systems of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic and made it completely unnecessary for verification. This and other incompetent steps made the contract very expensive up to the resulting CZK 400 million only for the software and the other hundreds of millions are to be paid for sales points. Overall, the entire electronic motorway stamp is coming out of the groove rather than paper. This is admitted by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and experts, such as Tomáš Havryluk from Alza.cz. The Prime Minister has already called off the Minister of Transport for this outrage, but I think the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure has also failed. According to my information, this from the beginning the suspicious project took note of its 132rd meeting on 13 March 2019. I therefore propose a point of appeal to the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I propose to include this point at 14.30 tomorrow, i.e. as the first item in the afternoon part of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. On the agenda of the meeting as another Member of Zdeněk Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to direct your attention to two points, first of all, point 9, this is the House press 550, the amendment to the municipal police law, which we have presented as a group of Members. Basically, I dare say, it is quite a problem-free point, because both the subcommittee on the police and the Security Committee adopted the amendment unanimously. But we are in such a problem, say, part of the deadline, but there is still one problem where we have an amendment here that we did not have the position of the Union of Cities and Communities on, and since I feel responsible for being a Member, I did not want to vote on this amendment without this opinion. I therefore ask you, together with the petitioners, to make room for us, and that means item 9, House print number 550, not today or tomorrow or this week, but to place it firmly on Tuesday of the variable week, that is, on 11 February, as the first item of the hearing, or, if something else were to be included there, on the basis of the fixed points, but as the first point. You will give us even a short space to make one amendment, on which we agree as committee members that it is for discussion, and we would be able to support it mostly for the benefit of the officers of the municipal and urban police, that is, it concerns each of you, because you are often also mayor of the municipalities, but at the same time you are also in the region and you are coming into contact with the city officers, so we would like to discuss this point further, but seriously discuss it so that we can read the amendment in the second reading if we find internal support across the political spectrum, and I expect it to happen. This will not be a long reading, because the amendments that we are proposing as a Committee on Security are mostly supported, and this one point, which we could not discuss for objective reasons, which I am now informing you of, we would like to give even more. So I'm asking you not to discuss this point this week, but only in the week from February 11th, in the week variable. And second attention, and now I think you should pay even more attention to me than you've given me so far, that's point 178. Unfortunately, it's classified very, very far away. It's House press number 657. This is the point that we have been talking about here, and I think that perhaps the colleague who tabled a similar amendment will also express himself, and it is the point that the group of Members is putting forward that the problem is that the sentenced person in prison got pregnant and we had to release her from the law. In agreement with the Ministry of Justice, we have prepared this issue - thank you to the Minister of Justice and the entire apparatus of the Ministry of Justice for helping us - we have presented this material. Again, it is House Press 657, paragraph 178, but given that it is a parliamentary proposal, because unfortunately we are a little pressed for time, so it is not on the agenda of the day. So I'm gonna ask you for an alternative assignment. I do not expect that there should be a major problem in discussing this point. I don't expect it, because perhaps we all want the person who is socially dangerous to be in prison and not to have these similar cases in the future, where they use a gap in the law and a dangerous perpetrator, if you want to be a murderer, will be on the loose. I say this because I am also a member of the Security Committee in the Hradec Králové Region, where the person concerned lives. At present, it is covered by the fact that, for another reason, it is criminally prosecuted and in custody, but of course, this cannot be done indefinitely. So, colleagues, please be responsible, try to help us in this direction in order to correct this lack of criminal order, on which we have agreed again, majorityly, in the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum. It's not politics. It's just a matter that needs to be resolved, and as soon as possible. I will ask you, alternatively, to include this point - and I would first of all ask the President of the largest member club to find, in agreement with the lady guarantor, a date when - to place firmly on Wednesday 22. 1st at 2:30 p.m., that means tomorrow, and I say again, I don't expect a big discussion on Tuesday, 28. 1. as the first point in case we do not discuss any Senate matters that we will negotiate today, or, colleagues, on Wednesday 28. 1. at 14.30 hours as the first point, or as the first point after the points already included. Let's find a time to discuss this, please. We'll send it to the constitutional law committee for second reading, and then we'll deal with it somehow. We just need you to give us one vote and we can move on to second reading. As a translator, I dare say that we will be very rational and we will require five, tops, ten minutes of your honored time. Thank you for supporting this problem, which I hope we want to resolve across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. On the agenda, Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by wishing you, which I have not yet done so, a beautiful new year and a lot of strong nerves, and I would draw your attention to paragraph 124 of the draft meeting. This is the House Press 405, which is before the first reading. This bill was submitted by me, Mr Farský and the rest of the Pirates. It is a proposal aimed at abolishing, in fact, the fee for the submission of the complaint to the Competition Supervisory Authority, or to the Antimonopoly Office, as is commonly known. As I say, we have made this proposal 19. 2nd last year. The government took a negative position on him 19. The 3rd of last year. It is still appropriate to recall that this legislative regulation was also proposed by the public defender of rights in her report for 2016. And by plenary of the Constitutional Court, the ten thousandth fee for the complaint was abolished on 13. 11. 2019. I am glad that the Constitutional Court thus gave the truth to the Czech Pirate Party and abolished this non-systemic and non-constitutional fee, thus fulfilling the purpose of our legislative initiative. At the time, the public defender of rights, as I have already mentioned, also objected to counterconstitution with us. The parliamentary regulation, which came from the original government bill to the House, was contrary to the principles of the rule of law and constitutional order. The fee was a disproportionate restriction on the right of petition under Article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and was also contrary to Article 21 of the Charter, which guarantees civil society participation in governance. The fee violated the principle of equivalence, did not allow exemptions or other concessions, including the irreversibility of the fee in the case of a reasoned complaint. The flat-rate impact of charges on all complainants of incentives without distinction - including public authorities, sometimes even municipalities themselves had to pay this fee, and so on, even if they are obliged to initiate an official duty - was not legitimate in any way. Moreover, the adjustment was so unsystemic that it did not allow any remedy to be applied. I am very happy for this decision by the Constitutional Court, which was supported by civil society and non-profit organizations seeking to cultivate a public procurement environment in the Czech Republic. Therefore, as a representative of the appellant, pursuant to § 86 (1) of the EC Treaty. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, in agreement with other appellants, I withdraw this proposal because it has already been implemented. I think we should download points that we can no longer reach and that are no longer worth discussing. Thank you. And with this, we have one task accomplished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u19	Thank you for improving the statistics of the Chamber of Deputies. We take note of the withdrawal, there is no need to vote on it. With priority rights, the President of Farský on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been motivated here by Mr Ondráček's proposal to make one more proposal, because of the so-called proposal. The case of a pregnant murderer involves two prints. I don't think it would be practical if they discussed each other separately, because at that point, one of them would be hanging here while the other one would have been discussed and then we would have either downloaded it or dragged it in the backpack of unnegotiated prints behind us. And so I would like to propose that House Press No. 551, paragraph 162 of the meeting - and now it will be a little more complex construction, but I have consulted the President for a preliminary ruling - in order to vote on a firm classification, after this point, paragraph 162. Otherwise, humanly speaking, if a firm inclusion is announced on one of the three terms proposed by Mr Ondráček here, in the press of 657, there will be a vote on the fixed inclusion of paragraph 162 after this point 178. If none of the terms proposed here are any of the variants, then neither will be voted on the fixed classification of paragraph 162. So if they are discussed firmly, they will be discussed in their own hands. That's the gros of this proposal. Thank you for your support so that we can merge the debate on the same subject here in these two prints and only go through it once, and we don't have to go back to it at other meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. The motion shall be put to the vote. If none of Mr Ondráček's proposals were approved, we will not vote on your proposal either. There. Next on the agenda - President Pekarová Adamová, then President Bartošek, and this should be all about the agenda at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I also greet you in the new year and wish you all the best in it. I would like to begin by recalling my request to include a new item on the agenda for this meeting as an agenda for the Human Rights Commissioner. The executive has a agenda for human rights, Romani minorities, national minorities, non-profit organizations, disabled, social inclusion and gender equality. We can all agree that, in particular, high moral credit is needed to perform such a function, just as we agree that such credit is requested from the Ombudsman or public defender of rights and the Ombudsman. And as we have witnessed in recent weeks and days, unfortunately, one of the candidates did not meet this strict criterion, and I do not see the reason why it should meet the criteria that are actually the same for the exercise of the office of Human Rights Commissioner. We can say here together that it may not really matter to us as Members, that it is the responsibility of the government and that we will follow or that the saying "what mother, so katka" applies. But in this regard, I would like to say that if the government stood up to it in the way that it did, even if ministers for social democracy had already been heard in the previous few days that the moral credit of the current Human Rights Commissioner, Mrs Helena Válková, was not sufficient for them, I cannot agree that we have exhausted all the possibilities, as the President of the ČSSD Hamáček claims. I believe that there are still options, which is why I am asking you to place a new point in our meeting in two alternatives. Either today as the first point, or if, for whatever reason, you want to give priority to all the points we already have on today's agenda, as the point at Thursday's meeting, the first point after the written intercessions, so that we can place a point called the Human Rights Commissioner. I think that, as the House, we should not put our heads in the sand before those who hold these positions, and we should, unlike the government, face it so much that we will therefore express our clear opinion as to whether our trust and all our support is shared by the current Commissioner. I would therefore like to propose a resolution which we could adopt on this issue, namely that we do not support Professor Helena Válková at the post of Human Rights Commissioner for the Government, that we call on the Government to withdraw from this position at its nearest meeting, and we ask her to appoint a new Human Rights Commissioner without undue delay. We also ask the Prime Minister to report to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay on the procedure for selecting a new Human Rights Commissioner. Four people have already left the Council of the Government for the Roma Minority or the Human Rights Council, whether it was Mr Kroupa, Mr Němeček or Smekal or Mrs Kettnerová last night. So the reputation of this function has already suffered enough scratches to keep us out of sight and not just let it go like this. That's why I'm asking you to place this point, and I hope we can agree that we want to return the credit to this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Did Prime Minister Michálek want to be on the show? [[He doesn't want to get out.]] No. In that case, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm coming up with a request to add a new item to the House of Deputies programme. The proposal for this point is a call to the Government of the Czech Republic to preserve nuclear safety and non-proliferation of nuclear technologies by dictatorial regimes. It is a call from the Chamber of Deputies to the Government on Security. The reason for this challenge is the high degree of unpredictability, inscrutableness and the real danger of certain Iranian forces, particularly the Revolutionary Guards, which are not subject to the political leadership of the state, including the President, but exclusively the so-called. leader of Sajjid Alí Chameneí. It is highly likely that if Iran acquires nuclear military technology and is able to create a nuclear weapon, it will undoubtedly be under full control of the revolutionary guards, which cannot be accepted if we too do not want to live in great fear. Needless to say, the recent tragedy of the Ukrainian transport aircraft was caused by the revolutionary guards. He said it was an accident. But a mistake with a nuclear weapon would be completely fatal, which I believe we must not allow. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] For this reason, if this point is included, a resolution will also be read, which states that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to act actively at home and international fora and to prevent Iran from gaining technology for the production of nuclear weapons. In the event that this item is placed at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, I ask that it be included today after the Senate vomit or next Tuesday after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Most of the contributions here lie in the drafting of laws, so I will be included in the second category, the withdrawal of bills, as Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal has already spoken here, and I am withdrawing the draft law, which is conducted as House Press 406, paragraph 125 on the agenda of this meeting, concerns the damage caused by officials, on the grounds that we have already managed to enforce this bill within the House Press 69.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. We're aware of that. I said, anybody else on the agenda? I don't see anybody, so I'm gonna call our colleagues from the lobby and we're gonna deal with the individual proposals as they were. So, first of all, we would vote on all the grémia proposals, as I have read them here, except for the solid inclusion of the OKD report by the Investigative Commission, because there was a counterproposal by President Kalousek to 30. 1. at 11 o'clock they first negotiated a point concerning: Investigation committee on the influence of authoritarian regimes in the Czech Republic, where the general debate is concluded. If President Kalousek's counter-proposal had not been adopted, we would have voted on the original proposal of the Gremium. So, first of all, all proposals from the Gremium except for the OKD investigation committee report, we're going to vote separately. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 190, for 184, against no one. The motion was accepted. So now we're going to vote for that interrupted point to be 30. 1st at 11 o'clock as the first point, and therefore with the proposed point grémia 288 - Final report of the Investigation Commission on OKD - becomes second point 30. One, when it comes down to it. Initiating vote. I ask you, who is in favour of this counterproposal? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 190, for 168, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman? [[Messenger. Stanjura tells off the microphone that his colleague's voting device isn't working.]] So, just a second, we need to check the voting device. [[Correction of the voting device is in progress.]] So the problem with the voting device has been eliminated. I ask if my colleague is questioning the vote. It's not like that, so we can continue. First of all, President Michálek spoke and asked for the inclusion of paragraph 118, press 390, a slippery mandate, for points 68 and 69, which we had just placed firmly within the framework of theGremial proposal. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 4, there are 191 Members, for 144, against 11. This proposal was adopted. There is also Mrs Černochová's proposal to include the amendment to the Constitution on the flexibility of the deployment of armed forces, House Press 557, as the first item of the first reading block. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number five, 191 Members registered, for 66, against 35. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there are two proposals for new points to be included in this session by Mr Klaus. First of all, this would be the inclusion of a point in the Government's Opinion on the implementation of Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament, i.e. the inclusion of this point first. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 6, registered is 192, for 53, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. There is also a proposal for the inclusion of a point that Mr. Digital Palermo called professionally. Excuse me, I'd stick to that name. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered 192, for 74, versus 25. This proposal was not adopted. Next, we will vote on the proposal by Mr Profant, who proposes to include a new item in the agenda of the meeting by calling off the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered 192, for 53, versus 3. The motion was not accepted. There is now Mr Ondráček's proposal for a fixed inclusion of item number 9 of the draft agenda, House press 550, the amendment to the Municipal Police Act. He's the first to include 11. 2. as the first point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered 192, for 95, versus 11. The motion was not accepted. Alternatively, Mr Ondráček proposed the inclusion on the same day after the fixed points. I'm not sure 11 at this time. 2. is a fixed point. [[It's not.]] Therefore, it would be pointless to vote essentially on the same content as the first point that was not approved. Another proposal by Mr Ondráček is the inclusion of paragraph 178, House press 657, amendment to the Criminal Code. And here are some suggestions. First, the inclusion of this press tomorrow as the first item, 22. 1. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered 192, for 83, versus 3. The motion was not accepted. Then, alternatively, there was a proposal to include 28. One, and that's the first point. The Member had a comment here - if the laws of the Senate were to be discussed, otherwise it would be under the law of the Senate. That's voteable from my point of view. [[15.00 hours]] First, we would therefore vote on inclusion as the first point 28. 1. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 11. Registered 192, for 82, versus 1. So we didn't include this press as the first point. On the agenda of the meeting, the draft agenda of the meeting at this moment does not count on the laws returned to the Senate at all on that day. Just hypothetically, if they hadn't been discussed. So I consider the second proposal unvoting. The Member proposes that this law be - the third proposal that has been made, so it was firmly at 14.30 pm 28. 1. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. 29. One? [[Attention from the diaper.]] [[Yes.]] 29, maybe. 1:00 p.m., 2:30 p.m. Who's against it? Voting number 12. Registered 192, for 78, against no one. The proposal was not adopted and we have therefore exhausted the various alternative proposals. And since we have adopted the proposal that, at 14.30 o'clock, the House press will be 663 on interpreters, then the voteable proposal by Mr Ondráček is to include the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure after this firmly placed point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 13. Registered is 192, for 84. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Given that neither firm inclusion has been successful, we will not vote on President Farský's proposal either, and we will therefore vote on the new point proposed by President Pekarová Adamová, concerning the Government Human Rights Commissioner. I'm sorry, I didn't see a specific draft of that point. Human Rights Commissioner, according to written submissions. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14. Registered 192, for 74, against 55. This proposal has not been adopted. We have to deal with President Bartošek's proposal, which proposes to place a new point on the Czech Government's call for non-proliferation of nuclear hazards. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 15. Registered 191, 67, no one. This proposal has not been adopted. That is all at the moment and we will vote on the draft agenda for the meeting as a whole. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the proposed agenda for the forthcoming meeting, as amended? Who's against it? Voting number 16. Registered 192, for 153, versus 4. The motion was accepted. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. I'm opening a new point
