ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards or tell me who votes with your replacement card. With a replacement card number 17, I vote - Radek Vondráček. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 58th meeting on 3 September of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. Today is September 15th, birthday is celebrated by colleague František Navrkal, so we wish you all the best in quarantine. [[Let's hear it.]] And our precious colleague Kateřina Valachová celebrates her birthday. Happy birthday. [[Screaming, applause.]] We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Leo Luzar and Members of Jiří Mihola. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. I don't see anyone. I've called in colleagues from the lobby, but there are plenty of us. I am opening the vote on the persons of the verifiers. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, logged in is 84, for 81, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of all the Clubs. We would therefore now proceed to the 58th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First I'll introduce you to Gremia's designs, it'll be a little longer. We're suggesting First, exclude items 31 and 373 of the draft programme from the proposal - House press 58, the Government's bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, second and third reading. [[Act on Medicines]] Further eliminate paragraphs 22 and 364 of the draft programme - House printing 756, a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the further electronisation of public authorities' procedures, second and third reading. Furthermore, discard paragraphs 48 and 390 of the draft programme - print 652, proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended, second and third reading. Furthermore, rule out point 52 - House printing 890, the Government's proposal for a law to mitigate the impact of the decline in municipal tax revenues in 2020 in relation to the Coronavirus epidemic referred to as SARS CoV-2, first reading under Section 90 para. 2. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to include laws at the end of the second reading block: paragraph 3 of the draft programme, print 92, firearms, item 4 of the draft programme - printing 669, weapons handling, and paragraph 9 of the draft programme - House printing 910 - this is the tax press. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to include a new item in the proposal for a programme - the promotion of private entities in live culture. Four. firmly include point 1 - House printing 673/5, draft law amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws, returned by the Senate - on Tuesday 29 September as the first item of the meeting. In addition, point 447 - House printing 782, Proposal for an extension of the duration of the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic; Point 459 - printing 876, Proposal for the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Interior in foreign operations in 2021 and 2022 with a view to 2023. [[properly defense]] And a new point, if included, to promote private subjects in live culture - on Thursday 17 as the first three points after written interpelations. The Grémium further proposes to include paragraph 288 - print 943, the proposal of Members Vlastimil Válek, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jan Farský, Jan Lipavský, Jan Bartošek, Jan Chvojka, Roman Kubíček, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law on compensation for some victims of suppression of demonstrations for the first anniversary of the occupation of Czechoslovakia, first reading according to § 90 para. 2 - on Wednesday 30 September as the first point at 14.30. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to include point 457 - print 843, the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2019 - on Thursday 1 October as the first point at 11 o'clock. That's all from the grémia at the moment. I just, Mr. Chairman... [[This is Radim Fiala.]] I have a few here with priority rights. I can give you a vote... bohužel, I have priority rights, so... But some of them logged in earlier, so... I'm registering your application, and I'll give you my word. There. Now with priority rights first, President Pekarová Adamová is signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u2	Dear government, or her torso, esteemed colleagues. I come before you with two specific new points, which I would like to place at a meeting that begins today. The first point is obvious. The evolution of the situation with Coronavirus and the evolution of how the epidemic is taking on, the trend is taking on unflattering figures in the Czech Republic, it is so alarming that I can't imagine that we wouldn't start focusing on it here in the Chamber of Deputies. That is why I am asking you to place a new point at this House meeting, and I ask that we do so as the second point of this meeting today, only after we have resolved the back of the Senate, namely the current situation of the COVID-19 epidemic in the Czech Republic. We have become premiers of a country that currently has one of the worst numbers - by far not only in the number of newly infected, i.e. confirmed cases, but also in the number of people who gradually need additional help - to convert to 100,000 inhabitants. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] [[14.10 hours]] I firmly believe that you are not indifferent and that we are really aware of the risks that are taking place here. Gradually, individual countries close their borders to us. Of course, this already affects the economic situation and affects not only our Pendlers, but our businesses, businessmen, people who trade with these countries. Travel agencies and many others, of course. I think we should deal with the health situation and not stick our heads in the sand and tell ourselves that the situation is trouble-free. We want the same thing from you since spring, the same thing, and even now in September, it's still up to date. We want to know the data, the possible development scenarios you're counting on, and the plan how to solve each scenario. People are no longer lost in what they are paying for measures, it is really chaos and confusion, it does not stop, but the government is unable to agree on such trivial things as the activation of the Central Crisis Staff. That is why I want to appeal in particular to the Social Democrats - we are happy to support you in some of your proposals, we also see the need to establish or reactivate the Central Crisis Staff - so let us now place that point so that we can have a debate on this and so that we can convince those colleagues from your government who do not see it this way. We have a number of specific questions. Randomly - regarding the situation in regional health stations, the connection of these sanitary stations to so-called. the virtual call center system of Daktela, when it happened, why only when it happened, because the information is that three regional sanitary stations were not connected last week. How exactly has the capacity of regional sanitation stations been strengthened, how many people today deal with these individual hygiene routes and what prevents them from being even better equipped and strengthened. We want to know information that is also related to the planned so-called self-traption or self-portation. We want to know how you are dealing with the area of involvement of other components, such as the Police of the Czech Republic, in this activity and many others. Last week, TOP 09 came up with a proposal for concrete measures that would need to be done not only on health care stations, but also that patients and, of course, doctors also have clear, concrete instructions to avoid the stories that it works differently in every practice. I think it's a fundamental requirement that, if we're not completely ignorant, we feel it's necessary. We want risk groups to be protected and really good drapes available. We have here a wide range of Czech manufacturers, manufacturers of nanos, respirators and other goods. We want them to be more involved. And we also made specific demands that we be prepared for a situation where the vaccine is already available. Legislation needs to be changed. We want to know if the D.O.D. is working on it, what stage are these things at? Test capacity - constantly mentioned problem. If you wanted to order here in Prague last night, as a regular citizen, you didn't have a chance until Friday this week. If you have symptoms, if you're the one who really needs it, it's a very long time. We all see that the current government approach, most of its members, is either sticking your head in the sand or transferring responsibility to others. It is now popular to blame citizens for being inconsistent with the measures, for not caring about their surroundings, etc. Or maybe it's kind of a reality cover-up. Let's stop dancing to the Titanik that's leaking into us. Let's stop pretending that nothing's going on on on that deck. There is confusion everywhere, in schools, of course it is also a question of hygiene stations, tracking and other things. That is why I am asking for this point, and I ask you not to pretend that when you're from the government side, you have to stick to the bass with your ministers and with the Prime Minister. I believe that you all care that it doesn't get out of control even more than it already is, if it can still be regained. Therefore, the first point right after the Senate point we have here today - and once again I appeal, government, wake up, we have proposals for concrete solutions, we have introduced them, we want to discuss them and we want them to start being implemented. We don't need to pat each other on the shoulders of authorship, we just want you to copy it and make it work. The second point, which I would like to ask to include, also a new point at the meeting, would be that of Decree No. 27/2016 Coll., on the education of pupils with special educational needs and pupils gifted, with indication of the proposed changes. The reason is simple. This decree, which is intended to enable handicapped children to learn in the mainstream of education, i.e. the so-called inclusion, has given rise to such amendments, which have frightened both school directors and teachers and many parents of such children quite rightly. According to the new wording of this decree, they would lose the opportunity to further educate themselves. If I make it very simple, it's supposed to be savings, and they're savings in the worst possible place. That is why I want us, although it is a decree of the Ministry - standard of course, we do not approve - to submit it here to the debate and to really learn the reasons that led the Ministry to this step. I suggest we do so on Friday, because I do not see Minister Plaga present. So that he has the opportunity to prepare for this and come to the meeting, so please make it Friday, the first point of our negotiations. I realize, and the TOP 09 would be the last party that wouldn't want us in this hugely tight budget with a debt that we have as a burden for future generations to spare. [[Saved?]] But we don't consider saving money in this very place right at all. So please let us take this into account and let these children and their parents and teachers in school get in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u3	I thank you, and thank you for the written basis, it makes my work easier. Next, please - with priority rights, President Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, three, two at this time, two ministers of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I must say, I am sorry that there is neither the Prime Minister nor any of the vice-premieres here to begin the proper meeting after almost two months. I think that we are in a pretty important situation even in terms of those points that are being announced, which will be on the agenda in the coming hours and days. However, I will allow myself here to present what I announced last week, that I want us to discuss today on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies - I will propose it in variants, but ideally as the first point of this meeting - the current situation, namely the point which I call the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the negative development of the CARS-CoV-2 pandemic in the Czech Republic. And I have a whole series of reasons why I'd like this to be discussed here. I have a few questions that not only I have, but also the citizens of the Czech Republic have. And I want to start by saying that we as KDU-ČSL were at the time of April, May this year, and we are a party that is ready to cooperate constructively, because the situation is exceptional, it has never been like this. We think that when it comes to people's health, lives and the future of the Czech Republic, we should try to pull together as much as possible. But I dare ask myself a few questions. What really changed in six months? What is the Czech Republic better prepared for? What has changed in the field of legislation? How can we protect the most vulnerable groups? Yes, I can say that there is a certain effort to provide protective equipment for about four days, not even, those that have gone by the Czech Post now, or are walking, but are turning to me, and I assume that you too, a number of other groups of people. People who are chronically ill have reduced immunity, have someone like that in their home, care for oncological patients and so on, and they also ask and ask if the state would also help them with the security of protective equipment, because they may also be struggling with the fact that they do not have enough funds. So please, if the government could systematically address the protection of all vulnerable groups of our society, not only by age, but also by other criteria, so that it can be comprehensive. [[14.20 hours]] There is also a big appeal from the public in recent days and a question of access to testing. There are states where Prime Minister and others call on people to go test themselves if they suspect, have symptoms, do not postpone it, and even are states that offer it to their citizens for free. In our country we see people waiting for testing in order systems for four days, or when there is no order system, they are standing in line for several hours in Wenceslas Square and wondering if this is adequate 21st century. So we are appealing very much to increase the capacity of testing in the Czech Republic and possibly to allow greater price availability for those who do not have it for holiday reasons, but maybe because they are not sure they are not yet haunted, and we have to say that there are many cases where people tell us that someone in their neighborhood has been tested positive, they have met with it, but maybe in the order of one two days from hygiene they have no information about whether to go into quarantine or not, and these people would also like to voluntarily test themselves. And what is very important - also monitor the impacts that are becoming on the Czech Republic from other countries, Slovakia, Holland and other countries, when we get to the red lists. It's a big problem for companies, etc. So there are many moments where I would consider it necessary for this issue to be discussed here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and let the government present to us, and above all to citizens, what concrete measures, concrete solutions, systemic measures and solutions are here for the next few days and weeks, so that we can manage the situation so that in 10 or 14 days the situation is not even more difficult and difficult. Telling them not to be scared or anything is possible, but it is not quite what the solution offers. I would also like to see the meeting of the Presidents of all the parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies to be convened because the current situation is not only about medical, epidemiological measures, but also about measures that have a great impact on society and the economy in relation to economic instruments such as updating the cursarbeit, such as the outlook for the next year's budget, or perhaps the proposals that are now in the public space, such as the abolition of the supergross wage, which President Miloš Zeman has also said. These are huge impacts on the state budget, which have a huge overlap than one parliamentary term in this government. I just want to point out that, in the event of the abolition of a supergross wage, it also affects the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions, small and medium-sized enterprises that depend on contracts from cities, from municipalities, from regions. But it is often a false idea spread by the Minister of Finance when he says such a general idea that on average everyone loses an extra CZK 1,500 a month. It's not true with middle- and low-income parents. That's not true. They won't get any such support in the finals. That is why we appeal if there is an ambition to help people in this situation, let's do it simply by increasing the discount on the taxpayer, increasing the discount on children and reducing employers' contributions for employees. As a KDU-ČSL we have proposed it, we will propose it, it is much simpler, more meaningful, more efficient and faster solution, with better focus on those who need it. It would also be good to discuss the question of pension reform and the like, whether it is at least the will to make some parametric changes by the end of this parliamentary term. Therefore, I appeal very much to the Prime Minister, to the Government - please, communicate with the public openly, regardless of whether he is or is not before the elections, and invite all the representatives of the other parties in the House to do so, because the situation is serious and clearly exceeds this term of office. I would like to conclude by recapitulating that I propose a point for KDU-ČSL, which I announced last week, the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the negative development of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 in the Czech Republic. I give this alternative, Mr President - today as the first item in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, today as a fixed item at 18.30 and tomorrow as a fixed item also at 18.30. Thank you for complying with my request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Your speech reminded me that although we agreed as members of Parliament, it is necessary to read the apologies of the members of the government. He apologizes Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Marie Benešová for personal reasons, Lubomír Metnar for work reasons, Tomáš Petříček for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek for work reasons and Adam Vojtěch for work reasons. I have here another written application, with priority rights Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. The President of Michálek will prepare himself with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. I sent it to a grémia meeting. I suggest we make a firm first to third point on day 30. 9., i.e. next Wednesday, at 14.30 three points: paragraph 189, print 508, point 188, print 526, and point 187, print 549. They're sorted by the time they were filed. This is a solution to the constitutional anchoring of water protection. The Constitutional Commission of our Chamber of Deputies came to a conclusion last week that allows the press to be discussed, and it is possible to continue to do so. I would like us to achieve by the end of the parliamentary term the objective pursued here by most political parties, i.e. anchoring water protection, water resources and water management. I think we're in agreement. I think that even the proposals for solutions are essentially identical, although they are in two variants in the three proposals, but the first two versions of the press 508 and 526 are similar, and we could then approach this in a merged debate and find a solution that would allow us not only to adopt a specific text in the Chamber of Deputies, but to send it to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, given that it is a constitutional law, so that we can approve this by the end of the parliamentary term. That's why I repeat, Wednesday 30. 9. at 14.30 as the first to third points of points 189, print 508, print 188, print 526 and print 187, print 549. Thank you for complying with this request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u7	Mr Vice-President, just a moment, there's been a slight collision here. The 14.30 Grémium suggested compensation for the 1969 victims. At 2:30. So do you insist that your proposal be voted, or would you agree that after this point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u8	It is a constitutional law, but, of course, in the alternative, it can be a second, third and fourth point after the proposal of the Gremium.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u9	Okay, we'll vote both. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. President Radim Fiala will be ready and then President Chvojka will be ready. All priority rights to the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Pirates, ODS, TOP 09, KDU and STAN, after discussing the Grémium, I propose that a new point be included in the agenda for the meeting, which is: Checking the fulfilment of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 1162 of 4 June 2020 to evaluate the course of the first wave of the Coronavirus pandemic in the Czech Republic and proposing further measures to prevent the second wave of the spread of Coronavirus in the Czech Republic. As you've all noticed, the actual numbers are increasing. They are growing dramatically more than in other Central European countries, and the situation is about three times worse than it was in March when an emergency was declared. [[14.30 hours]] I believe that the Chamber of Deputies should deal with this the same way it did before the holiday when it approved resolution 1162, which it imposed on the Government on preventing the second wave. Now we have her here. Unfortunately, this is also due to the fact that some things that were to happen did not happen. For example, we have called on the government to meet regularly with the Central Epidemiology Commission and to ensure cooperation with international partners. We also requested that a report be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on the solution and planned measures to be submitted by 4. 9. We didn't get that either. Of course, we discussed testing the regional sanitation station so that the maximum length of time between possible contagion and when quarantine is ordered. I can tell my personal story. Unfortunately, I was told that the quarantine wasn't ordered until the ninth day after contact with my colleague František Navrkal. Day nine - and the tenth day is over. Both tests negative, then. So I hope this is a very special case of administrative failure, but I would still like to have data at my disposal to show what the average times are, what the cyclical times are, so that really every citizen in the Czech Republic can be sure that if a colleague at work or a family member infects him, he will be quarantined very quickly so that he doesn't spread it around and at the same time gets the test fast enough to know what he's up to. That is why the testing centres need to be strengthened, and I think that this should also be part of the resolution that we are going to vote on. Of course, the resolution should include the appeal of the Chamber of Deputies to the Central Crisis Staff. After all, it was the government that prepared the draft amendment to the Constitution to include the Central Crisis Staff in the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic. The proposal is not yet in the Chamber of Deputies, but the idea is certainly appropriate. So I would like to ask you if you could agree to include this point on a fixed time tomorrow at 14.30 p.m., so that the Minister of Health can prepare for it, and on that point we would go through the task of the resolution approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister would speak with a report on the state and other planned measures, and at the same time the Chamber of Deputies would express their will in relation to the proposals for new measures, which need to be implemented urgently in order to cope with the second wave of pandemic in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u12	Hello, thank you for your word. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I want to contradict what has been said here as a motion for a resolution from the Gremium. Although I was personally present at the grémium, President Okamura was also personally present, and some other MPs were also there and told me that it certainly did not sound verbally on the grémium that we, as the appellants, would like to eliminate Act No. 48, House Press 652, assistance in material distress, which is proposed by the SPD movement. It didn't say verbally. We want the law to be discussed. And all I can say is that I believe that this is an oversight, that it is not a struggle of the government or of Minister Maláčová against opposition bills, that it would be moved there in this way, so that it would pass as a grémium resolution. So, Mr President, I am asking you either to take this out of the proposal that will be approved from the Gremium, or to vote on it separately. And if it's going to be a separate vote, I want to tell you again that the plaintiff doesn't agree to rule it out. I also ask the House not to rule out this bill. And on behalf of the SPD, I can promise that if a law-maker doesn't agree to have his law ruled out, then we'll also vote in favour of that, so he doesn't. I think that's the way it should be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Maybe explaining that there's no need for misinformation. It is true that there are a lot of up-to-date topics that we discussed on the Gremium, and a lot of new points, and it was only in the end that we discussed very quickly and it was concluded that all the written proposals for elimination, as they came from the committee chairmen, and we agree with all of them. We have here a written request from the Vice-President of the Committee, Karel Rais, signed on behalf of Mrs Hyťhová, who proposes to disable this press as the press has not been closed by the committee. And so we are within this package - no one opposed to grémia. Well, that's just for explaining. I hereby register your request that we vote this part of the proposal separately. [[Members of the SPD disagree.]] Again, you all had it in writing before the Grememia on the table in front of you. Now, Prime Minister Chvojka with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr President. I'm not gonna want to put a point in it, or I'm not gonna take a point out of it. I'm just gonna have to ask for a move, or a shift, one point higher than it is. This item is please the draft act on replacement maintenance, press number 898. I would like to move or move up within that block of second reading, second reading of the Act on Emergency Oil Stocks. This means for the Act on Emergency Oil Stocks before the amendment to the Law of Gardening, as we have compared it within the table and as it went from Gremium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. At this point, it is all from the priority rights, and I was the first to have Mr Kopřiva's written application for a draft agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. To date, it has been two years, three months and three days since we have presented the House Press 201 with dozens of other translators, it is a change to the Civil Code. I ask for his firm inclusion for tomorrow after further fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u17	Thank you and other written application for the agenda of Mrs Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a proposal for the inclusion of points 240, 241 and 242, House prints 766, 774 and 753. These are proposals of representatives of the Pardubice Region, the Zlín Region and the Liberec Region for the publication of the Act on budgetary determination... amending Act 243 on budgetary determination of taxes. All these three proposals are essentially identical and the first reading has already been made, which has not been completed due to lack of time. [[14.40 hours]] Furthermore, following these points, we propose that paragraphs 282, 285 and 299, of the House prints 930, 939 and 959 be included for these points. The House press 930 is a proposal of the Liberec Region's representative to issue a law to mitigate the impact of the decline in the tax revenues of the regions in 2020 etc. The same is true of the House's press 939, which is the proposal of the representativeship of the capital city of Prague. And House printing 959 is the Senate bill on special measures mitigating the effects of Act No. 159 on compensation bonus. We propose that these points go together as I mentioned them, either to be included on Wednesday - I know that it is the third reading - from 11:00 p.m., or as a variant for the afternoon as the first to sixth point at 2:30 p.m. What reasons lead us to include these laws? The first is that the government failed to match the compensatory bonus, or income losses to the regions, although it did so for the municipalities. We know that if you are watching TV debates from the regions, it is possible to record an alarming state of finance, especially the financing of health and social services. Also, we have already noticed in a number of regions of the blackout in terms of transport services, when carriers will demand surcharges for jamming connections, and they are not small amounts, they are not tens of millions, they are climbing up to billions. For this reason, we want the three prints relating to compensation for income losses to be included. It is a quick solution that will facilitate the financing of the very important areas such as health, social services and transport services. We also know, of course, that the government argued, and a number of coalition Members, that the regions will get money for communication, which is true, of course, but it is a recurring phenomenon when the government always sends money to the regions on the roads of the second and third classes after hard negotiations with the regions. It is unsystemic, for this reason, that the regions will learn about what the amount will be, quite late, and then it is very difficult to spend this money and, of course, to make such quick construction or repair of the communications of the second and third classes quality. That is why we are proposing these House prints which change the budgetary determination of taxes, so that the regions receive funding for communication. There would be an increase of CZK 9 billion from road taxes and excise duties on mineral oils. And, of course, there would finally be criteria, such as the length of roads and the number of inhabitants. In view of the difficult situation we have today, I beg you to support both proposals. The first ones concerning the budgetary determination of regional tax have already been discussed, the first reading has not been completed, and the other three concern quick solutions and compensation for the outages from the compensatory bonus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madame. On the agenda now, Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We're gathered for the House's election meeting. There's a grandma's summer outside, it's over 30 degrees, the Minister of Health has gone into a clever quarantine, and we're talking about a meeting program. I would like to ask you to include a point, number 243, House press 754, which concerns pensions. Reason. General first. Of course, I don't have the age to preach to you here, but I often see here that you vote for things you don't agree with yourself. We have a lot of European guidelines here, weapons, GDPR. You're sewn up in those benches, but in the end, for some reason, you're voting differently than you want. We also have a lot of populism here. One of them concerns our pensioners. It's before the election, so someone's proposing to give each and every three drapes, someone's suggesting six, as I saw on TV, and in my opinion, I have this dream that the House should act conceptually and deal with things systemically. We think, as a trikolóra, that our pensioners deserve more than one-time charity before the election, which is why we proposed a law about six months ago, that's the one I propose to include. The advantage of this law is that it is a long-term and conceptual thing, it is genuine support for pensioners, and the second advantage is that it promotes intergenerational family solidarity. You know as well as I do that state finances are down, so it's a matter of year two, and we're not going to have anything better than intergenerational solidarity here in this republic. And we suggested that every person who works could send one percent of their gross wages instead of the state to their mommy, daddy, grandma or grandpa. It is a tax reduction, because labor taxes are one of the highest in the world in the Czech Republic, it is pension support and it is a step in the right direction. So I'm asking you to include this point that I just mentioned here today after discussing the compensation of the victims in 1969. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Next on the agenda of the meeting of Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon and allow me, on the basis of a proposal from the Gremia, to discuss the State Final Account for 2019 on 1 October, to propose a firm inclusion of paragraph 478, which is a proposal for a timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft State Final Account for 2019, firmly for this Thursday at 11.00. I am of the opinion that this is basically a single vote, and if we want to discuss the state final account on 1 October, it is a prerequisite that we have previously approved the negotiating timetable. So I'm begging you to support the firm inclusion of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Please, I have the floor, Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have two suggestions for today's meeting. Firstly, I propose the transfer of paragraph 13, which is the second reading of the Czech National Bank Act, which is a law that is not actually very up to date at the moment, because it actually tightens the mortgage rules that the government has tried to slow down property prices, but has already reduced the criteria in its recommendation, so that law is not really necessary at this time. Moreover, we have approved a short-term amendment valid until the end of next year, so there really is no time to discuss it. So I suggest we move this point, i.e. point 13, to the end of the second reading block. [[14.50 hours]] Furthermore, I propose to firmly include point 36, which is the Government's proposal for a law on pedagogical workers, which is in fact a very important and useful standard which allows professionals from practice to teach in secondary schools to include this proposal as the first item of the afternoon agenda of the meeting on 30 September on Wednesday. It's point 36. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. There's more of these suggestions. It's probably kind of a popular time. We'll deal with the vote that passes, which doesn't. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. President Stanjura was the fastest at the moment, then Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. First, perhaps a brief remark for President Faltýnek by your means, Mr President. We have an extremely confident defense minister. President Faltýnek suggested on the grémia, the rest of us agreed to put two points firmly on Thursday this week, the other one of which is a big mission - at least that's what colleagues from the Defence Committee call it. We're acting in half the format. I don't know if we're gonna be 102, 103 or 104 if everyone comes on Thursday. A rhetorical question for President Faltýnek by your means, Mr President. How many votes do you need to approve large missions? [[Member of the Faltynek off microphone: One hundred and one]] One hundred and one. The extremely self-confident Secretary of Defense. I wonder how the House will deal with this on Thursday. It's just to the edge. We're gonna do it tonight and we're gonna take it out next week... Mr President Vondráček, I propose that we vote on this point separately from the proposal for a grémia. Because, unlike some parties, one of whom holds this government coalition, we support foreign missions, and I believe that we would sink those missions in this number instead of approving them and making a clear, readable foreign policy for our allies. So for these reasons, I propose that we vote separately on this proposal, and we, as citizens' democrats, will not support this proposal, because the Minister has probably forgotten either that he needs 101 votes or that we have forgotten that we are acting in half the format. Well, that was just to the edge. But I have signed up to propose that I place firmly on the agenda today after the already fixed points - if memory does not deceive me, so far we have two points in this mess, we have a historical record, colleagues, 494 points, such chaos in the House has never been, I congratulate the government majority - so that as a third point today we firmly place item 290 - I have seen the rapporteur here today, Mr Sklenák is the rapporteur. It is our proposal for the waiver of insurance premiums under § 90 para. 2, and immediately thereafter, as the fourth fixed point today, paragraph 292, House press 948, before that was paragraph 947. The House's printing 948 is an adjustment to insurance premiums - again approved under § 90 para. 2. Anyone who remembers the unapproved emergency meeting program from last week will undoubtedly remember that it was points 1 and 2 of the unapproved program. The President of the Czech Social Democratic Party was wrong, who called it an election show of the opposition. I've already said it today at the Grémia or the press conference, I don't know that we're used to having some insult from the government minister. We can bear it - if the law or those two laws were not to apply 1.5 million citizens of the Czech Republic who are currently going to work and paying taxes. I don't think they deserve the Home Secretary to say it's an election show. The first point concerns the program, the name is from the workshop of Minister Maláčová, Antivirus C. As many of us know, maybe all of us, we have three programs A, B, C and A, B have the advantage of being just a government regulation, i.e. Government decision. It's much more operational. The Antivirus C is from Parliament's decision as a whole, the lower and upper chambers. Anyone who remembers discussing this bill will surely be right that we did not agree in the parameters of this bill. On our part, various proposals were made to extend the range of supported companies, etc., but we took as a fact the parameters approved by Parliament as a whole. Our proposal does not go back to discussing the parameters of this bill, only and only - but in quotation marks only and only - extends the period for which it applies. So we're actually proposing an extension or amendment to a government bill in the parameters that the government majority has passed by those four months. The Chamber of Deputies set up its resolution called "The House of Deputies." COVID to the committee, I won't repeat the long name, I'd only be speaking for two minutes the name of the committee. And we have turned to individual ministries, health insurance companies, Czech National Bank, Czech Social Security Administration and other institutions so that we can have facts, data and numbers and we can evaluate the effectiveness of one or another, whether by law or government measure. I have to thank my colleagues on the committee. We've sat twice so far. I think that if there was an unbiased observer who didn't know which of the MPs was a member of the government majority and who was a member of the opposition minority, he wouldn't have seen it coming. It's always easier when you have numbers, data and facts, and you have a specific and detailed debate over them than such impressions - I've heard, I've read, it's excellent, or it's completely useless. And by the way, not by the way, we went through the big numbers method. A few months ago, the Ministry of Finance introduced a new newspaper in Excel called covidový's aid in the Excel ensemble publishing state budget results for each month. I said months ago, so it was the third time. And we wrote down the biggest items, and we focused on them in the front line, and we were the first to evaluate them. By the time I get to Antivirus, perhaps also on the proposal put forward by Mrs Kovářová and Mrs STAN in terms of compensation for the regions. The Minister stated in the media that the compensation was good for the municipalities, that they received more compensation than their losses were claimed to be from the dependent activity due to the compensation bonuses for the CFI and S. r. o. Madam Secretary is right about that. However, the mistake was that we believed the Ministry of Finance numbers that presented the bills. Who else should have a qualified guess? So for the first bonus period, the Ministry of Finance estimated the costs for the state budget, i.e. for the regions and municipalities, of 16 billion, of 14 billion and of 15 billion respectively, which is 45 billion. If we say, under the Tax Budget Act, that about 35 percent of the government's budgets end, 35 percent of the 45 billion is higher than the compensation for cities and municipalities. It turns out that every other law was more and more wrong by the Ministry of Finance. In the first bonus period, estimated 16 billion, performance 13.1. Estimation completed at 82 per cent. In the second bonus period estimated costs 14, actual approximately 7 - 50 %. [[15.00 hours]] Let us remember how many times we have tried in vain to get help from the opposition parties before the government adopted it. And the results clearly show that the old Czech saying applies: who gives quickly, twice gives. And it went very slowly for the little s. r. o. Estimated cost of 15 billion - Ministry of Finance figure, actual performance 1.7 billion. 11,3 %. And we can speculate if it wasn't intent. Or incompetence? I don't know. I find the error rate enormous here. 11,3 %. That means the Treasury was wrong by almost 90 percent. This means a bill that we compensated for this blackout for cities and municipalities, based on these numbers and was correct. The estimates were wrong. Our commission appreciated these programs as functional, not bureaucratic, and should only a segment of the economy be shut down again, it recommends that they be reactivated for those who would be affected by such a decision. This means that you can clearly see from this resolution that it was not an attempt to find critical words at all costs. On the contrary, the programs were evaluated positively with the little exception that for the small s. r. o. it was late. It's not the final account for the negotiator yet, but the result will be equally trivial. I think it's going to be a lot lower than the Treasury estimated. At the same time, this committee, our committee, appreciated the amendment adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, which allowed us to submit this request by ordinary e-mail. Almost 60 percent of the taxpayers took advantage of this option. I'm saying this so that after we place those two points to show how the government planned spending, and in this case correctly, virtually. For the right purpose, our commission unanimously agreed on this, and yet the money remained there. Then we evaluated the programs Antivirus A, B, C. Data we had at the end of August. Unfortunately, we only had data for Antivirus C in June, but I understand that, there's no criticism. Moreover, we assume that these numbers will be very similar in months, and I assume that we will keep asking the Ministry to update the data, but we will not be wrong. In a detailed debate, we recommended that regime A, which means Antivirus A, should continue until the end of this year. Simplifyly, this is a program that helps employers who have to close down for hygiene reasons, possibly have their employees in quarantine, and receive up to 80 percent of their supergross wages with a limit of 39,000 per month. When we look at the performance in individual months, the program works as expected, i.e. 1.9 billion in March, 2.9 billion in April - it was actually shut down the economy for a whole month - 1.2 billion in May. And then, when the economy opened, of course, it dropped, 103 million in June and less than 48 million in August. This means that, by opening up the economy, the measures have become targeted, concrete, not very costly. The Commission therefore recommended that this programme continue until the end of the year. And in this, it is consistent with the government, which decided so even before our recommendation. But we tried to discuss it and discuss it honestly, and it's like we're making the decisions ourselves. Much more skeptical is our COVID commission on Antivirus B. We adopted a resolution that this programme was effective and needed, especially in March to May, and we did not recommend, unlike the government, that this programme continue after 1 September. Unfortunately, the government extended it. Antivirus B helps those employers who don't find jobs for their employees. The employees are at home, taking wages. And 60 percent of the supergross wages are paid by other taxpayers who go to work. I quote, those months of March, April, May, maybe even June, were quite understandable. If I read you the numbers, you'll see how it worked. About 1.5 billion in March, 4.4 billion in April, 2.7 billion in May, less than 2 billion in June and 900 million in July. That means, even after five months of shutting down the economy, this program worked in August. The sixth month runs in September. I think the government decided by the end of October, so seven months. Try to answer for yourself the question of how likely it is to really restore this job if it hasn't actually worked for so long. If you were also interested in the number of companies, for example in Antivirus B in July it was 4,300 companies that asked for at least one employee, in June it was 7,800. And now I'm getting to Antivirus C, which is the House Press 290, which used almost 101,000 companies in June. 101,000 companies. Maybe 101 of us are here today. So imagine that each of you is worth a thousand owners of a small company. A thousand company owners who have found jobs that have maintained jobs and who pay wages to their employees. A thousand for each of us. Imagine the line before you refuse to debate the law again. What would you give in the campaign if a thousand people came to you for each of you? Multiply it by the number of members of your club. What would you give if 78,000 people came to you? These 100,000 companies drew this support on almost 800,000 employees. Each of you has 8,000 people to help. And it's 18.5% of a super gross wage. So those who work, those companies that have found work, didn't lay off and pay wages, we support 18.5%, and many of you don't even want to discuss helping them for the next four months. And those who are at home, the same government majority, or government parties, to be exact, because it's not a matter of the House, they get 60 percent of the super gross wage, and here the next few months have longed. Do you lack logic in that? Like me? I don't have logic in it. Who should we support? Those who find work and pay wages? Or the other ones? In March, April, in May, everyone deserved the help. Today, I think we should really target the 18.5 percent supergross wages, because it actually actually saves the costs for small companies. They can pay wages, they can order services and goods, they can pay their suppliers, and thus fight with secondary insolvency. [[15.10 hours]] Yes, the costs were around 4.1 billion in June I suppose the same costs would be in the coming months, we don't have more precise numbers. We are talking about about 16,5 billion savings, which, in a simple way, would automatically, without applications, have been given to these small companies without bureaucracy. These are the companies that make up the backbone of our economy. These are companies that will not look for tax holidays in other countries. These are companies that will not move their business outside the Czech Republic. And they're companies that pay taxes, social and health insurance in the long run. I do not understand the position of the government in this case, and I recommend to the House that we at least discuss it. Okay, vote against, look at each of you 8,000 employees in a row and say I can't help you. You have every right to be. Why are we in such a hurry? Not to be an election meeting, but because October 1st, which is 16 days from now, will start counting wages for September. If we were to approve today, it will certainly meet in time at the upper chamber, and we will certainly be able to help these companies to continue this effective assistance by the end of the year. Simple math, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs. A hundred thousand companies, if each of them, and I don't want it, she fired one of her employees, it's not a mass layoffs, it's not closing companies, it's not the collapse of companies, I just don't have so many contracts, I have a high levy, so unfortunately I have to get rid of one, so there are 100,000 new unemployed. Against that, we have a yeti named cursarbeit. He's been talked about for months, he's been discussed in more detail for weeks, every other day one of her colleagues, Minister Maláčová, says and writes on Twitter: today it's coming, today we'll agree - and still nothing. I must commend Secretary Maláčová. So far, she was the only one in the government camp who discussed the parameters of this law with us, the Civil Democrats. We didn't agree on all the parameters, but I appreciate the debate going on, and I assume it will continue. But it's very difficult to have a debate when we don't know what a government proposal will look like. This is not entirely responsible, because the parameters are quite wide and we will see what the government will finally agree on and what proposal will go to the Chamber of Deputies. I think the realistic term, if all of us, as well as fellow senators in the upper chamber, is January 1st next year. I have heard that the Government would like to present this proposal in a state of legislative emergency. I hope the government doesn't even think about it. You've been preparing it for months, you've been debating it for weeks, you can't find a match at several government meetings - I'm not criticizing it, he's just describing the facts - and then you want to throw it to us on Monday to approve it on Tuesday with the fact that there's no time left and you'd like it from November 1st. It's not our fault the bill isn't here yet. And I think if we look at it honestly, we agree that such a proposal cannot be written from opposition benches to be functional and quality. Yes, we can have a debate on parameters from the opposition benches. I've told the secretary several times that we support the principle, but it's supposed to be a cursarbeit, not as Mojmír Hampl, former vice governor says, it's not my idea, but I love that it can't be Keine Arbeit and pay. And there's a dog buried in it, or there might be a dog buried in it. So I would ask the government to present the bill to the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible. We will do everything we can to discuss it in the lower and upper chambers by the end of the year, but please forget that it would be in a state of legislative emergency. It wouldn't be fair to us who aren't part of a government coalition. If you listened to me well and think about the figures no matter what party jersey you're sitting in, and you look at it as well as the members of the COVID Commission, where we all agreed, I honestly say that the representatives of the Czech Party of Social Democratic and SPD representatives, or the former member of the SPD club, were properly excused, there I logically assume a change in composition because they nominate individual clubs, but all the other seven members of the committee agreed that it was appropriate and useful for our small companies to extend this assistance until the end of the year. So that's the first bill we've made. I remind you, it's an amendment to the government bill, it's just extending the deadline, it doesn't change anything else. The second bill is a proposal to extend the period when a minimum advance on social insurance is forgiven to self-employed persons. Again, I recall that it was a government bill that applied for six months - March to August. The COVID Commission noted that this bill was fully functional, non-bureaucratic, and really helped our businessmen. From the data we got from - if anyone doesn't care, I'd like to... [[Restlessness in the ranks of members of the YES.]] Thank you. From the data we received from the director of the Czech Social Security Administration, this bill concerns about 696 thousand CFIs, which are obliged to pay social insurance. I'm sorry, I rounded it up to 700,000 Non-Byrocratics, the social administration is doing it automatically, it's really helping. Yes, there are those who pay, pay above the limit, it's their decision, and it's okay. The estimated costs, if we come out of the way it was in March to August, are estimated to be about 2.3 billion a month, which means 9.2 billion in four months. Again, it is a chance that these 700 thousand entrepreneurs who are obliged to pay social security will not close their business and will not possibly go to the employment office. It's $25.5 billion in total. It's not small money, I'm saying, it's no change. But it would be effectively spent money on state aid to Czech economic operators, because in the vast majority they are Czech economic entities - both small companies up to 50 employees and self-employed people. At some point in March, when we were debating on Czech television, the Minister of Finance came out with the gigantic number of 1.2 trillion help to the Czech economy. In an immediate reaction, I called it fantasy-magorical numbers. Look at the implementation of the state budget at the end of August, how those government promises are being fulfilled in six months, how far it is to the announced aid of 1.2 trillion. It doesn't even drip anymore, the help. We're in a difficult time. The numbers of infected people are growing, the numbers are growing in quarantine, and this, of course, threatens the economic performance of both businessmen and small firms. The smaller the company, the more dependent on one particular employee. When you drop two in a company that has a thousand people, it's not pleasant, but what it is when you drop two in a company that has ten employees - suddenly you have a 20 percent blackout. If we approve those two bills, we'll help the Treasury Secretary get a little closer to that fantasy-magorical number of $1.2 trillion. If we look at the other bills, I'll mention at least two that we've discussed on the committee so far. [[15.20 hours]] Let us remember a rather excited debate, I think it was the first or second meeting in a legislative emergency, when we had about 18 bills, and it was about the possibility to postpone rent. One law on housing leases for citizens, for tenants, and the other proposal for a bill of deferment for business entities, commercial rents. Madam Secretary Dostálová - unfortunately absent, otherwise I would have said it directly - really missed. Do you know how many citizens have asked under the Act for the possibility of deferment of rent, this possibility, and how many of them have been approved? Fifty-seven. Fifty-seven citizens have asked! Look at those stews, especially colleagues from the left side of the political spectrum, how you've been hoiling here, how you'll protect tens of thousands of tenants! As you promised, additional legislation would come, for example, to adjust the housing supplement. I think it was Mrs Valachová, to be specific: Of course, we are aware of this, it is a problem, but in the coming days we will put forward, approve, there will be no problem. Well the problem isn't really: 57 applications, 47 approved, ten denied. So, my dear colleagues, in a state of legislative emergency somewhere between the second and third morning, we have approved an extremely important bill that has been used by 47 people in six months, which is a simple calculation of less than ten a month. When we asked the Minister of Industry and Trade, who was just as keen to postpone commercial rent, do you know what the MIT wrote? We don't know. We don't know anything. We don't know. We have the law, but we don't know if anyone used it or not. That's even worse than the 57. Was it a thousand companies? Two thousand? Ten thousand? Three companies, five companies, no one? When we performed here and appealed to you to leave it to the owners and tenants, whether the apartments or the non-residential space, no, most Members wanted to be smarter than the owner and its tenants, and they wanted to adopt the law, and they accepted it. The result is ruthless. Only then will we focus on the programs that the Minister of Industry so bombastically introduced: Covid I, Covid II, Covid III, Covid EGAP, Covid Praha. The only thing that works is the EGAP program. All the others aren't successful. The Minister wonders: Why aren't they successful? Why don't they borrow the companies? We'll guarantee it. But the answer is simple, why companies do not borrow. Because they know they're gonna have to give it back. Unlike the state. It's nice to have somebody guarantee it, no doubt it'll help them theoretically, but practically, if they can't see how they're gonna make that money in three years, they're not going for the loans. - 1.2 trillion. We'll be back to that for a long time, Madam Secretary of Finance. You promised us 1.2 trillion, the deed escaped. Last week, I'm afraid today, I'm hearing opinions from the government camp: well, the $25 billion for businessmen and small businesses, that's too much. That's too much. I agree it's a lot. It's not enough, I'll remind you. I don't want to question the debate. But it was you who approved the astronomical deficit of 500 billion. At least this is effectively used money for the benefit of small Czech entrepreneurs. I firmly believe that you will put this on the agenda, that at least you will have the courage to vote on it, even if we can't convince you of the arguments. There's nothing worse and more cowardly than leaving it under the table and then sometime next year say, "Yeah, the ODS proposal, but that's from last year! Even if we did approve, it doesn't matter, so we won't discuss it at all. - That would be a shame. Pick up the courage, line it up after the fixed points today! Let us measure the strength of our arguments and not be afraid to vote on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, Mr. Kaňkovský, came forward last. It's true that I didn't look at the time reading, so I'll allow you to perform. It's probably been over 30 minutes since the program started, but I'll allow you to perform. I ask only, I appeal to the others: we have a resolution from the House that only 30 minutes after the beginning can be applied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, I wasn't watching time either. Mr President, Members of the Government, fellow Members, fellow Members, let me ask you to place item 275 firmly on the proposed agenda. This is the House Press 896, which is the parliamentary amendment to the Act on granting benefits to persons with disabilities. I propose three variants of his inclusion, namely 29 September at 18 o'clock, or Wednesday 30 September afternoon after already firmly placed points, or then firmly at 18 o'clock. I was talking about this proposal here last week, when we proposed it in several drafts of laws which we think need to be discussed in this so-called. Covido time, but I'll give you a brief introduction. It is an amendment that this time brings no new benefits to disabled people, but it should make life a little easier for them, which is not completely simple in terms of their fate. I will also repeat that I am convinced by the KDU-ČSL that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not paid much attention to the issue of disabled people in at least the last two years. I don't know if it's for the social democracy that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is running, too little of a sexy voter group, but I remind you that people with disabilities are in the Czech Republic - statistics vary a little bit depending on how we take the severe disability, but close to the limit of one million. So, in my opinion, it's a rather important group of citizens, even in terms of voters. But I don't think of it as a voter group at the moment, but I think of it as a group of people who have problems in the era of covid. And I think the government shouldn't forget them. The novel that we propose is nothing of the world, something that would break down the halls, but it is that even in the time of the covido, some disabled people will pass the term of validity of the ZTP or TP or ZPT/P. Unfortunately, there are still practices that even those who have a serious disability of a permanent nature, which means that their health can no longer improve, are invited to new health examinations before medical evaluation. And we believe that this is particularly bothering for them at the time of the covidal infection, and of course most of the time they don't go alone, a family member has to go with them. But we believe that this is wrong even in non-covoid times. That the necessary medical examinations for people who are already quite punished by their fate, or as we would call it, were not entirely favourable to them, that it was unnecessary. And it's useless for a few reasons: it's a waste of time for these people, even emotionally, because they think of each tour as a kind of bullying. Especially if their disability is difficult. It is a burden on the health system because the medical assessment service always requires the opinion of a medical professional. And it's a burden to the medical review service that we know we have in ruins, and we're very hard to find ways to replace elderly doctors with medical opinion services. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. In terms of time of discussion, this should not be a long debate. And I just repeat the terms: 29 September at 18 o'clock, or Wednesday 30 September afternoon after already fixed points, or the same day at 18 o'clock. Thank you for your attention and for your support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. We've dealt with all the proposals to change the agenda here. With priority rights, President Faltýnek wants to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only react briefly to the performance of my colleague Stanjura. It is true that I have proposed to the Gremium, and I have obtained the majority support for this, the inclusion of the two points by Minister Metnar. At that point, I didn't know 101 votes were needed. So I'm going to join this proposal to vote it out separately and take out these two points because they both need 101 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u31	We're not gonna take them out, we're not just gonna put them in tight. Am I getting this right? With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kalousek? Well, I've already gotten the hang of it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. I just want to make sure. If they are not assigned by common will those points by Minister Metnar, does that mean that the point about living culture begins at 11 o'clock?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u33	Yes. And we have one more proposal for a budget schedule. So this point is the first one at this point, and then it's going to be put in motion for 11 o'clock. That means the schedule would go first, and then there would be a living culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u34	I agree with that, of course. The timetable is a technical matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u35	That's all there is to the agenda. Here, we are ready and absolved. So, first of all, we would deal with the proposal by grémia that we will vote in particular on the proposal for the elimination of points 48 and 390, because there were demands that this press should not be eliminated and that it has not been discussed sufficiently on the grémia. And then there's the request that we take paragraphs 447 and 459, which are those military missions, also vote separately. This means that we are now voting first on all the proposals submitted by the Grémium, with the exception of these two cases. Three in total. We're gonna have three votes on grémium. Now everything except press 652 and missions. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number two, 101 Members registered, 99 against no one. This proposal was adopted. We will therefore now vote on the proposal for the elimination of points 48 and 390, which is the House Press 652, second and third reading. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 3 vote is 101, for 28, against 16. This proposal was not adopted. And then there's the proposal to place points 447, 459 - military missions on Thursday. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 4 is 101, for 16, against 24. This proposal was not accepted either. We are coming to the proposals by President Pekarová Adamová, who first proposes the inclusion of a new point, so first we will vote on the inclusion of a new point, the current situation of the development of the CoV-19 epidemic in the Czech Republic. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Voting number 5, registered is 102, versus 44. [[Right for 44, 1 against.]] The motion was not accepted. The President also proposed a point, I will use it in writing - Decree No. 27/2016 Coll., on the education of pupils with special educational needs. Is that good? Madam President is not. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 6 registered 101, for 33, against 10. The motion was not accepted. Thus, neither of us dealt with solid inclusion. There is now a proposal by President Jurečka - the inclusion of a new item Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the negative development of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in the Czech Republic. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? In vote number seven, 102 is registered, for 44, against no one. [[One!]] The motion was not accepted. Sorry, against one. In addition, there is the proposal by Vice-President Filip to include 30 as the first to third points. 9. paragraphs 189, 188, 187 - prints 508, 526 and 549. These are prints whose content is the constitutional anchoring of water protection. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 8 vote is 101, for 39, against no one. The motion was not accepted. In the alternative, the Vice-President also requested that this be included as a 2, 3 and 4 point in the middle after a fixed point from the Gremia. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number nine, 102 Members are registered, for 40, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is the motion by President Michálek to include a new item Checking the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies 1162 of 4 June 2020. These are government measures in the area of combating pandemics. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? In vote number 10 registered 102, for 48, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will no longer vote for a firm classification. President Chvojka proposed paragraph 27, House Press 898, a substitute maintenance, to move in the block of second reading, for point 11, oil supplies, thus becoming a new point 12, and the law of gardening would become point 13. That means between oil supplies and gardeners. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 11 vote is 102, for 56, against 3. This proposal was adopted. Mr Kopřiva's proposal to include paragraph 120, press 201, the amendment to the Civil Code, tomorrow after the fixed points for the afternoon - afternoon negotiations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 12 registered 102, for 20, against 19. The motion was not accepted. [[15.40 hours]] Mrs Kovářová proposed paragraphs 240, 241 and 242, which are prints 766, 774 and 753 relating to the budgetary determination of taxes, and paragraphs 282, 285, 299, prints 930, 939 and 959 concerning the mitigation of the effects on the decline in the income of the regions, to include the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth ones. First of all, the first proposal was made on Wednesday 16. 9. from 11.00 - firmly place. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 13, registered is 102, for 48, against no one. This proposal was not adopted. The alternative, then, is to add these points again in a row, the six points... There's an application for a check-out, which I just granted. Please sign up again. The number appears to be stable, 96. I'll repeat. The same points - the budgetary determination of taxes and the mitigation of the effects on the decline in the income of the regions - to include, in turn, these six points, on Wednesday 16. 9:00 p.m., 2:30 p.m. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 14, now logged in 100, for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Klaus proposed to include paragraph 243, press 754, today as the first item. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered is 101, for 10, versus 1. This proposal has not been adopted. Mrs Vostrá proposed paragraph 478, this is a timetable for the state budget, to include it 17. 9:00 p.m. - tight. Mr. Feri, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor. It's just for the vote. I voted in favour of voting number 14 because I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. I'll fix myself. Time schedule of the State Final Account, not the State Budget 2019. So, we can - Mrs Vostrá's proposal. Initiating vote - paragraph 478 and its firm inclusion. Who's against it? Voting number 16, registered is 101, for 100, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Ferjenčík proposes the transfer of point 13 to the end of the second reading block. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. This is a press concerning the Czech National Bank. Who's against it? Voting number 17, registered 101, for 35, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Ferjenčík also proposes point 36 - Amendment to the Law on Educational Workers - to include as the first point in the afternoon on 30. 9. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered is 101, for 37, versus 4. [[The motion was not accepted.]] President Stanjura proposes to include two points, but we will vote, I presume, on each individually. First, point 290 - waiver of premiums - today after fixed points. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. It is a print submitted under the scheme § 90. Who's against it? Voting number 19, registered is 101, for 44, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal to place point 291 firmly - the adjustment of insurance premiums - after the fixed points today. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 20, 100 Members signed in, for 49, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kaňkovský's proposal to include paragraph 275, press 896, amending the Law on the provision of benefits to disabled persons - the first one was the proposal 29. 9:00 p.m. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered is 100, for 48, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kaňkovský's second proposal was to include this point 275 on 30. 9 pm after fixed points. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 22, registered 99, for 47, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Finally, Mr Kaňkovský proposed to include this point 275. 30. 9:00 p.m. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 23, registered 100, for 48, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We've dealt with all the suggestions. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u38	Thank you. Mr President, my dear colleagues, I must say that I am surprised, given the situation of the last few days, last week breaking records in the number of infected in the Czech Republic - I am very fair last week at that extraordinary meeting that was convened, and he said that I did not want to take advantage of it last Thursday and that I am asking the fair, decent government to prepare here today for information on what further steps will be made strategically so that citizens, companies, society know what can wait for us in the coming days and weeks. I must say that it is a great disappointment for me when the three proposals made by Members here - whether from Markéta Pekarová Adamová, from me, by fellow Pirates - have tried to include the government's information on this matter at this meeting, there are numbers of infected people that are more than twice as high as in March and April, and you will take it off the table. [[15.50 hours]] I know that today, the Prime Minister has challenged us to be positive, and that we should, like, fight the ludicrous, like, Cimrmanian. But all we have to do is turn to my opponents, and even now, in the next few days, call an extraordinary meeting of the House to this point. Here's what you say - of course. But if you're able to explain to your colleagues in the regions, citizens, entrepreneurs that the situation is okay, optimistic that we have nothing to worry about, then I can't explain it to our constituents. At a time when the numbers were substantially lower, the whole area of Litovelska and Uničovska closed down and presented it as a necessary measure that affected several thousand people. In the situation we're in right now, the Prime Minister is actually saying that nothing is going on. All we want is for the government to introduce what systemic steps are being prepared. So unfortunately, we have to go this way, even if we're trying to make a fair move so it doesn't have to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Jurečka said a lot of things for me. However, I dare to turn not only to representatives of opposition parties, but at least to the smaller coalition party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a situation that cannot be put to rest. A situation that is simply ahead of us, whether we wish it or not. And by lying about it every day and hiding data from the public, we really can't do anything. I would still understand that you do not want to discuss this with us, provided that the government can act as an energetic credible body that controls the system. But that's clearly not the case. The data that is absolutely necessary for the competent and project management of such a problem, you even keep from each other in the coalition. And what comes out of that government is chaos, confusion, untrustworthyness and lies. Today, the Prime Minister lied about the fact that no one tests the way we do. That's a lie, please! We are in testing, say, in the European Union, if I am euphemistic, very mediocre. There are countries that test much more. Last week, he lied about how the hygiene is going and how he doesn't need any help. [[With emphasis:]] We all know that's a lie! We all know that the tracking capacities that were supposed to be prepared are simply not ready and that there are many, many managerial errors. And this meeting, this point at the meeting wasn't supposed to be primarily used to say that it was him or him, but to try to set up normal control mechanisms, this is what we're at risk of based on these data, so we have to be able to, let me give an example, scare 8,000 people a day. Do we have the capacity to scare 8,000 people a day? Don't take my word for it in that number. Based on the data, we need to figure out how much we need to be able to track down and test people every day. Do we have the capacity? No, we don't have the capacity. As far as I know, hygiene has about a quarter of them. Do we need to strengthen them? How do we strengthen them? We've offered a lot of help in this thing. But all you want to do is lie, cheat, and I'm warning you, this isn't the way to the finish line, just because you've wasted not only your expensive spring-bought time, but you've wasted the public's trust. The public can't trust the Prime Minister who's been lying to her three times a week. I think we have one last chance to agree that we will share credible data and together we will say effective proposals for solutions. If you don't understand this and you don't want to do it, then you have all the responsibility for the risks that are ahead of us and which will become a reality with the probability of an imminent certainty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Just pointing out that we will still be voting on the agenda of the meeting as a whole. Please don't go!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. I must say that I am very surprised that it has succeeded - in proposing that we take action on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies measures to deal with the bad situation with coronavirus, the ODS, Pirates, SPD, KSČM, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN, and the proposal failed because the non-inclusion of Members voted with the government. Strange. But I think the willingness to discuss such an important issue in the Chamber of Deputies is definitely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u43	So, if this is from the priority rights under Section 67, we will now vote on the approval of the 58th meeting as a whole. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 24, registered is 101, for 71, versus 1. The agenda has been approved. I thank you and we will continue to follow the approved agenda. I'm registering the Prime Minister's priority right. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u44	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin another point, I have here an application with priority rights from the Minister of Finance, Vice-President of the Government of Alena Schillerová. Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. [[The secretary is looking for glasses among her things.]] I'll try without my glasses. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, under the authority of the Prime Minister, to speak to the Government's bill on a one-off contribution to pensioners in 2020. [[There's noise in the room.]] I would like to say clearly at the outset that this is certainly not a drape or a populist move by the government. And just as in the spring of the spread of viral disease we discussed that establishments were closed to businessmen, small and large businesses, closed schools, reduced production and de facto stopped most of the services provided by the private sector, so similarly now -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u46	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you. I will ask the House for peace. I think it would be very good if we listened to each other, and if you are discussing another subject, please, in principle, in the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u47	Similarly, we now approach pensioners. Let's remember, and it was mentioned here today that, as a compensatory bonus, we paid off the self-employed over 20 billion, and no one ever heard from me that I would question that being too much. To the partners in small companies with limited liability of almost 2 billion, we added a bonus for people to the agreement to carry out work and work activities. I want to remind you that the estimates that have been questioned here have been maximistic. We've always made estimates, as if they were all asking. Of course, knowing that you never know in advance who will ask for this help, it is not logical to predict that. [[16.00 hours]] Firms have the opportunity to draw Antivirus programs, which all three together have already cost more than 26 billion crowns. In addition, self-employed persons have deferred social and health insurance advances and do not have to pay a minimum premium for six months. We have missed the June advances on personal and legal income tax, we are doing a lot of individual tax deferrals, and together, by the end of August, it was over 45 billion. As has been rightly said here, for the third time every first day of the month, the Ministry of Finance has published a statement of drawing all government aid. We have introduced a programme that compensates for the rent, specific areas of the economy such as culture and spa have their own support. Business entities benefit from preferential credit and guarantee products from the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank and Export Guarantee and Insurance Company. At the same time, parents who guarded and learned at the time of the pandemic with their children at home received an increased infirmary throughout the school closure. But let us not forget that the citizens who raised us and provided us with a home also live with us. Now they do not work because of old age, so they cannot improve their family budgets by working. The same applies to those who are disabled pensioners, and because of their disease and risk of being infected with coronavirus, they cannot work fully this year. All of these people have been rising significantly faster than the consumer price index has been growing for at least a year and a half. Yes, some of you may say that price growth will be offset in the annualisation of pensions in 2021, i.e. in full compliance with a law that reflects not only the increase in prices or the cost of living of pensioners, but also the increase in real wages, and that past price growth contained the indexation of pensions for 2020, but the valorisation for this year was only expected to increase in prices until June 2019. This year's dynamics have not been taken into account at all. Similarly, from 1 January 2021, valorisation will not take into account price growth after June 2020 when, for example, pensioners' living costs increased by almost 4 percent year on year in July and August. At the same time, as Minister of Finance, I am clearly in favour of increasing pensions next year only by legal valorisation, which will reduce fiscal pressure on the budget 2021, the valorisation is CZK 848, and at the same time it will be enough to fulfill our promise given by the government's programming declaration, an average pension of CZK 15,000. An immediate response in the form of a one-off allowance will immediately improve the standard of living of pensioners. In addition to the purchase of ordinary items or services, it will also help them to pay for certain medical services or unreplaced or only partially, aids. This will help to maintain consumption and strengthen fragile economic growth, which is one of the most important challenges for economic policy. A one-off allowance is not a pension benefit and will therefore be paid in a uniform amount to each eligible pensioner without a link to the amount of the pension. At the same time, the uniform amount of the contribution is relatively more favourable to lower-income consumers, for whom it is more difficult to adapt to price growth. For low pensions, our government proposal of CZK 5,000 for each pensioner is a relatively significant one-off sum for which it would otherwise save itself with difficulty. The form of an extraordinary one-off contribution remembers that the life situation of pensioners really improves. It is not included in the relevant household income for claims on other benefits or levies. The contribution shall also not be subject to execution because the contribution cannot be affected by the enforcement of the decision. For your information, ladies and gentlemen, we have 72,000 retirees in the execution process. In terms of debt, the Czech Republic will remain among fiscal prime ministers despite this massive aid to our economy. We entered this year with a total government debt, that is to say, government, self-government, funds, of 30.8% of GDP, which was the fourth lowest of the European Union countries. The expected debt at the end of 2020 at the level of public budgets will be 39.4%, i.e. still 5 percentage points lower than the public debt in 2013. Finally, I would like to say that, as Minister of Finance, I will do everything possible to avoid the agreed 500-billion-dollar deficit for this year. This bill certainly does not fulfil such a role. For me as Minister of Finance, the half-billion-dollar deficit is truly astronomical, justified perhaps only by an unprecedented situation this year and by a considerable amount of uncertainty in its remainder, as I advocated in this House by the third amendment to the State Budget Act. On the other hand, we must perceive and understand the different life situations and phases of life. And old age is a natural part and, as such, it carries with it objective reasons for which it must be honored. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-000-000.u48	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Now let me begin the point.
