ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u1	7. Proposal for a Law on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination /German press 451/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment and we received its resolution as a House press of 451/6. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Lumír Kantor among us. Mr. Senator, hello. And I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendment tabled. Minister, I almost took your word for it, so you have your word. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to reiterate the bill on compensation for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination, which the Senate returned to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment. The proposed bill constitutes legislation which corresponds to the long-term requirement of both professional and lay public. The aim of this bill is to address an adverse legal situation where the rule of law currently does not contain any legal title on the basis of which a person who has suffered injury as a result of compulsory vaccination could successfully obtain compensation for this injury. The draft law also provides for the right of a person close to compensation for the damage to his/her mental well-being, death or particularly serious injury to the health of his/her loved one who has undergone compulsory vaccination. The proposed bill stipulates that the State represented by the Ministry of Health will atone for the health damage resulting from the compulsory vaccination. In this process, which imposed an obligation to be vaccinated and thus contribute to building the collective immunity of the population in the Czech Republic, which is an important prerequisite for effective prevention of the spread of infectious diseases and hence the protection of public health in the Czech Republic, given that injury to health as a result of the administration of the vaccine is usually very difficult, the proposal does not always require proof of causal link. It establishes a rebuttable presumption that, if the consequences of the implementation decree occur at the time indicated, the injury will be considered as injury caused by compulsory vaccination. In other cases, the assessment of whether injury is caused by compulsory vaccination will be the subject of standard evidence, i.e. in this case a causal link will have to be established. The basic rules governing compensation for injury to health are laid down in the Civil Code, which applies to this material in a subsidiary way. The draft law in question was adopted in the third reading in the Chamber of Deputies by which the scope of compensation for damage to property and property was limited to a certain extent... to compensate for the difficulty of social application, i.e. compensation only for the permanent consequences of compulsory vaccination, including that in such a case the State would also pay the cost of care for the health of the vaccinated person, with care for his person or his household to the person who spent it. The bill was therefore passed on to the Senate in this text. As part of the discussion of this proposal on the Senate's floor, an amendment was adopted, in which the Senate returned the bill to the Chamber of Deputies. This amendment extended the scope of compensation in such a way that, in addition to the difficulty of social application, it was supplemented by suffering pain and loss of earnings when a particularly serious injury to the health of the vaccinated person was caused as a result of compulsory vaccination. This is very important. This does not mean that there will be any minor damage after vaccination, which are of course common. But it really must be a particularly serious injury and harm to the victim's health. I agree with and am prepared to support this amendment in this text referred to or returned to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u3	There. Now I ask Senator Lumír Kantor to take the floor. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u4	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I will try to explain briefly, but somehow explain the importance of our amendment. In the sitting of the Senate plenary on 29. 1. There were nine senators in the general debate, two of which, three senators, spoke twice. And the final vote was: out of 76 senators to accept the amendment, there were 72 senators, 4 senators abstained and zero opposed. The main change is, as the Minister said, that we are actually returning it in some way to the content-like form in which the government originally presented it. We therefore propose that the amendment adopted by the Chamber of Deputies should be abolished, which excluded painful and loss of profit from compensation. On the contrary, injury is defined as particularly serious. So we have therefore decided to submit a proposal to you to return it, the compensation or damages, to the format that is commonly used in every form of compensation under the Civil Code, where traditionally it is painful, the compensation for reducing social application and then the cost of health care for the injured and compensation for loss of earnings. At present we have only... or in this parliamentary version there is only compensation for the difficulty of social application and the cost of health care. We go back to painful and compensation for loss of earnings. I think that there was the fact that the arguments on compensation - temperatures or some minor complications - were actually made during the vote in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is why it has now been narrowed down in this way. That is why, at the committee's meeting, we put the possibility of abuse of compensation for minor complications by putting in a particularly serious injury. In that text it was in the second paragraph, there was a particularly serious injury, but it was not in the first paragraph that concerned these refunds. So that's where we defined it quite clearly. There is a decree by the Ministry of Health that takes into account about five diseases quite seriously, and they are actually particularly serious. From my point of view, that part of the amendment to the Chamber of Deputies got there very well, and these are the commissions. Because if there are any other serious, particularly serious complications, the committee will assess if it is not the five, about the five diseases that are there, then the committee will assess whether it is particularly serious and whether it is mainly related to vaccination. So it can't be that we ignore something or, on the contrary, that they're getting there, I'd say, simple or mild complications, and that's kind of the kind of insurance that's created to make sure that the Institute of Painful and the entire compensation isn't abused. Then I would like to mention that we actually have a situation, it is about five diseases - palsy of the arm, anaphylactic shock, encephalopathy, or brain inflammation, or brain disorder, or chronic rheumatitis. There is a problem here that some things that would be compensated according to the parliamentary version would not actually have occurred there that could be compensated for anaphylaxis. Therefore, the anaphylactic shock resulting from injection will wear off and have no consequences, permanent consequences. But of course it's a complication after the vaccination. And that can be compensated for by the painful. So I just want to stress the painful element. In my experience, because I've been writing this compensation for quite a long time, for a few decades now, I can say that the reduction in social application, or what is in the parliamentary version, represents the million dollars, could represent the million-dollar costs, because yesterday he asked how much he would actually increase by this acceptance, how much it would increase. There's no way to answer that. Only on page 12 in the government's explanatory memorandum is it said that it counts as a hundred million. But that was at a time when it wasn't actually a particularly serious definition. So that's one thing. [[18.20 hours]] The second thing is that it represents painful - and I refer not only to my experience, but also to the authorities with whom I have consulted - significantly lower value than a reduction in social application. It's like 10 to 15 percent. So an increase in the state budget, if it were to be accepted that painful and that we would acknowledge that children or adults, for example, are entitled to a painful claim, will not be of any importance. That's about all I had to say about it. I wanted to ask for support to bring this Institute of Damage Compensation into line with the Civil Code, so that we can compensate for, for example, those children who have some complication and have no lasting consequences, but a serious complication, especially serious complication, as we put it in our amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u5	Now I want to ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, wants to comment on the amendment tabled by the Senate. Yes, he does. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just quickly add that in the Senate, both the constitutionally-legal committee and the Committee on Health, which adopted the amendment, which was mentioned here, dealt with the draft law. I just want to point out to this amendment that it describes in more detail the scope of the compensation. The contents of the list are property and property damage, admitting to the injured, among other things, the painful, which is missing in the original bill. In other cases, however, painful damage is always admitted and compensated. This means, therefore, that this proposal is also brought into line with the Civil Code. As rapporteur, then, I support the Senate version and I intercede for approving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u7	I'm opening the debate. I have here a point of fact by Mr Pavel Kováčik. No, so I don't have anyone to debate. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Senator? You're not interested. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination under House press 451/5, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 451/6.' In the meantime, I've already started the gong, so we'll wait a little longer. Checkout request? If you want, don't be shy. Knock if you want. I can already hear the knocking, okay. I'll check you out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, 144 Members signed in for 142, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, Mr. Senator. Anything else you'd like to say? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u8	I'd just say a short word. Thank you. I came here about five times today, but I don't mind because it's rare company, I've come about five times, and I've always left. Now that that point, the vaccination just disappeared, and now I'm standing here, and I thought, instead, the valuation of the property is coming, I figured I wouldn't get the point -- according to one child poem, that what the point is, I'll tell you without stopping what it has to come and it doesn't come. So the point has come for me, and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-012-007.u9	Thank you for coming, Senator. [[Let's hear it.]] We will now continue the program. We've got here.
