ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u1	490. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The list of Members according to the winning order has been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to Mr Vojtěch Pikal, who was drawn first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear absent Prime Minister, I appeal to you with an interview on the appointment of President of the Office for the Protection of Competition. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that the government has finally begun to deal with the corruption caused by the current President Rafaj. I have warned you about this issue since July, last year. However, since the entire process of recalling the current President is behind closed doors, the Chamber of Deputies does not have the slightest information about the future of the leadership of one of the most important independent regulatory bodies, then in recent days there has been speculation in the media that it should be decided not only on the resignation of Petr Rafaj but also on his successor, so I am asking you whether you could illuminate the process of appeal of the President and the appointment of his successor here before all. First of all, I would like to know whether the Government has made a formal motion to dismiss President Rafaj or given him an informal opportunity to resign himself. If President Rafaj is to resign himself, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what day the government is counting on this to happen. Finally, I would like to know how the government intends to proceed in the case of the President of the Monopoly Office. In this respect, I would like to convey my view that only through open selection procedures can the public be restored to confidence in the Authority's decision-making activities. The new President should be selected on the basis of criteria of expertise, managerial skills and vision for the Authority. I would like to stress that the candidate should be a respected authority in the field of competition law. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u3	Well, thank you. The Prime Minister is excused, so he will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. The next in line is Mr Radek Holomčík, who was drawn in second place and will be prepared by Mrs Olga Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear absent Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one question concerning the current regional election campaigns. The Internet has surrounded a number of images where it turns out that some social services targeting seniors are being abused for the campaign of your movement, and materials and promotional items of individual candidates are being distributed to them through workers. Probably the most exhilarating case in Cologne, when employees of one of the services and seniors in the field service were doing so, with the coincidence that this service is run by an ANO representative. I have absolutely no objection to politicians meeting citizens, voters including seniors. On the contrary, I consider it important. But this, don't be mad at me, is just a completely unacceptable practice bordering on what scumbags are doing selling overpriced pots. And I'd like to ask you, Prime Minister, if this case, if I just put it on Kolín, is an individual failure, which just happens, or is some part of the comprehensive strategy of the YES movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u5	Thank you. The Prime Minister is excused, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to reply in writing within 30 days. As the next invitation to interpel Mrs Richterová, who will interpel Mr. Prime Minister on the issue of discount for disabled pensioners who do not have a ZTP card. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u6	Thank you for the floor. This is a topic that I regularly discuss with this government. On December 9, 2019, I also sent a written question to the Prime Minister, because this thing is not moving. And I'm wondering if after another almost a year, anything has moved, or if the answer will still be negative. The point is that by 2011, people with full disability pension were entitled to the same discounts on rail as old-age pensioners. That changed after that. The Prime Minister was breast-feeding with flat-rate discounts, but this group needed with granted disability, who - and this is important - did not have an ID card for people with disabilities and physical disabilities, did not receive assistance. That ZTP card is a barrier, an obstacle. And yet they were able to solve it in Slovakia. In Slovakia, they were able to resolve the objections mentioned in the Prime Minister's reply. Objection on the granting of identical discounts, identical claims to all EU citizens. So - and this is my question. Prime Minister, you wrote to me: We're analyzing possible solutions to eliminate problems. You wrote to me: The analysis of the state in other countries has not been prepared. You wrote to me: It is impossible to anticipate when a third-degree disability circuit can be extended. So I'd like to ask. Analysis. Do you have a solution? Do you? Did you even ask that Slovakia how it was done? I asked, I checked. I can really do it. I'm also wondering, what do you want to say to those probably tens of thousands of people who need discounts?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u7	Thank you. Thank you for keeping the time exactly. The Prime Minister shall reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now, Mrs Kovářová will interpel in the case of child groups at risk. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u8	Dear Prime Minister, in recent months, the government has tabled a proposal for a child care bill in the children's group. Children's groups complement the pre-school care system, which is not able to fully provide for the kindergarten. In some regions the kindergarten is not sufficient or, on the contrary, not established in the municipality. This is therefore an indispensable part of caring for children, when children's groups visit 16,000 children. In the Czech Republic, a network of children's groups has been built in recent years, which complements these poor capacity of preschool facilities and creates a new system of care for children from one year on, whose parents want to participate in the labour market. Now, however, they are threatened with extinction because of the uncertainty of continued funding. If the financing of children's groups were terminated, there could be an acute shortage of pre-school places in some municipalities. This would also result in a difficult return of mothers to work or part-time work. Dear Prime Minister, since we often deal with the problems of pre-school facilities, I would like to ask you about your opinion on the operation of children's groups and their functions as additional childcare opportunities from one year on for mothers or fathers who want to return to work or work part-time. And what steps will you take to ensure the financing of children's groups in the coming years? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u9	Thank you. And now you can bring your intervention to the Prime Minister on the situation in the Czech Post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u10	Thank you for the floor. In this case, I will limit myself only to stating that this is an up-to-date subject, so I firmly believe that I will have the opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister at the next questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u11	Okay, thank you. In that case, I will now call on Mrs Richterová to present her intervention on social housing, the economic evaluation of the project, and thus close this block by interpelling. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u12	Thank you for the floor. I want to ask the Prime Minister how he ensures that his government evaluates economically successful projects that have clear positive results and could bring both medium and long-term savings in the future. What exactly am I talking about? About the social housing project, when 16 municipalities were involved. It is possible to calculate exactly how many people were supported, how many households kept housing and how much it cost. I am just interested in how this end-of-the-year project, where the evaluation, as far as I know, has already taken place, is being used by the Prime Minister. The point is that it was supposed to be a pilot project, which we will then lean on, a project that will allow us to apply this linking of various authorities, municipalities, non-profit organizations comprehensively. And it is also a matter where measurable results can be easily interpreted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u13	Madam, I don't know if you're running out of time. [[He wasn't.]] He wasn't. I'm sorry, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u14	So I am interested in how the Prime Minister will work at the level of the draft budget and the medium-term objectives of our country with measurable results of the social housing project carried out at the MPSV, which is, by its very nature, multi-disciplinary, involving self-government, a number of different state authorities and, in the end, can bring large savings to the whole country in the long term. Thank you for answering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u15	Okay, thank you. That was the last of the interpelations from this block. The Prime Minister is excused, so he will reply in writing to all the interventions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that all applications for an interview with the Prime Minister have been exhausted. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I therefore call on Mr Jan Pošvář to present an interview to the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, on erosion, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u16	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the land is one of the most valuable natural riches of every state. It is an essential means of production of agriculture and forestry. Unfortunately, the soil in the Czech Republic is more than half threatened by water erosion, i.e. the most widespread type of soil degradation in the Czech Republic. In the database for monitoring the erosion of agricultural land, 276 erosion events were recorded in 2018, even 425 events in 2019. The threat status is described in detail in the final report on erosion monitoring, which is generally published in the first half of the year. However, the final report on monitoring the erosion of agricultural land for 2019 has still not been published. At the same time, new information about the anti-erosion decree, which the Ministry of Environment has been working on for ten years in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. According to the show Do not be expected to carry 17 tons of ore from each hectare per year, i.e. about 1.5 tarts of land from one football field each year. It would mean maintaining the present unhappy state. I wonder when the report on monitoring the erosion of agricultural land for 2019 will be published. Why was the final report not published almost at the end of the year? Why does the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment and the entire government want to tolerate the degradation of our land? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u17	Thank you. The Minister is excused for reasons of work, so he will respond in writing to your interview within 30 days. We will move on to another interpelation, which is a block of interpelling to Minister Prymula, who is the only one who is not excused from the interpellings, so Mr Munzar will give an interview on the case of school closure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u18	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I welcome you to your premiere of the interview. You have decided to close secondary schools for 14 days, speculating in public space as well as in second grade primary schools. Yesterday, we asked here about the specific, exact data that led you to this decision, but unfortunately, you didn't share any information with us. I would like to remind you that the closure of schools is a major intervention in the economic and private lives of the families of pupils. At the same time, education for future generations should be our priority, and the form of distance teaching certainly does not reach the quality of presentation teaching. Already years ago, pupils and students took away the coronavirus crisis and lost time when they couldn't be in school, no one would return them. All the more important is that, as far as possible, they have a presentation class today, not just the years that are preparing for graduation. Therefore, I would like to ask how many cases schools have become the focal point of the massive spread of the disease to their surroundings, that they must be closed, how many cases the disease has been transmitted during school education, and what proportion of such infections is in the total number, in how many cases is recorded the infection of a teacher from his student in the course of school education in the Czech Republic. And also especially what happens after 14 days - that means if the total number of spread R will not fall to your liking, will school closure continue? I am really asking about these exact data that will prove that our children's schools and education are the focal point and not just the victims of your measures. I ask for exact data because according to the analysis of the Centre for Modeling of Biological and Social Processes, virus proliferation will be reduced by the closure of schools at least. Besides, those students won't stay locked up at home, they'll meet up somewhere else, in business centers, theaters, stuff like that. So it's less dangerous than under the school regime to give them education? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u19	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer that he has five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u20	Mr President, Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I would like to comment on an interview concerning the closure of schools. The closure of schools is undoubtedly one of the measures that is taken into account, which, of course, together with others can contribute to improving the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic and to gaining control over the course of the epidemic. We have only agreed to the introduction of distance teaching in secondary and higher vocational schools, and in the previous measures it was also for universities, given that in this age group the highest detection of positive tests has been recorded in terms of the occurrence of activities compared to other age groups of children and pupils and that age group is characterised by social association, so it is the most risky group for further spread of the disease compared to primary school pupils. Another aspect that has been taken into account in the decision-making process is the fact that children under the age of about ten years, but according to some work and 12 years of age, are suffering from disease more often without symptoms, with the spread rate in these children significantly lower than in adolescents and adult populations. It has also been taken into account that the introduction of distance education has the least impact on the quality of the education provided, unlike those of the second stages where we are not really going to implement this measure. This measure is of transitory nature and has been said to be for 14 days. After 14 days, we want to release this and assume that we will be able to reduce the reproductive number as it was declared, that is, under 1. Lower years of multiannual grammar schools would be excluded from distance teaching, not only with regard to the age of students, but also with regard to compulsory schooling obligations. In terms of limiting physical education and singing, these activities are at risk of spreading the disease. In order to limit the necessary contacts between pupils and students, it was also intended to abolish extracurricular activities. Maybe I would have responded here to the specific questions that were falling here. We're basically in a situation when we look at primary and secondary education, so here's really the highest increase lately. We, of all the numbers, when we look at the numbers, move somewhere in the beginning, before the high school attendance of that category of secondary schools was started, somewhere at 2.1 percent. Now the ratio, that means the percentage of people who are affected, is somebody over 8 percent and further rising to 11 percent in some regions. There are regions that are severely affected. And it's not the whole republic. In some regions primary education dominates, in some regions secondary education dominates. For example, in Náchod, the situation, which is rather heated, is really thanks to secondary schools. [[14.50 hours]] As for the total numbers, when we analyzed the absolute number of infected people, it was about 2,200 for primary schools, it was 2,000 for secondary schools. So if we take it into proportion because there are significantly fewer students in high school than students in primary schools, that's why this group is coming out of it. And we really are forced to take this measure, even though we are fully aware that it is a handicap, but we are trying to do it in such a way that where practical teaching is necessary, it was left to it. That means practical instruction can take place. And as I've already sent, it's for a limited period of 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u21	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answers, although they were more general in the first part. I really wanted to know if you have any proofs, you have exact data where the disease was transmitted in the course of school education. Because that would be the reason for school closure, or the argument for school closure. I would just like to stress that yes, we must treat COVID-19 with great respect as any infectious disease. But we can't let ourselves be dominated and paralyzed by our lives. And in the fight against covid, the education of our children is sacrificed. So I wonder if this is really the only way and the only way to reduce the spread of the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u23	Thank you. The Minister may respond with a supplementary response of two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u24	The possibility of various measures is, of course, disproportionately broader. I was based on a situation where we really want to reduce the overall burden without dramatically hitting the economy. All measures are more painful. [[Different?]] Here I think it is possible to start and implement distance teaching for such a transitional period. I fully realize that the disability of this child population by denying them contact instruction is palpable. But there's no other way we can deal with this at this point. We didn't really want to go to those elementary schools. And as for the research that's been going on here, this is really where we talked to the people who prepared the research. And what was published was just part of it. Now it's being abused in the mass media that the measure doesn't really matter. But when we look at all the countries, it goes in this direction, and it goes in particular in those countries where there is a really large incidence, and it is necessary to take these steps. The percentages that have been published there are really low, but they relate only to the specific closure of the schooling, not to the other complex. And if we can't prove that these kids aren't gonna see each other anymore, that means, that's just the fact that we're gonna shut down the school and these kids are gonna meet everywhere else, they're gonna spend the afternoon together, and so on, then the impact is really low. I hope it doesn't come to that, because there's a limit in the supermarkets and the food centers, which basically means that only four people can sit at the table, there shouldn't be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u25	Thank you. And now, Mr Čižinský will interpelise on the travel of unmarried partners from third countries. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u26	Thank you. Yet I can't stand it and appeal a little about basic art schools and individual teaching, when it's not a singing or a wind instrument, there's really not an understandable ban. But I want to do something else. Dear Minister, a week ago, I interviewed the Prime Minister here about the situation of unmarried partners from different countries that divided travel restrictions in connection with the epidemic. The Prime Minister told me that there will be a new exemption from the entry ban from Monday, which will allow partners to travel to residents from EU countries, and that - I quote: "Third countries will not be dealt with, nor will it be in accordance with the recommendation of the EU Council that we are sticking to." The new version of the safeguard measure actually brought what the Prime Minister announced. This is commendable progress, but two situations remain unresolved, which, in my opinion, should be resolved very quickly. First, the citizens of third countries who need visas still cannot travel to their unmarried partners. They do not have an exception to the ban on issuing new Schengen visas in the embassy. Fortunately, this does not apply to partners who raise a child with a citizen of the Czech Republic, to whom the exception applies. For example, the Filipino cannot travel to the Czech Filipínec to see his Czech partner. Secondly, partners cannot even travel to third-country residents. For example, a Brazilec established in the Czech Republic cannot visit a Němka partner. I don't understand. I do not understand how the less risky arrival of a partner who raises a child with a citizen of the Czech Republic is compared to the arrival of a childless partner from the same country. The Prime Minister referred to an unspecified recommendation from the EU Council. However, as far as I am aware, on the other hand, on the 7th of August, the European Commission called on the Member States to allow entry. For example, the Netherlands, Denmark or Italy issue visas for third-country partners. Minister, please explain why the Prime Minister's words of the third country will not be dealt with. These people are willing to be quarantined, wearing drapes according to your wishes. But so far, I feel that the only thing preventing it is a lack of goodwill. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u27	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to stick to the subject of ready interpellation. And I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the question of non-married partners travelling from third countries. Since the onset of the disease pandemic COVID-19 at the beginning of the year, there have been many significant restrictions on travel, not only in Europe but all over the world. Following the first surge of pandemics in a number of European countries, a coordinated approach has begun, the gradual easing of barriers to travel between EU Member States. The Czech Republic's approach to the conditions of alien entry into our territory is currently based on the recommendation of the EU Council, i.e. the highest body of the Union, in which all Member States are always represented by one representative at ministerial level. This is the Council Recommendation No 2020/912 of 30 June 2020 concerning a temporary restriction on trips to the EU which are not strictly necessary, on the possible abolition of this restriction. This EU Council Recommendation has already been amended three times since its adoption, as last amended by Council Recommendation No 1186/20 of 7 August 2020. This is quite a dynamic document because there are currently negotiations on possible changes to it. The EU Council's recommendation then states in your area that EU Member States should allow people from 30 countries to travel, I quote - "for urgent family reasons." [[Third?]] Clearly, this is not any family meeting. According to the current protection measure of the Ministry of Health of 18 September, which is in accordance with Section 68 of Act No. 258, on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended, regulates entry into the Czech Republic in order to prevent the introduction into our country of further cases of COVID-19 disease and is prohibited the entry of third-country citizens who are not on the list of countries with low risk for the occurrence of COVID-19 and third-country citizens who have a temporary or permanent residence in countries that are not on the list of countries with low risk for the occurrence of COVID-19. This list is issued by the Ministry of Health, usually weekly updates, in accordance with the above recommendations of the Council of the EU, on the basis of an up-to-date evaluation of the epidemiological situation in individual states. There are several exceptions, in line with the recommendations of the EU Council, from this ban on entry into the Czech Republic. One of these applies to a foreigner who, with a citizen of the Czech Republic or with an EU citizen with a temporary stay of over 90 days or permanent residence in the Czech Republic, who has accepted the obligations referred to in point 1.5 of the protection measure in an honest declaration of partnership, has a proven permanent partnership relationship with him, lives with him clearly in a common home and has been issued a certificate from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to allow entry into the Czech Republic according to this point. [[15.00 hours]] For some foreigners, however, it is an obstacle that they will not newly obtain a visa for this entry into the Czech Republic. However, if they have any form of residence rights in the Czech Republic or multiple travel visas, which may be expected for partners, this may be covered by the exceptions provided for in the Ministry of Health's safeguard measure. However, it should be pointed out that the Czech Republic is proceeding in this respect in full compliance with the Union guidelines for the acceptance of visa applications from March this year, which are still in force and which restrict the adoption of visas to clearly defined cases. Unfortunately, tourist visas, or visas for a visit that could be used by partners of citizens of the Czech Republic and the EU, are not one of them. I would like to assure you that the European Union is aware and working on the revision of Annex II to the Recommendation on the temporary restriction of trips to the European Union, which contains exceptions recommended in the ban on entry into the Schengen area. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, regularly evaluates the situation, actively participates in meetings at European Union level and is ready to deal with this initiative. However, we do not believe that it is desirable for the Czech Republic to act contrary to Council recommendations and guidelines on visa policy. I understand, of course, the people whom these protective measures prevent from meeting here in the Czech Republic. We are trying to evaluate the whole situation and, if the situation improves, we will try to mitigate these effects on relations between people from outside the European Union, but only in such a way that the Czech Republic does not violate the European Union's uniform procedure and its recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u29	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u30	Thank you. I'm interested because I don't really know what to say to these people. I said here that the Netherlands, Denmark, or Italy are moving differently and moving much more towards those people who have a partner here or have a partner elsewhere, and they just need to be together. The situation is unbearable, they've been apart for weeks, months, or many months, rather than weeks. I don't understand when it goes in the Netherlands, Denmark or Italy, so why it doesn't go in our country and why it can't be established because these people are willing to go into quarantine, they're willing to meet any conditions you set. Then why don't you set up a procedure that will rule out the spread of the plague? That should be possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u31	Thank you. The Minister will answer the additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u32	Mr. Ambassador, if I remove myself from the stern speech of the articles and European regulations, I completely agree with what you are saying here, because it doesn't make any sense, and I'm going to advocate that, in some way, we might assess the situation a little differently than it is in line with the general recommendations, because there is a real way of setting up a regime where, when a person arrives in the Czech Republic after a certain quarantine regime, he could normally stay here in this case. And the second thing is that in the current situation, the burden in our country is higher than in the vast majority of the countries on that list. I'll try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u33	Thank you. She will now present an interview with Minister Věra Kovářová on the information of municipalities II. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u34	Dear Minister, it is our interpelatory prime minister, so I welcome you here and I am glad that you are following up on the good custom of the previous minister to go to interpelation. And now for the interpellation. We have submitted a bill to the Chamber of Deputies. It should provide basic information about the number of municipalities, not names, i.e. the number of people infected or quarantined. It would also impose an obligation on regional health authorities to inform self-government of the planned measures in advance, i.e. at least with a little advance. Your predecessor's position on this proposal was negative. The situation, of course, is changing from day to day, and the authorities are gradually getting information, but it is still based on a kind of gentleman's agreement. Dear Minister, what is your opinion on the request from the municipalities to provide anonymous data on the number of infected people or people in quarantine? Are you going to reconsider the opinion of the resort on the proposal? Wouldn't the adoption of this proposal be a cornerstone for building a comprehensive information system for municipalities that would provide comprehensive information on epidemiological situations in the Czech Republic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u35	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u36	Mr President, Madam President, honourable Members, I have, in essence, a positive report on this interpelation. I want to inform that on 1 September 2020 the Union of Towns and Municipalities sent to the data boxes of mayors of cities and municipalities complete information related to the methodology of transmission of data sets relating to patients with COVID-19. It is necessary for mayors of cities and municipalities to follow the instructions received from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and the transfer of data to the Union of Towns and Municipalities will take place exactly according to the agreed conditions, i.e. open data sets for the granted access to the system are transmitted. At this time, the vast majority of municipalities with extended scope are being served, which can subsequently transmit data to municipalities in their spacious area. The Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic and the UHIS are preparing another shift in this agenda, which is that we want to prepare a portal that would offer the mayors interactive visibility of epidemiological data. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u37	Thank you. Will the Member be interested in a response? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u38	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I know the position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. There was a memorandum concluded concerning the provision of information to the ORP. We are concerned that the data I mentioned should be provided automatically to municipalities of the first and second types, through an information system. But I think it will still be a matter of discussing our law, if necessary. I think that municipalities generally lack a whole range of comprehensive information on the availability and provision of medical care in their surroundings and the provision of medical services to citizens who could help them, for example, in planning public transport and the like, or in what and where there is a lack of doctors. Aren't you preparing or not preparing a system for sharing this information to the authorities? I think it would be for the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u39	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u40	Madam, I am really going to try, as we have been referring here to the fact that the Ministry of Health and the UHIS does not publish a whole range of data, so I think it is unnecessary. We may be able to really all data that is not sensitive, that is, personal data, start publishing and I think it can really go to the level of municipalities. The interactive portal will make it possible to draw all such data. And we can possibly consult during the course, which sets of data are supposed to be there, which aren't supposed to be there, because otherwise, at this point, there's no reason for us to block the classical epidemiological data in any way, which are available. The only thing that was at the beginning and what was a bit of a problem is that in those very small villages, it could have been that these people were able to figure out who the positive ones were. I have about three examples of people breaking windows in that particular house. But I hope we've gotten farther away from the fact that the disease isn't a stigma.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u41	Thank you. And now, Mr Profant, the Minister's Member, will intersect on the issue of smart quarantine. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u42	Good afternoon. Dear Minister of Health, the pandemic has turned our people's lives inside out. If we want to bring our lives closer to normal, we need a really smart quarantine, or we'll just have those restrictive solutions that I hope no one wants, and we should always consider them an extreme possibility. However, the steps taken by your government's executives are highly unconvincing. Regional sanitary stations in Liberec and Pilsen are not connected to central software, regional sanitary stations refuse to send SMS codes for eRoušek application, yesterday members of the ANO movement voted against positive motivation to use the eRoušek application. Last but not least, you do not publish enough data and decisions are unpredictable. And here I have to point out that this uncertainty is what leads to the problems of our economy. If we have clear rules that are predictable, our economy will be much better off. But a lot of disciplines under these conditions, when everything is announced from day to day, what was true a week ago, is changing and so on, cannot exist. That's why I ask: does the government believe in the principle of clever quarantine? Will it support citizens' motivation to use it? If so, what steps? Third: When do you start driving county sanitation stations? Fourth: When do you start publishing hospital workloads across regions? Fifth: When do you start publishing the utilization of specific hospitals? And six: when are you going to publish epidemiological models? For example, Slovakia has a public epidemiology model since the beginning, so - děkovat you. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u43	Thank you. Then you will be able to ask additional questions if necessary. Now I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in general, a smart quarantine project is a system which aims essentially to centralise the various elements that were dominantly around health stations. But it's a much wider complex that affects the laboratory that concerns the sampling sites and the entire complex of measures to lead to the imposition of quarantine measures. The system contains a number of specific elements, more than a hundred sampling bodies, laboratories, public health authorities and other components. At this point, an integrated central control team is trying to coordinate the entire process practically 24 hours a day. We've got analytical outputs from the system. There was a connection between individual elements, which basically meant electronization within a few weeks, and what wasn't really here for three years. It can be said that there are some problems of clever quarantine undoubtedly. The whole system has been defined by some capacity that has started to increase sharply in recent weeks. This means that at the moment the capacity is increased by the fact that there have been various professions that allow third calls to be called and ease health professionals and epidemiologists in their work. The truth is, however, there has been a delay in Prague and the Central Bohemia Region in recent weeks, which was so big that it has basically made it impossible to erase some cases. It shouldn't be happening at this point. The capacity is that, prospectively, everyone should be routed within 48 hours. As far as the management of regional health stations is concerned, at this point all 14 regional health stations should be involved in the system of smart quarantine. The communication was not always simple, but it actually works by using the Daktel system, from which we have an overview of what cases are captured there. As for the specific questions, the utilization of regions in terms of hospitalization capacity is no longer an entirely direct part of the clever quarantine, but it is undoubtedly related. The data already provided at this time are data that allow you to see the capacity of individual stakeholder in terms of medical emergency care, ambulances and so on. But at this point, the capacity is still one that allows hospitals to see their capacity, but from Monday, the system should be connected as it has been said here on the basis of the discussion that everyone will basically see everyone in the system. So everyone will actually see into the capacity of the facility in the Czech Republic. With regard to the utilization of the regions, we want to publish this on a dose basis, as well as once a week, so that citizens can see it. The only thing we don't want to do so far is to be busy with specific hospitals, because we're a little worried that the citizens will then say, "I don't want to go to this hospital because that bigger hospital next door still has capacity, and I want to go there. That's why it's not yet. As far as models are concerned, I think that several models have already been published here. All these models have a certain degree of reliability. On the other hand, none of them are so realistic that we could say that precisely according to him, the epidemic will behave. And we see that the jumping growth that was here in September wasn't exactly predicted by anyone. Of course, there were assumptions that there would be a second wave, but those assumptions did not correspond with the big increase that was here in the first few days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u45	Thank you. The Member shall enter additional questions. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u46	Thank you for your answer and thank you for what you promised, which data you will publish, including those with answers to Mrs Kovářová's last interpelation. However, I am still not convinced that we can really support the principle of clever quarantine, which will help us to return to normal life even in the time of existence with this virus. This means, for example, the application eRouška, or abroad, people register when they go to restaurants and similar elements that there... For example, in Britain it is already de facto automated, and thanks to that people can live there relatively normally, travel relatively well, and hopefully manage to live with this virus at this time as well. But I just don't see this in the Czech Republic, and I think it's an organizational problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u47	Thank you. The Minister, if he wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u48	Dear Member, it is true that the campaign to support eRouška at the moment is inadequate and is preparing a much more mass campaign that should lead to a significantly larger percentage of the population installing erouška. At this point, there's about 560,000 people in the installation. It's going quite quickly, but we really need a much more fundamental campaign that should be here. We are planning similar measures that you mentioned here, in the sense that people who will go to restaurants will sign up as they are in Germany. It is a thing that will significantly enable then tracking in the case of precisely the involvement of a clever quarantine. The problem we have at the moment is that the smart quarantine is quite effective on numbers somewhere up to 300, up to 500. If we're on the maths of up to 3,000, its efficiency is actually falling, and we have a community spread where a smart quarantine is significantly less effective. That's why, unfortunately, we need to do the brakes, which are more severe unfortunately, and then we need to get back to consistent compliance with the clever quarantine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u49	Thank you and now Mr Jiránek will interpel Mr Havlíček on the construction of the motorway in the Kralovehradecký Region and related repairs. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u50	Hello, co-workers, colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Please consider my interpelation as an appeal to you to appeal to the line of ŘSD on the topic of road repair in connection with the construction of motorways. I will give an example of the Hradec Králové Region. D11 - section between Hradec and Jaroměř - has been stopping for two years. Highway stops right next to road no. 33, which is now the main transport artery of the entire region, where there is the largest daily traffic. This 16-mile road has been repaired over and over in the last two years, almost all the time. Last year and last year, I barely remember a week when between spring and autumn we would pass this road without a motorcade, without traffic lights for some sort of repair. When I counted it, I spent about two days of my life on the motorcades. I understand, of course, the need to repair, for example, cracked pipes, but to improve purely the surface when it is known that the motorway is being completed next door, I do not understand. I'm sure the vast majority of drivers would prefer to ride a bit more bumpy road for two years before the highway gets here, rather than spend hours a week in motorcades for a large part of the year. That's why my appeal goes to think about it for further preparation of motorways, not just D11 so that the unacute repairs of major roads near them for some logical period of two or three years are prepared after the completion of the motorway, when most of the cars simply move to the new highway. The traffic on those roads will then be much lower and the repairs will not cause those multi-mile columns. I suppose everyone will appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u51	The Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. D11 is a key building, no need to be convinced. I think the good news is that we are able to accelerate it and that therefore the section Hradec Králové - Smiřice and Jaroměř will eventually be a little earlier. We managed to move it about six months, so by the end of 2021 these sections will be, and they will be at the same time. I wasn't entirely identified when I came to the transport department that one should be finished a few months earlier. That's just gonna piss the driver off, and it's a shame, because that's where good work is done from my point of view, and even my predecessors, I'm not taking it politically, ideologically, I think they've prepared the buildings well. So that's the good news. Now, of course, what is involved in all of this complicates the situation for drivers. I've gone over it several times. I went there on purpose this weekend, I went there on weekdays, and it's really not easy to go through today. There's traffic, angry drivers, so we have to go through with it. This, of course, involves what you said, namely the I/33 road. I've been briefing on that. And now I don't want to be a smart guy here who understands every side of the road and how best to fix it. It's definitely not because somebody had nothing to do, and they kind of wanted to stall the traffic. It is a very important road, which is enormously burdened, and the current communication in the current state, at least as I communicated with the experts, or without the repair carried out, would not have lasted, especially the increased burden of building traffic from the construction of the particular D11 motorway, and the road would not then meet the requirements for transport safety, which, according to the Road and Motorway Directorate's claim, cannot be accepted. For this reason, the repair of the incriminate I/33 road is coordinated with the construction of a full D11 motorway, and thus the conditions for the ramp and exit of construction traffic from the D11 motorway are improved thanks to the traffic management of workers in our opinion. I can therefore state that the I/33 road will then be transferred to the II road network after the D11 housewarming. classes owned by the Hradec Králové Region, which I think is correct at the moment. However, in order to carry out the transfer, the road in question must be in an appropriate technical condition. So an apology to all those who may not be able to carry it quite well, but I'm sure the Road and Motorway Directorate is doing it to keep the road in some condition. It's not an easy construction, and it just has to be secured by the arrival and departure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u53	Thank you. The Member will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u54	I won't have an additional question. I want to thank you for this reaction. I really think of her as, let's say, starting some discussion, because I was just talking about it in the spring with the director of ŘSD, and he accepted the arguments, let's say. And I actually initiated this interpelation from the point of view that I had once again experienced the last three weeks of the column six seven kilometers, or five kilometers plus minus, when again a piece of surface was repaired, 400 meters, and again just three weeks stopped. So I understand the arguments, and I'd like to see the driver continue to explain more, because the negative emotions are very strong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u55	Thank you. The Minister will no longer respond. So now, Mr Nacher should intersect Minister Prymula on 'coronavirus - a turning point', but Mr Nacher is not present, so his intervention is failing and Mr Navrkal, Minister Benešová, whom I welcome among us, will intersect to stop illegal executions. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u56	Thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, this issue is difficult. I would just like to finally resolve the incident that took place here during the debate on the state budget amendment here in plenary, when Minister Schillerová said, before the vote on amendments to the budget amendment for this year - about my amendment to the budget amendment, I quote: "I will not support this for the simple reason, we want to enforce it, we want to raise officials there. I spoke to Secretary Benešová a moment ago about the fact that she told me that she would just find 100 million in her chapter. So that's the only reason I won't support it. It's not that we don't want to do it." End of quote. So I would like you to explain to me, Minister Benešová, how Mrs Schillerová could have gotten the impression that you promised her something like this, or how it could have happened here. Because you didn't actually answer me when I asked you in writing about how you wanted to implement it exactly, how it should work, so you didn't actually answer me that you wanted to implement it at all, but you explained to me the reasons why you didn't want to do it. Of course, we can talk about them, but I'm mostly interested in what happened here, because a member of the government just made a promise here, and it looks like it was another lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u57	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u58	Have a good afternoon. Mr Member, we have been back on this subject many times, and I warn you that I have not promised anything, and I do not know how you have spoken to Minister Schillerová, in any case I do not see any incident. You made a suggestion here. You were convinced that it would basically deal with the money you poured into the Justice Department, but it's not about money, it's about organizing work. And it's already been solved. Some courts have already stopped the executions. I can name Znojmo for example and the region of the Ústí Region. I considered your solution to be non-systemic, plus the presidents of the courts decide on the money. And I explained to you that I'm afraid they'll put the money on something else. Besides, we already gave them officials in 2019 for this agenda to process. They are paid and they are also working on this agenda, and quite successfully. So I didn't think your solution was appropriate. [[15.30 hours]] As far as I know, we've quite explained, so there's definitely no affair. It's really about the job organization. In April 2019, we sent a letter to the District and Regional Courts to address the problem. In June, we sent them a table with the executions involved, so we provided them with methodological assistance, and in October 2019, we sent a questionnaire to the individual courts, as they had progressed, and we followed the agenda. Some courts have been able to fully review the executions and stop them, which I mentioned here. The Ministry's intended next step will address selected courts whose methods for handling this problem will be evaluated as the most effective, and on the basis of the information received, we will prepare additional methodological material. I assume the material will be produced by the end of this year. And it is necessary to stress that the Ministry cannot infect the courts with anything, that would criticize us here again from Brussels, and in any way interfere with their decision-making activities. I think that we have done our best for this issue, and at the moment everything is working out as it should, and there are no delays. So I wouldn't see the problem, and it would be wise if you came to me and stopped interpelling me, which is your right, but it's been a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u59	Thank you. The Member will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u60	I wouldn't have interfered with you if it hadn't taken place here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary. I'll repeat the quote one more time. I understand, you're arguing here why it's not a good idea. But that wasn't the point. That's not what I asked here. I asked how it was possible that Mrs Schillerová here said that you told her that you would find the 100 million in the budget and that you would implement it. And that's the gros problem. I'm not talking about whether it's a really good idea or a bad idea. I'm talking to Deputy Minister Spousta and so on about how to move forward with this problem, but all I care about is the government saying something that isn't true again. And if it was here before the vote on my amendment, and it was the only reason why Minister Schillerová did not accept it, I do not understand. So you promised her, didn't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u61	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u62	I'm not one of those guys who picks up words, and I don't know what you and Mrs. Schillerová have been talking about. I made it clear to her that we're gonna solve this issue, and if it takes some money, I'm gonna find the money. But it doesn't want the money, as I explained to you, and that's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u63	Thank you. Mr Černohorský will now intersect Minister Havlíček in the context of the amendment of Act No. 416/2009 Coll. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u64	Thank you for the floor. As you all know, we've been discussing the amendment to Act No. 416 with the fact that Mr Kolovratník here drew attention to one construction that they may have a problem with. It was then pointed out that, in fact, for this construction, the problem should be solved by the previous amendment. In many cases, many of the other buildings that we were actually dealing with in the previous amendment have not moved completely. So I'm wondering if the Ministry of Transport has carried out some detailed analysis, where it has dealt with the specific constructions, whether the analysis is possibly in writing, when it is not as if general, but in particular for each construction it is written how it was able to move the construction further, and whether it was actually based on the fact that we modified Act No. 416. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u65	Thank you for the short and clear question. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u66	Yes, thank you. Here we are still talking about the 48th, its 2018 amendment and its amendment from the current week, which we confirmed. There's nothing wrong with that at all. We never said the novel was bad in 2018. On the contrary, I think that, as was adopted by a large majority of Members, it was a good amendment, which is also evidenced by what you mentioned, whether we call it an analysis or simply a list of experience with the introduction of the law, or that amendment from 2018. We are not in an area where we can evaluate this completely brilliantly in two years, because these are constructions that take many and many years, but we have given these results over the two years. We gave them to all members of the Economic Committee, even I think it was given to other actors in the Chamber of Deputies, I am not quite sure, in any case it is possible to request it, I will give it to you, or the Directorate of Roads and Motorways. It has an interim decision in its content, or how many proposals have actually been submitted and so on, as they have done, then the point of entry on the land, delivery in proceedings under the construction law with a large number of participants. There is a discussion of the fiction of the consenting binding position, but it is there with zero, because the provision has not yet been applied, it was not necessarily necessary, it is actually done very exceptionally, and then the delegation of the power to conduct the territorial and expropriation proceedings to the regional authorities of 2e. [[Section?]] That means a short assessment of what it was like, it's there. Like I said, all the members of the Economic Committee got it. The more important thing is different. The year 2020 and the current amendment are important. I wouldn't even tie it to the fact that something's still being analysed. I always say that when the arguments run out, the analysis comes out and we start to figure out why we don't have an analysis. Don't let us analyze ourselves to death. It's as simple as that. We're just gonna tell each other what turned out, what didn't work out. And especially in a year, in two, in three, we can get another upgrade. Four hundred and sixty-six is such a complicated law in which transport, industry, local development participate, concerns strategic buildings in the field of transport, in the field of energy, in the field of electronic communications, that it will never be ideal. Let's accept that, because it's just that we can improve it. And I'm saying, at least I'm of the opinion, if we come back in a reasonable period, like two years from now, to the opinion, or whoever here, of course, is going to have to improve it, and we can agree on it, let's do it again, and in the next two years, let's do it again. That means, let's keep trying to make that law fit the current needs we have. If this is how it's going to be, and this discussion is still as substantive and good as it was for the last amendment, and I have to say, it was non-political, then thank God for it, because I believe that the act that we did, especially now in the last week, was very significant. And our determination to the so-called Polish road is immensely moving Czech roads, constructions and railways towards the fact that we will have them faster. That is what I think is what everyone is waiting for, because we cannot accept that some groups that, although they have the right to do so and no one takes it away from them, nevertheless take as hostage passengers, drivers, regions, municipalities, government, all who simply want strategic infrastructure buildings, buildings, to use. So it was a good move, and it doesn't change the fact that even the year before, or two years before, it went quite well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u67	The Member will have an additional question, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u68	I'm sure I understand that working on something permanent may be annoying in some respects, but on the other hand, so that we don't get any work done here. Because if you're preparing an amendment to the law based on any impressions or feedback from, let's say, ŘSD, then it needs to be backed up by some numbers and arguments, because it can happen that we're going to be targeting completely wrong places, and even though it's going to be a number of times that we're going to be amending the construction law, or even an amendment of 40 and sixty-sixteen, we can go somewhere else all the time. Finally, I would certainly ask whether it would be possible to send me an analysis on my parliamentary e-mail which went to the members of the Economic Committee because I am not a member of the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u69	Thank you. Will the Minister respond? He's not interested. Well, in that case, let's move on. Mrs Kovářová will intersect the absent Minister Toman on the case of the Chancellor's stylish ride. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u70	Dear Minister, the State Agricultural Intervention Fund decided at the beginning of this year that Ski-Moravia must repay the million-dollar subsidy it received for snowing the slope in Nový Lhota in 2009. The reason is simple: the lifts of this slope never started. There wouldn't be anything special about that. But Ski-Moravia hasn't responded to SZIF's call for six months. There wouldn't be anything special about that either. The manager of the company appealed to the Ministry of Agriculture, which rejected his request, so the director appealed to the Ministry again. There would still be nothing special about this if - this time, the Ministry of Agriculture had not complied with his application and the company Ski-Moravia had not been freed from the refund of CZK 1.2 million, which had never been reflected in the operation of the ski resort. Perhaps it is not so strange if we realize that the company Ski-Moravia was founded by the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Vratislav Mynář and its director is Chancellor's good friend Aleš Pfeffer. Then this non-standard procedure isn't even a little strange. However, it becomes particularly reprehensible. On what basis, then, did the ministry at which you headed free the company from returning the subsidy? And why did she suddenly change her mind radically when, at the end of last year, she claimed that the recovery of this money was absolutely necessary? The argument of an unpredictable water shortage in the area certainly cannot stand because the company knew or had to know about the dryness of the area from the project plan. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u71	Thank you. The Minister is excused, as I have already said, so he will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. And now Mr Navrkal will intersect Minister Schillerová, who is also excused, in the matter of stopping illegal executions. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u72	Thank you for the floor. It's the same thing I was talking about with Secretary Benešová again. I'm gonna remind you to have it down nicely. Before the vote on the amendment to the budget for this year, you said following my amendment to the amendment to the budget - I quote: "I spoke to Minister Benešová a moment ago, saying that she told me that she would just find a hundred million in her chapter, so that is the only reason why I will not support it, not that we would not want to implement it." Given what Mrs. Benešová here just told me in response to my previous interpellation, it seems like you just lied, Secretary Schillerová. Either you lied or you didn't seem to get along. Anyway, I would like to ask you to explain how it really was, and I would ask you to weigh the words you make here in plenary a little better next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u73	Thank you. I'm going to point out that ministers respond in writing to what's in the tapestry, so it needs to be loaded. Right. And now, Mr Profant will interpel Mrs Benešová in the case of the digitalisation of the Ministry of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u74	Good afternoon. Madam Secretary, at the end of last year we approved the law on the right to digital service. This law means major changes and a very clear need for digitalisation for central government. This issue is dealt with within the House by a subcommittee for the digitization of justice and e Collection, which I am a member of. However, I cannot shake the impression that things are not moving too much in this area. The delays and problems suffer even the simpler projects. While we learn how public procurement is taking place, how we have moved to the next phase, which has already been canceled and so on, we do not see the results. That's why I want to ask you: is your ministry ready for digitalisation? Do you have enough qualified people? Can you put your agenda in the register of rights and obligations as required by the law on the right to digital service that we approved here last year? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u75	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u76	Dear Member, you have asked a few questions, and I must assure you that we are ready for digitalisation and that I even prefer it for next year, not only in terms of what you are asking, but we will develop it more widely, because we were in Bavaria last year to see how the electronic file works there, and it has been prepared from about the beginning. As regards our obligations under the law on the right to digital services, we have been intensively focusing on this since the beginning of the year, in close cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. First of all, the civil servants of the Ministry of Justice took part in a number of professional seminars organised by the Ministry of Interior to implement the law on the right to digital services. We have discussed with the Ministry of the Interior, among other things, the issue of the processing of fundamental agendas in the Gesture of the Ministry of Justice into the form of digital services. Following successively presented documents of the Ministry of Interior and gradual adjustments in relevant information systems of the Centre, the Ministry of Justice works on the preparation of documentation for the catalogue of digital services, in particular by identifying individual digital services and their actions and preparing detailed descriptions of services based on prepared departmental model digital services. We are also preparing the documentation for a digitization plan regarding agendas and actions that are currently not available in similar digital services. The necessary analyses of the current state of affairs have not yet been completed, but I can already say that a large part of the services, the operations in our ministry's strategy can be implemented digitally. For example, they are the receipt of all submissions in electronic form, legal proceedings can be initiated electronically, specific electronic form submissions are accepted, such as a proposal for the issuing of an electronic payment order or a European order for payment. The courts shall be able to transmit decisions in electronic form, including the designated clauses of the power of attorney. The Ministry also carries out a public contract under the eJustice project, in which the system of execution of a fully electronic file will be delivered. I already mentioned that. That's what we're working on with the Bavarian Justice Department. By transferring to the electronic file, other digital services, such as remote access to the file, will also be made available. As regards other projects relating to eJustice and digital services, it is also necessary to mention the project for the creation of a new information system of experts and interpreters and the project for the inclusion of the agenda of genuine owners and trust funds in the information system of public registers. I guess that's all for your questions. As far as European money is concerned, this week we had a videoconference with Vice Prime Minister Havlíček on the topic of the National Recovery Plan, and within this National Recovery Plan, we will also apply next year a project called Digital Approach to Justice. The project's gonna be $1,150 million, and we've already got a third of it booked. The rest is not a problem to compete and exhaust and negotiate. So if you're this satisfied, that's your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u77	Thank you. I think the Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u78	Thank you for your answer. I think it was quite extensive. I wish you every success in this area, and I hope that this will finally succeed and that our citizens will really profit from, for example, being able to simply look at the file and the like, as you said. And I look forward to it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u79	Thank you. Madam Secretary will no longer respond. So, please, Mr Munzar, who will intersect the apologized Minister of Plaga on the case of school closure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to ask Minister Plaga a few questions, I wanted to know his personal opinion. However, I will only stick to the part to which I would like to have a written answer. I wanted to ask about school closing, because when it closed, in the absence of attendance education and in the absence of an interaction between a pupil and a teacher, the differences between the level of education of individual pupils are increasing, and the differences seem to have also resulted from a different approach to distance learning during the long closure of schools before the summer. So I wanted to ask the Minister as part of his interpellation whether he would not have provided me with an overview of the Ministry of Education, an analysis of individual schools' access to distance education, and in particular what kind of conclusions the Ministry of Education had drawn for the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u81	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will respond to your intervention in writing within 30 days. And I am now asking Mr Cernohorský, who will interpel Mr Havlíček on the completion of the I/56 motorway. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u82	So it's a first-class road. I would like to ask the Minister if he could give me any information about when this construction is planned to start, because at this point on the ŘSD website there is virtually no timetable. This is the plan since about 2008. Although the senators were now trying to get this road into the amendment to Act 416. In case it was included, I wonder if the schedule, which may have been prepared by ŘSD, would be in some way faster, if there was any way to speed up the construction of this first-class road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u83	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u84	The preparation of the I/56 transfer between Opava and Ostrava was promoted in inappropriate parameters close to the motorway arrangement, which made its further preparation really impossible, as it is not economically possible to build two four-track moves between Ostrava and Opava. The priority for the capacitive connection was given to the four-line at I/11, which is already from about two thirds in operation, which you probably know because you are from the region, and other constructions on the Komárov and Nové Sedlice bypass are currently being prepared. In the next step, the mentioned I/56 developed so that it was necessary to proceed to a certain revision of the design parameters of the communication, which, in turn, came across disagreement. The shift occurred only in 2018, when the region acknowledged the merits of the I/56 transfer design, already in the corresponding parameters. The technical study, the transport model of the whole area, was subsequently processed. The result of the design is capacity communication I/56 Ostrava-Hlučín, variant four lanes, respectively. a three-string, with another continuation on Opava in a two-string arrangement. It's always so that the off-level intersections are with respect to those strong intersection movements. Technical solutions and economic evaluation are currently being completed and the planned construction schedule will also be included. The preparation is in the initial stages, it is not possible to count on the start of the implementation before 2028. The implementation period will then be standard, approximately three years, with individual parts of I/56 being the subject of stageization. At the current stage, we do not identify a major obstacle, which is probably good news, in the discussion of this construction, but it is not possible to rule out the involvement of different opponents in the following stages, in particular the various environmental organisations, which, among other things, make it quite difficult for these constructions in this region, that cannot, of course, be anticipated. What is good news is that the already mentioned Line Act should also help to discuss this at the preparatory stage of the construction, and I believe that complex recodification of building law will help, but it goes in parallel, of course, next to that. I think that's basically all there is to say. I'm not from the region, so I let everything go. If you need any more detailed information, please come and there is no problem to make an appointment with competent ŘSD people to tell you more detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u85	Thank you. Mr Černohorský is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u86	I'm just a partial supplement. He is there because the problem is that Petřkovice is at that moment heavily overloaded, because there is a very narrow road, within which huge columns occur and to stop actually everyone who travels to the surrounding area. That's why I think that should be a little more priority here. [[unintelligible]] But I'd be happy to contact the representatives of the ŘSD and take the local mayors with me, if necessary, so they can hear for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u87	Thank you. The Minister will no longer respond, so I beg Mr Jiránek, who will interpel Mr Prymula on patients with COVID-19 in hospitals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u88	Hello, Minister. My question will be brief. On Sunday, you spoke on a television programme on statistics hospitalized on COVID-19. I quote from the article: Up to 40 percent hospitalized on specialized covid beds lie with covid, but they are without symptoms and basically need no treatment. They're in the hospital because there's nowhere to place them. According to the Minister, it is called. social patients. I have received dozens of questions about this statement, so how is it in connection with the gradual filling of hospital departments? And personally, I am not looking for any sensation, on the contrary, I would like to calm the situation down with this explanation. So could you explain exactly what this is about, and what does the term social patients mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u89	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to concentrate the answer on this dominant question, because perhaps it is not necessary to describe the entire capacity of the system that is here. Basically, you can see from what got into the mass media that the system's capacity is sufficient at the moment, but it's really filling up and we're forced to involve other beds that basically mean we're already restructuring and we need to limit care on those beds where otherwise patients with planned surgeries would be lying and using them. When I was talking about the situation that concerns patients who are basically considered social, maybe the term isn't exactly accurate. They are patients who are positive for covid, but their disease is absolutely minor, meaning there are virtually no clinical symptoms and they are in the hospital for certain reasons. The current number is that we currently have 1 028 covid positive cases in the hospital and 42 percent of them are easy to run, there is no need for any specialized treatment, so there is no need for oxygen or ventilation, and the mode is basically maintenance. The reason for this is long-term, and it's not just about the covid. We do not have enough beds after care, but we have a relatively surplus of acute care beds, so with a number of diagnoses these people are hospitalized in medical facilities without leaving sufficiently early for social beds. The problem here is specific. In particular, it has to do with the fact that there are a lot of seniors in social care facilities who, when they are infected, it is very difficult to create regime measures on the soil of this facility so that part of the elderly home is positive in the cod regime and the other part is positive for people who are negative and there is no risk of being infected with each other. That's why the positives in a number of cases are being taken to hospitals. Here at the beginning of this hospitalization may make sense, which means, basically, there were some symptoms, the person is being treated, and then he gets to a phase where there are no symptoms anymore, he could be released, but he's still in a period when he's eliminating the virus and he's positive. And because it's impossible to put him in his maternity facility, he has to stay in the hospital, and, of course, he's on beds that could be used for emergency care. For this reason, at the moment, various devices are being identified both in Prague and in other regions, so that they can be placed there for that transitional period and subsequently taken to the senior homes. If that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u91	Thank you. The Member will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u92	Thank you very much. That means, the thing is, the system still has some kind of reserve, let's say, the few hundred people that can be moved without any risk... Very good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u93	Thank you. And by that, we have exhausted all the interventions on the ministers who are present, so I thank them and move on to Mrs Kovářová's block to absent ministers. First of all, the MP will intercede Vice Prime Minister Hamáček on the matter of a hundred and six: villains for laughter, honest to anger. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u94	Dear Minister, your resort is now preparing an amendment to the law on the provision of information, the so-called hundred and six. As part of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, the Presidential Office submitted a comment. It proposes a delegation of power to decide on an appeal from the Office of Personal Data Protection back to the Office of the President of the Republic. Your resort has agreed to this comment. As you know, not only does the Castle have long-term problems with publishing information. This has been confirmed recently by the court, and the presidential office has had to publish the salaries of its leading employees. I am even more concerned about the audacity of the President's Office of the Republic's decision-making power. Another such stubborn non-information provider is the Central Bohemia Region, which your resort has ordered to provide information about the rewards in the appeal decision, which still refuses. If I ignore the excesses of the Castle in providing, i.e. not providing information, it is unthinkable for me in the legal state to decide on the appeal by the same authority that issued the original decision and I do not like the situation at all if Mr.Vratislav Mynář is the representative of this institution. Dear Minister, how do you evaluate the provision of information by the Office of the President of the Republic? Is it acceptable for you to appeal against a decision not to provide information on the basis of a hundred-six basis by the same authority? And what steps are you going to take towards mandatory entities who are obliged to provide information on the basis of your appeal decision, but are ignoring this obligation? What is the practical threat to the Central Bohemia Region, which ignores the decision of the Ministry of the Interior? [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u95	Thank you. And now we're going to move on to your interview with Vice Prime Minister Hamáček on the case of drapes: coordinated irresponsibleness. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u96	Dear Minister, the Ministry of the Interior sent around three million shipments with masks and respirators to citizens of the Czech Republic, which reached the age of 60, in the week from 14 September. That would certainly be a very nice gesture, but if the Ministry had not let the drapes unpack from the original packaging, this would have made them hygienically devalued. This was also highlighted by the State Institute for Drug Control. He pointed out that medical devices under the law should be treated in such a way that there is no breach of the original packaging prior to the delivery of the user. The Ministry of the Interior also apparently provided personal data to people who subsequently received drapes, including name, surname and address, without proper legal support. Dear Minister, my question is therefore simple. Under what legal authority did the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Post transmit personal data to the residents concerned? Has the Ministry of the Interior consulted the conditions of the distribution with other responsible authorities, such as the Ministry of Health, in the case of the Office for Personal Data Protection? Don't be mad at me, but the case looks like the left one doesn't know what the right one does, nobody's responsible, and nobody's to blame. On the state, or this government, it casts a very bad light. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u97	Thank you and next is your interpelation for the vice-premiere of Hamáček on the situation in the Czech Post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u98	Yes, in this case, I would like to wait for a direct answer and for the presence of the Minister. It's about the Czech Post, so I'm hoping that I'll have the opportunity at my next interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u99	Okay, we'll look forward to it. And now there is your interpellation to Minister Petříček, in the matter of China's responsibility for spreading COVID-19. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u100	Dear Minister, we are facing the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Every day we read about the new dead, the number of infected. We all have to wear drapes, economic and social stability is still at risk in the Czech Republic and in many countries of the world. Yet, if the Chinese communists had not withheld the facts of the paramedics last year, there is a chance that the situation would not have evolved into the dimension of this disaster. Dear Minister, my question may be naive. Was China's secretive process contrary to international law? Is it possible to talk about China's responsibility and is there a chance to enforce it? And is there a claim for damages against the countries that have been damaged by the epidemic? I understand they may be naive questions, but, as they say, stupid is no question, stupid can only be the answer. So I ask for a clever answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u101	Thank you, and now for your last interview, again, to Secretary Schillerová on the budget for the edge of the law. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u102	Madam Secretary, for next year, your ministry has proposed a state budget deficit of CZK 320 billion. This, according to the National Budget Board, goes beyond the framework already laid down by the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility. In fact, a wide range of experts, economists, and even national supervisory authorities have long pointed out the unsustainable nature of this public finance trend and an inefficient way of managing the state. The Prime Minister himself was still upset in 2013 whether - I quote - it is normal that the state declares year after year that it will manage the loss, and yet faces what success it is. End of quote. The economists of Komerční banka pointed out in September last year that government management has achieved the worst result since 2014. The current government, however, does not address this situation. Despite alarming predictions by economists about slowing down the economy of the Czech Republic, which will inevitably occur, if state management fails to undergo major reform, it is further indebted, which is at least irresponsible. Madam Secretary, why doesn't the government solve these problems in the long run? How do you feel about economists expressing that we are only short-term budgeting to survive until the next election, and after you can come a flood to which every taxpayer, every ordinary citizen, can pay? How is the Ministry of Finance planning to reduce the state budget deficit without having to resort to tightening the belts in the future? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-01-ps2017-058-07-005-490.u103	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all these interventions shall be answered by the ministers in writing within 30 days. I am of the opinion that this is the end of today's meeting by discussing all the interventions, so I am ending with this item number 490. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we have also discussed the 58th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am now ending. See you again next week on Wednesday 7. 10:00 p.m. at the 61st meeting, where the House Press 1025 is on the agenda. Thank you all for your attention, have a nice weekend and a happy election moment.
