ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /German press 829/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me now present a far more important law than the previous one. It is indeed a fundamental amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance, which was operationally prepared in relation to the current situation as regards the public health insurance system and the financing of health care in the Czech Republic. The aim of this material is to provide funds to implement as quickly as possible stabilization measures to ensure the financing of health care and to maintain the availability and quality of health services at the current level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the Minister can express himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u4	This is a response to the effects related to the spread of COVID-19 disease. Already this year, there will be a significant decline in income in the public health insurance system of around 40 to 50 billion. Crowns. This decline is, of course, given by three main factors, both by the fallout for advance payments by the CFI and the costs associated with the COVID-19 solution within health care providers, and also, of course, by the issue of the system's income loss in connection with the economic slowdown. Despite the existing reserves on health insurance accounts, the system may be exhausted this year, and it would very likely be. As a result, there would be insufficient funding for health service providers and a reduction in the availability and quality of health services. It cannot be ignored that health care will also have to be financed in the coming years, which will be highly difficult if the balance on health insurance accounts and the expected continuation of the economic crisis is exhausted. I therefore come with a government proposal to increase the state's payment of CZK 500 per month for one state insured person per calendar month, with effect from 1 June this year. It is also proposed from 1 January 2021, i.e. from next year, to increase this payment by another 200 CZK. The increase in the payment for so-called state insured persons is an appropriate instrument in the current situation, as it allows the rapid allocation of funds to the area of health financing. The additional funds will continue to be used mainly to maintain the level of remuneration of health service providers at the level of the agreements for 2020, that is to say, so that payments are not reduced in any way this year and all agreements for this year have been complied with, as well as extraordinary expenses to ensure health services related to the spread of COVID-19 disease, which apply to virtually all segments of health service providers, and to increase payments for 2021 at least for those segments of health services that have been most affected by the effects of emergency measures. There is now a conciliation procedure on payments for 2021, and it is therefore necessary that we know exactly the resources we can work with and, of course, health insurance companies in cooperation with health care providers. It is also important to ensure that providers of health services are motivated to try to catch up on the current failures in the provision of health services by the end of 2020 so that their availability is not compromised and waiting times are not extended to a disproportionately high time. And we are also counting on it, and this financial allocation will enable us, with the introduction of the new CZ-DRG system, to know it as DRG Restart, thereby ensuring more efficient spending of funds for acute bed care in order to ensure financial stability of hospitals, whose fixed payments are at the same time under the calculated costs of the DRG Restart project. The estimated number of state insured persons is expected to be around 6 million in 2020. make additional expenditures of the state budget about a little over 20 billion. CZK compared to the original assumption. In the next year, compared to the current situation, if there were no increase in payments for state insured persons at all, there will be an increase of about 50 billion. Crowns. [[16.00 hours]] This is certainly the biggest increase in payments for state insured people in the history of the Czech Republic, but I think that, especially at this time, it is quite appropriate to preserve the real development of Czech health care, to maintain the growth of payments in the following year and, of course, to maintain the quality and availability of care. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so allow me to ask you for your approval, to support this government bill, which is necessary to ensure the financing of Czech health care at the time of the coming economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u5	The Committee on Health, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 829/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Health has discussed this draft law on 21 April. I must say that the discussion was very rich, and we understand that there is an increase in the payment for state insured persons by more than 65 percent, which is grandiose and actually this has never been done before. On the other hand, just a reference to this law has brought peace to health, because medical facilities see that they are being cared for and that the government is dealing with them. So, of course, thank you for that, and that's good. I believe that the Minister has made the law very extensive and detailed, so I don't think it is necessary for me to repeat it again, and I will introduce you to the conclusions adopted by the Health Committee. So, after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Health for the legislation of Deputy Deputy Policar and my report to the Health Committee, I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on the bill by Thursday 23 April at the latest by 18 o'clock; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, as amended, House Press 829. The Health Committee then adopted the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that the payment of health insurance for state insured persons be at least equal to the minimum wage payment of the assessment base. Amendments have not been submitted to the committee and have not been read to this point, as far as I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u7	Thank you. I'm going to ask for more peace in the room, and at the same time I'm going to allow myself to say hello to everyone for the first time in this meeting. The proposal fell, respectively. The Committee proposes that the general debate should be held. If no one has any other proposal or insists on carrying out the vote, I am opening the general debate at the moment. We have several entries into the general debate. First up is Mr. Třešňák. [[The Messenger asks for the floor. Kubíček.]] I didn't see, I'm sorry. A procedural proposal, that's a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, in turn, suggest that the Member's speech be limited to five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u9	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal, i.e. limiting the time for the speaker to five minutes. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. In accordance with the agreement that previously fell, I will give a little more time for them to gather eventually. Looks like we're all here. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. When the number of applicants is settled and we reach the kvora, which has already happened - finally some arrivals, we can vote. For those who are coming, I will repeat what we will vote on. There was a proposal to shorten speaking time in the general debate or in both debates, I suppose, for five minutes. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 86 Members and Members registered in the 64 vote, for 72, against 7, so we have shortened speaking time. And now Mr. Třešňák Man has the floor. And I'll ask for more peace in the room! Especially in the space outside the speaker's desk. There aren't many of us here, so it could be done in peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u10	Thank you. Once again, good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The increase in payments for state insured persons is actually a number of times discussed topic on the premises of the House, even in the period before this crisis, but the actual increase in payments for state insured people and the financing of health care here at the moment I do not want to talk about it, although I consider it absolutely important to maintain the quality of health care and the availability of care. Mr President, if there's anything else we can do...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u11	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask for more peace in the room. I understand that we've been here a long time, and I'm going to ask those who are discussing something other than the current press to do so outside the meeting room, ideally further away from the galleys, so as not to bring the traffic out of the hallway. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u12	I'll keep going. So with regard to payments for state insured persons, I would much rather see, of course, as a more appropriate use of a formula for a fair calculation than such a fixed amount. However, I would like to mention here again a very large population, which are persons without taxable income, and subsequently, in a detailed debate, has read the amendment extending the proposal on a group without taxable income. This group includes, among others, unemployed persons who are not registered at the Labour Office, students over 26 years of age or persons working on an agreement to carry out work but whose income is not higher than the limit amount of 10,000. These people, as I mentioned, are older students, returnees from abroad, modest contractors, or authors working on a work contract, but also a group of mothers of older children who pay them insurance. Even there, a reduction in income within the whole family can be expected. I'd be more specific about the returnees, for example. For example, when it comes to long-term stay abroad, when a person opts out of an insurance company in the Czech Republic, he goes abroad, for example when it comes to volunteering, he has to leave for at least six months, fill out a form and arrange travel insurance abroad for the whole time. The problem arises when a person returns earlier, which has now happened in connection with the coronavirus crisis, and has to pay back the premiums for all the months he has been abroad. As a taxable person, therefore, each month he had to pay an advance of CZK 1 971 each month, which in the case of a return after five months, not six months, makes less than 10,000. It is precisely this amendment that should reduce these injustices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u13	Thank you. Thank you for not spending time. Before I give the floor to another speaker, I have two organizational announcements. Firstly, I say that, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, Members who are not present when discussing the following points, i.e. paragraphs three to seven, point 363 and point 364, will be deemed to be excused because we have an agreement to reduce the number. Furthermore, I would like to say that there is an agreement that, in the case of the following laws and in the case of this law, first we will do a second reading, then we will always interrupt that point and then we will do all third readings. Thank you for your attention. Next, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mrs Kovářová, will be prepared. Please, madam, it's quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Government, Madam Members, at the beginning of my speech I would like to pay my respects once again and to thank all health professionals for their dedication and bravery. It's up to us to provide them with the conditions so that they can treat their work and take care of patients with high professionalism, as most of them can and want us to provide them with those conditions. I therefore intercede, at this point I appeal to the Minister, in order to hear the request of the union for an increase, to grant the one-off fee to the first-line medics. I am convinced that they deserve it and that our public sees it that way. I welcome this bill, which the Ministry of Health has finally heard, the request of the hospital crisis staff from last year. This crisis crew mainly brings together trade unionists, but also the Association of Czech and Moravian Hospitals, Association of Patients and others. The Ministry has therefore heard the proposal to increase payments for state insured persons, and today it presents it to us, and I thank you for that. We know that his motive is now the need to fill out a loss of income in health insurance due to the remission of health insurance contributions at the Ministry of Health, which, only this makes 8 billion. CZK, and of course the costs associated with pandemics. However, the path is right, and social democracy has always supported the demands to increase payments for state insured persons, to stand behind them, and also, if it was in her hands, to do so, to increase these payments. If we want health professionals to be able to work at ease, people with qualifications, and this is a high qualification, they did not run away and patients had guaranteed modern available health care to continue, we must soon reach the EU average, which means about 9 percent of GDP to health. For comparison, in 2019 the Czech Republic gave 6.8% of GDP to health care. The further steps to address this situation are therefore to unwind the payments for state insured persons from the minimum wage and to this amount also to set up a valorisation mechanism. The payment for state insured persons should continue to be comparable to those which give persons without taxable income, which pay CZK 1 971 now. Even the increase we're gonna approve today is for state insured people, if I've read it well for CZK 1 707. You can see there's still a spare. Thus, this is the first prerequisite for comparing wages and salaries in health care establishments, solving follow-up care and ensuring availability of care, including emergency services and others. Finally, one more time. I want to thank the Ministry of Health, the Minister for proposing an increase in payments now. However, we must continue to talk about the detention of their amount to a minimum wage, including the anchoring of its valorisation. We will continue to promote this as a social democracy. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u15	Thank you. Next up, Mrs Kovářová, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the bill. Last Wednesday, the Prime Minister sent a signal through the television screen to the Minister of Health and to Minister Schillerová that he would require an increase in the state's payments for state insured persons to the health insurance system. This year he's gonna need 20 billion, next year it's gonna be over 500 billion. And it seems that the Prime Minister's orders were heard in the quotes, and at the same time allow me to say that this order was correct. Health needs money like salt. We see increasing payments for state insured people as a quick way to get a relatively simple amount of money into the health system. The state pays six-mile insurance. Bohemia, i.e. for three fifths of all participants in public health insurance. In 2019 the State paid insurance companies almost 72 billion for their insured persons. CZK, which accounts for approximately 22 percent of the total income of health insurance companies. It follows, therefore, that the payment for state insured persons is significantly lower than the amounts paid by economically active people to the health care sector. For comparison, this year the state pays CZK 1,067 per month for its insured person. A staff member with an average wage, together with his employer, will take CZK 4 607 to health care every month. The minimum contribution of the CFI is CZK 2,350 per month. From this point of view, therefore, it turns out that Czech health care is highly dependent on the economic cycle. Once the economy has failed and the unemployment rate has increased, then, of course, there are large outages in the health sector. If there is a coronavirus crisis, or if there is an increase in the number of unemployed people, then, of course, insurance companies will lose a significant part of their income. Therefore, we think that this proposed increase in payments for state insured persons by CZK 500 from the second half of this year should at least partially reduce this failure. Let me also comment on the way in which we will be dealing with this bill. We believe that it is better to increase payments for state insured persons at present and to stabilise health insurance companies than to subsidize directly controlled organisations, such as faculty hospitals, regions and their facilities, with the risk of partially losing subsidies or going where we want to support them. [[Won't they?]] The increase in state insurance payments is, from our point of view, the right step, which is why STAN will support this proposal, because the health sector needs funds like salt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u17	Thank you. And now, Mr Kaňkovský, Mrs Aulická will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u18	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues, I am speaking with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club on this House press. This press is actually dealing with two steps, it is an increase in payments for state insured persons from the middle of this year, respectively. from June onwards, and then from 1 June onwards. 1. 2021. The KDU-ČSL club called for an increase in payments for state insured persons in connection with the pandemic of coronavirus in March of this year, namely on 24 March, here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and then on we are 7. 4. directly called on the Government to work and prepare a proposal to increase payments for state insured persons by at least CZK 500. I am glad that the government has taken this step to prepare a proposal that we can discuss today, and KDU-ČSL will support it. We see it as essential in stabilizing the financing of health care, which will be affected by the loss of payments in public health insurance. And as the Minister has already said, the estimates, the sober estimates, are that 40 billion will be gone this year. Crowns. While we have some funding on the health insurance reserves, we believe that this money will not be enough to finance health care. [[16.20 hours]] I would also add to this proposal, which we will support in the vote, the second necessary step, which, at the stabilization stage, is needed in order to ensure the financing of health care not only for the rest of this year, but also in the next year, added the second process that awaits us, and this is a compensation mechanism for the failure of care provided in health care facilities. This applies mainly to hospitals, but this applies, of course, to outpatient specialists and, in part, to practitioners. We talked about it yesterday at the Health Committee. The government has presented us with a plan of how the compensatory mechanisms are planning. It should be noted that health care establishments are affected at the moment by the failure of care as a result of preventive measures aimed at combating Coronavirus disease, and the second impact will be increased costs, because the fight with Coronavirus and those hospitals generates additional costs that hospitals will have to cover, and this is not just about the acute phase, but about the increased hygiene-epidemiology regime even in the coming months. In part, there is also the cost of testing, which is not entirely covered by the costs of health insurance companies. So in order to ensure this, and so that hospitals do not fall from the point of view of their funding, we need to find compensatory mechanisms. And at this point, all I want to do is appeal to the Minister of Health and to the Government so that these compensatory measures are prepared very sensitively, because, of course, the impacts on individual segments of health care are not entirely uniform. Some segments have been affected more or are affected more, some less. So I'll be happy to discuss this later on at the Health Committee and, if necessary, at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So in conclusion - KDU-ČSL welcomes this proposal, supports it in its vote and we are eagerly waiting for the preparation of compensatory mechanisms, which will also be very important for stabilizing the financing of Czech health care. It is necessary to be aware, and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková spoke about it here, of course the health professionals are waiting for it, because we have experienced financial uncertainty many times in Czech health care. It's a very difficult job to think about if you can't take care of a patient at the time he needs it. Of course, it is most important for patients themselves who are waiting for the care they need and waiting for it to the extent they need it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u19	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mrs Aulická. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak for the KSČM parliamentary club. To begin with, Mr. Secretary, what can I tell you? [[Laughs in the hall.]] In fact, on March 4th, on the proposal of the ANO Member, you rejected our proposal, which spoke of the automatic valorisation of the very public health insurance premium, which was to be calculated from 25 average wages (?), which would, of course, bring about a further year to about 14 billion. Well, the only argument that the Minister of Health at least told me personally was that there was no funding. We may have understood that, of course, there is a different situation now, in any case a little bit, and don't be mad at me, we take your proposal as piárová measures in times of crisis and at times of this situation. We all know and understand that the health impact is really significant, but it is, of course, justified also in the explanatory report, and everyone, or almost everyone, is talking about it, that we are talking about about a fall of 40 billion. Anyway, we are very sorry that even our proposal, which we think brought, above all, a systemic solution, which means predictability and systemicity, to this area, has been rejected for only one reason - there are no finances. On the contrary, we are now saying that we are going to add even more, which we understand, of course, and we know that it now needs to be, that no one could, of course, expect this situation, but we are very sorry about the approach that the YES movement has taken on 4 March, respectively. in the course of discussing our parliamentary proposal. I must say that we will, of course, support this proposal, but I could not forgive this point, because we really think that it was systemic, and in the future it has brought a lot of measures that are now taking this uniform amount, virtually. We are unable to secure two amounts. And it is again the path of choosing to add the single amount, that is, not the automation and the valorisation mechanism that we have been trying to do in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time. We all know that the need to add funds to health care is necessary, we agree with it, we support it. Anyway, I believe that if we come up with the automatic valorization again, the only reason missing funding won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u21	Thank you. Mr Válek now, then Mrs Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I'd take the liberty of picking up. Through the President, I would say to the Member that I know what to say. That I'm a Christian, and I know that no one is to be broken by a staff, which means neither is the Minister of Health. My mom doesn't break a stick over me either, she breaks a stick about me every now and then, my boss never breaks a stick over me, my best coworker, and the one who keeps me above the water, Professor Mechl, doesn't break a stick over me either, so I don't break a stick over anybody. And I am not breaking it, although I have repeatedly tried to increase the budget for state insured people and it has not been met with success in approving the budget. We have had proposals, I supported your amendment through the President, and I am therefore glad that we have finally reached this point here and we approve an increase in the remuneration for state insured persons. I thank you very much for this, no matter who pushed it, because the result is essential, and not who pushed it. However, I would like to make a point. We should not fall asleep on laurels, and we should really think about it, and we should really do some systematic work now that we have agreed across the political spectrum that the money for the state insured must be increased, that it is the right way, or one of the right ways, and that, let's face it, was unthinkable six months ago, we were not able to agree on that, so now that we agree on it, we should now talk about it, and I call on this minister to think about it intensively and try to make such a proposal, whether it is not opposition proposal or coalitional, whether it is a ministerial proposal, how to systematically raise the remuneration for the state insured, so that it is linked to some component that moves - average wage, minimum wage, whatever. Although not unanimously, the Health Committee, by a majority of votes, recommends to the Ministry of Health, has approved my recommendation that the Ministry of Health consider, for example, whether to link the remuneration for state insured people with the minimum wage payment. But maybe that's not the best parameter. And why would I be very proud of this? In the morning, in discussions - which I did not understand, and I listened to them with greater interest - experts and people I respect here, across the political spectrum, about whether it will be economically completely tragic next year, or, on the contrary, it will be completely fine, or it will be the same as this year, and de facto they referred to international authorities that are about as clear as epidemiologists are clear about what will happen with the covideo, and as they are clear about whether a person can get a haircut at home or not. But they agreed we couldn't predict anything. That's why I think that the remuneration for state insured people should be tied up with something, and I have a simple common sense, even though I don't always like common sense considerations: If salaries increase, if unemployment does not occur, there will not be so many state insured people and there will be a larger health insurance allowance. On the contrary, if there is an increase in the number of state insured people, unemployment will increase, pay will not rise, we will have to increase the remuneration for state insured people in some way further or debate on supplementary insurance or debate on the deterioration of the quality and availability of health care. The only thing I'm willing to admit is an increase in national insurance payments. Therefore, it should not be a fixed amount for ever, but it should be an amount that is linked to something so that it changes according to the economic situation of Czech society and according to health needs. Minister, I beg you to think about this. Thank you. And otherwise, of course, the TOP 09 club, although weakened and in half composition, fully supports and thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u23	Thank you. And now, Mrs Richterová, who is the last to be entered into the general debate at the moment. However, I see Mr Stanjura reporting. So, Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. I am going to support the amendment on persons without taxable income, which will be read in a detailed debate. It's an out-of-the-field initiative, a complaint involving 60,000 people who are so-called self-payers of health insurance. It is simply from social workers and such people living modestly, feeding typically on brigades, those small agreements that really live for little money. And that is why 1 900 crowns a month for health insurance are now a problem at a time of crisis when it is difficult for some of them to get a part-time job. The reason I'm talking about it is that this person is also typically recruited by people who are being executed for non-payment of health insurance. [[Group]] I bet the Health Department knows about this. And when we were generous and we helped businessmen across the board, businessmen don't have to pay health insurance, so at the same time we propose that people without taxable income, such as older students, for example in the fifth year of study, when they are over 26 years of age, or those who have returned from abroad because of coronavirus, speak about it by a colleague Petr Třešňák, who has to pay for it, if there were only five months, or just those marginal artists, authors who work bumpily, for example those who exhibit twice a year, sell a few paintings - it is just about 60,000 people. Of course, there are also typically some women, mothers of older children, who would not be entitled again to be paid by the employment office, which decided to be at home again. We simply propose to these persons as well as to tradesmen exactly the same way to give them some kind of holiday from health insurance payments. We know nothing's free. But they're not free of charge for the entire company either. And the main argument is that there is already a high proportion of people without taxable income who will be placed in executions due to non-payment of health insurance. So we propose that at this time, at this difficult time, persons without taxable income do not have the obligation that the traders now also do not have, and do not have to pay CZK 1 971 each month. It is a simple amendment where the only paragraph is added: Persons without taxable income under Section 3b shall not be obliged to pay insurance premiums for the period from the beginning of March 2020 to the end of August 2020. Given the economic cost of the entire crisis, given that it is really tens and tens and tens and tens of billions now, yes, there will be some extra cost in the tens of millions for the state, which they simply will not pay for, but at the same time, other tens of millions according to our court will be saved for enforcement through execution and at the extra cost of the state to move people into another and another segment of the grey economy. Once again, we have incentives from people who have returned from abroad, and now, if we do not accept this, they will have to pay for health insurance when they have returned after less than six months. The complaint is from university students who are a little older and simply made a living in their studies. Complaints from just different, as I said, such more marginal, smaller artists, people living modestly, people living at minimum costs, who were simply self-payers of health insurance, and now their long-term working opportunities for earnings and jobs have disappeared. Please consider this proposal, although I know it's last minute, but we've already approved a lot at the last minute, and this is what I think would make sense for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u25	Thank you. And now for the applications from the scene. First President Stanjura, then President Kalousek. I'm gonna ask if you're gonna exercise priority rights, or I'm gonna turn on the stopwatch. [[Member of Stanjura: As you wish.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u26	I'll just respond to Mrs Richterová. We will support the amendment, it is reasonable. Just that last remark, if memory doesn't deceive me, it's the 28th law in a legislative emergency since March 24th. Let's just know we're cutting it like gymnastics. And we make mistakes very often, which is logical in such a hasty regime. We're gonna support the law, but I want to make three points. First of all, we are consciously making a decision, by amending the law, reducing the income of health insurance for businessmen. About 9 billion, someone says 9.5, 9 to 10 billion. At that time, we proposed that we automatically compensate it with state money, whether I or Mr Válek and Mr Kalousek's proposal. So the minister said no. This is only to know that very often it works not what is in the proposal, but who is the proposer of the change. The second thing that stopped me, but I'm only coming out of public sources, and maybe the minister will fix me or not. I paraphrase, I'm not saying exactly, the Prime Minister said sometime last week: So I spent one whole day in health care and suggested an increase in the payment of 500 for this year's civil servant and 700 for next year. [[an insured person?]] Secretary Schillerová and Minister Adam don't know yet. Well, it doesn't feel like that's the way to make laws. The Prime Minister spent all day trying to figure out the number. I say for us that this year's number is basically correct, but I don't know why on 23 April we are dealing with the numbers for 2021, when we don't really know what the impact will be on health insurance. We might know that in August, maybe in September much more accurately than today. So at least in that part of next year, it's only PR without any justification. Maybe the amount is good, maybe it's too high, maybe it's too low. I don't think any of us at the moment -- except perhaps the Prime Minister and those who then blindly follow him -- are able to defend the amount, why it's so much, why it's not a little less or a little more. And I'm just saying, honestly, we don't know what's gonna be enough. It has to do with what Mr. Válek here said. We don't know what employment will be, we don't know what wages will be. So why are we dealing with 2021 now in a state of legislative emergency? [[He's turning to the news desk.]] Minister, if you could answer that question. Except that the Prime Minister spent all day doing it. Let us remember our debate at the end of last year if it is necessary to withdraw from the reserves of health insurance companies. You said you did. That's right, that's right. [[Objection from the newsstand.]] Your government, I'm sorry. Yes, you were against it, but your government as a whole was mostly for it. And I think you're right, I'm sorry. But you didn't enforce your opinion. How we could use them today. It's just a sigh, it has no connection. Or, as the Prime Minister says, there is no connection with this House press. So my question is, and it's not offensive: how did you figure out the amount for next year? And you're sure the amount is good? This year, I think the amount is about right in the knowledge of today's. Plus, I'm saying at least $10 billion has been taken away by us by decision of the House and the Senate. So at least half of the increase is consciously and only covers what we've decided. And I'm not responding to that. Only 50 percent respond to the pandemic itself. Fifty percent is the response to the legislative step, not to the government, but to the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u27	Thank you, and now President Kalousek has volunteered from his seat and this is the last application at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a very short reminder of a time period that is not longer than a year. It was just a year ago - it was March 2019 - when I opposed Minister Schillerová in a television discussion with her crazy idea to cancel payments for state insured people. It is four weeks, namely 24 March, when we proposed to increase payments for state insured persons and the government rejected it. Today, the government increases the payments for state insured persons. All in one year. It calms a man when the government is clear about it and he has a concept.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u29	Thank you. That was the last application for a general debate at the moment. So if no one else is reporting, then the general debate is over. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The Minister is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate and also for the general support of the bill. I think it's absolutely vital not only for this year, but also for next year. I'm here to answer why it's important to decide today. Because, at this point in June, the settlement procedure is under way for next year's payments, which must therefore be completed by June, so that a payment decree can be established accordingly. It is clear that if today we are in doubt about the amount of resources for next year under the public health insurance system, there is nothing to discuss. In such a case, health insurance companies would have to offer a basically zero increase in remuneration to all providers. Perhaps there would be a reduction, and we didn't want to allow that. I think we need to ensure some stable health growth, gradual. She's not gonna be a huge party like this. We're talking about a three percent increase in payments. But it is some increase in the future, which simply gives us the opportunity to make this decision, and thus gives us the opportunity to agree between the various segments of health care and health insurance companies in the ongoing conciliation procedure. And of course, we don't know exactly what the parameters will be, what the unemployment will be, what the number of state insured people will be. So it's clear there's a certain degree of uncertainty. But the degree of uncertainty would be much greater if we did not accept this and, in principle, there would be nothing to discuss in the context of the dispute procedure between insurance companies and individual segments. So that's why it needs to be prepared today, or approved today, so that we can build this whole thing a little bit more for sure. I cannot agree with this proposal when it comes to OBZP. I think that this proposal will cost the system about a billion crowns, and that will be the only contribution. The people we're talking about, of course, we can talk about some theoretical cases of individuals. But often they're chronic taxpayers, often they're landlords, rentiers who pay this kind of minimum premium. I have no idea what this has to do with the crisis. I really think there is a minimum for those people who are really affected by the crisis. These are people who are mostly at home, and it really does not compare with the self-employed, people who were actually affected by the crisis, by having to close their business, were limited within their business. This is not really the case for persons without taxable income. Yes, there may be some cases, but I don't think it's really up to us to do a little bit of plugging into a system that's going to be at least one billion, maybe more. So I really won't support this proposal, I don't think it's appropriate. We don't have any signals that they're people who, as was said here, were led against them by executions and so on. They are often also landlords, rentiers who do this for a living. So I don't think it's appropriate, and I don't think this is connected in any way to the crisis. So I really cannot support this proposal for me, and I am going to ask you to approve and support the bill as it was submitted, because I think that the proposal will actually ensure, not only stability this year, but especially stable growth in the next year, in terms of the increase in contributions for state insured persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u31	Thank you. Is President Stanjura applying with priority rights now for an answer? [[Yes.]] Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? [[No.]] It does not, so in that case, President Stanjura and then we will continue the detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u32	A thousand nine hundred seventy - rounded two thousand a month, times six, twelve thousand, times 60 thousand inhabitants, to which this applies, is 720 million. [[Nesroz.]] That's not a billion or more. First of all. Secondly, I don't want to believe, and I don't know the statistics that 59,000 rentiers live in the Czech Republic who only have their feet up and pay for minimum health insurance. From what, Minister, do you think they're rentiers? Here were the specific cases put forward by Mrs Richterová. I agree that they are very often people who live very modestly with small incomes, and you turn it around, that they are renters, the richest ones who do not need any relief in these months. So really 12,000 times 60,000 is 720 million. That's not more than a billion, but it's not even one billion. I'm not saying it's small money, but in that - and I say it's the 28th law we approve - it's small money. This is such an amount in the income of the state budget - I know it is not the income of the state budget - which cannot even be forecasted as a percentage. This is not even an interesting amount within the total income of public health insurance, if we calculate it as a percentage of what it is. Well, I don't see the reason to call these guys rentiers and those who don't deserve any help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u33	Thank you. The minister wants to speak with the answer? [[Yes.]] It is, of course, possible, so we will open the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u34	I don't know where 60,000 people came from. There's over 250,000 of these people. Let's just have some real fun. At least that's the information I got from my colleagues at the Ministry of Health that it's really the 250,000, not the 60,000. But I really don't think these are people who are directly affected by the crisis. In short, the structure of these people is different. I admit that there may be some individuals who are affected in some way. In that case, however, they can also apply to the employment office, they can become state insured people, but I do not think that we need to forgive the insurance contributions to everyone within this group of persons to a minority of people. I just don't think it's systemic in this direction, and I can't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u35	Thank you. With his speech, the Minister reopened the general debate. I have noted some applications - Mrs Richterová, then Mr Ferjenčík... Mr Ferjenčík, please. Five minutes, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to the Minister. What's important is that these people are being pushed to go to the trade agency now, and they've opened up a business, and that's how they got the bonus. All it means is we're gonna get them to pay a thousand grand a crown fee to get some ten thousand state aids. I mean, it's all crazy. Let's give them the same support as the tradesmen. Why should we give up on those who are worse off and support only those who are better off, typically? It really seems to me like it's built up to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u37	Thank you. If... Mrs Richterová still does. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u38	Very briefly. My point is that we're taking general measures, and when we have a group where a large part of these people are very poor, and when I say that, administratively really not fit, that part of them that doesn't officially take care of it, then a large part of them is going to be executed for health insurance. It's the typical group of self-wreckers where it's hard to enforce, the health insurance. That's what the health insurance numbers say. [[16.50 hours]] Then there will be a part of the people who are fit, and they are certainly the ones that the minister spoke of, namely, the landlords of the apartments and those who have just done the tradesman now, have the tradesman, have everything forgiven and are completely calm. I can't imagine a guy who could rent out one or two apartments and couldn't get a business license to get a health insurance waiver. So that eliminates this concern and logically leaves us with the question of whether it's appropriate to simplify it for everyone. Business authorities are saying that we're going to reduce the strain of those who don't need a trade license to perform their not quite paid, but it's a living job -- and that was, for example, an example of the various impact earnings of artists, a man who's been carving something for six months doing some sculptures and paintings, then he's going to sell it shockingly. It's a typical example of someone who can live with little. And I heard from these people, and I heard from those returnees from abroad, so now they're gonna go out and make a living. OK. If that's what we want, that's what it's gonna be. We've put it to you to consider, it's for the House's consideration. It doesn't make sense for us to forget about this group when they're just the able-bodied ones, the able-bodied ones, they're gonna get a thousand-karuna trade license, and they're gonna save 11 grand, that's a clean bill. And the less skilled, so a part of them goes into executions and a part of them goes into big trouble. That's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u39	Thank you. I have to ask again if there are any applications for the general debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. I also have to ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate, but this is not the case. In that case, I am opening up a detailed debate in which I have a single application, and this is Mr Třešňák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u40	Thank you. I will sign up for Amendment 5024, which I justified in the general debate. Furthermore, I did not want to speak to him very much, only to respond to the Minister, which was already done by Mr Stanjura and my party colleagues. So let's just recapture the argument. Indeed, there are no more than 60,000 renters and owners of real estate who rent them. These model examples are also included in the explanatory memorandum and there is a large number of them. Those who are not in such a situation and really will either get into executions or end up in those trade offices and that system will burden them in this way. But I won't discuss it any further, it was in the debate before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-006-003.u41	Thank you. That was the last application at the moment in a detailed debate, so if no one is reporting to the detailed debate, I am ending the detailed debate and I am asking if there is an interest in the final words after the detailed debate. If this is not the case, according to the agreement, I am ending second reading at the moment and interrupting the discussion of this press and the item pending the discussion of paragraph 7 at second reading. Thank you. Opening point
