ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u1	50. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with further electronization of public authorities' procedures /German press 756/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, will be mentioned. Mr. Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear government, colleagues, colleagues, hello. Allow me to introduce a bill amending certain laws in connection with the further electronisation of public authorities' procedures. The bill represents another step in the development of the legal framework of eGovernment in the Czech Republic. First of all, it builds on the new concept of the use of data contained in the information systems of the public administration, which is introduced by the law on the right to digital services. This amendment concerns 144 legislation, which forms part of the provisions with an indication of the data that public authorities can use to carry out their agenda from public administration information systems and which need to be abolished in order to achieve the objectives of the concept. Quantitys of usable data will be newly laid down not by laws regulating individual agendas, but more operationally within the process of registration of individual agendas under the Legal Registers Act. This will significantly accelerate the process of determining usable data and will make the sharing of data based on "orbiting data, not people" more effective. [[10.00 hours]] This will significantly accelerate the process of determining usable data and will make the sharing of data based on "orbiting data, not people" more effective. The draft law also responds to the House's accompanying resolution on the draft law on the right to digital services number 789, by which the House called on the Government to amend certain laws in relation to the further electronicisation of public authorities' procedures, inter alia. proposed rules allowing further extension of the use of the data box system, extension and sharing of data maintained in the basic registers and systematic use of cloud computing in the field of public administration. The Ministry of the Interior therefore amended the bill in the intention of the House's accompanying resolution and at the same time supplemented it with the electronicisation of the petition law, the regulation of the rules of registration in the central register of weapons and the regulation of management rules. name registers in the file service. Effectiveness is proposed due to the link with the Digital Services Act from 1 February 2022. Finally, I would point out that the draft law originally contained other substantive changes, but on the basis of broad political agreement, the relevant provisions were excluded and incorporated into the Digital Services Law by way of a comprehensive amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I will ask Mr Ondřej Profant, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, to take the floor. Quiet in the hall, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u4	Good morning. I hope you're not too scared - he's got 838 pages of printing and he's making dozens of laws. But, as the Minister has already said, the main thing is that in the law on the right to digital service, we have introduced a general principle of access to basic registers, and thus many provisions in dozens of other laws have become redundant, and now we are removing them from these laws so that there is no extra. This law follows up on the triad of digitization laws that we have here, which we have approved by an overwhelming majority. It is a law on the right to digital service, digital technical map and SONIA. These are all things that electronization can't do without, and this is a general press that fixes things that change based on approved laws, plus there can fix some things where there might be some confusion or minor obstacles. So as rapporteur, I have already registered several amendments, most of them are also consulted by the Ministry. I think that maybe there will be a comprehensive consensual amendment again, and I look forward to working together on this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate on this point. This is President Bartoš. Whether it's priority or not, you're next, Mr. Chairman. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister. First of all, I'd like to thank you for having decided to go this way last year. When we started discussing the citizens' right to digital service in the field of the Chamber of Deputies, we knew that in the laws that we have, this new principle that we are introducing, the right to a data sharing service, the granting of permission to share data, that it would change a whole series of laws. In the beginning, we encountered a problem that this step was almost unrealistic. But then, through the members of the government, there was an agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, with the Deputy Minister, with the Minister, and we decided to actually go in those two stages, i.e. to have an umbrella law with the most important principles, and then in this large package to open, and it is therefore called the depot, to open all the laws to which it applies. I would like to say, and for a while now, the law has been good - and I am not calling for any rapid intervention into the laws that are affected by this legislative change - to look again at the issue of digitalisation. At the time of the coronation, it turned out how it was necessary to have the agenda systems, but even the smaller systems connected online. And if we have over the summer, and I believe that, in addition to the campaigns that will lead our parties to regional elections, time and energy, not only in the field of the Public Administration Committee, we could think about where, for the sake of digitalisation, which has proved to be an appropriate tool for simplifying work, living, in individual laws, where we will change parts concerning digitization, granting consent and sharing of data, to do this work even significantly more and, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, to propose amendments, even further improvements. We're getting the so-called approval. digital institutions or the right to digital service said that the overall framework for digitization of the Czech Republic is a year for the catalogue of services of individual ministries and then four years for the digitization of all agendas. But I think that even the coronation crisis should be a challenge for us, and this process should be greatly accelerated both on the legislative side and on the digitization side. Because we're dealing with the future now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u7	Thank you. I am not sure if I have read - Mrs Valachová votes with the replacement card number 17. With priority rights, Mr Stanjura, then the rapporteur, I have registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'll address the Minister directly. I'm sure it's a good way to go, but if we don't cancel agendas, simplify agendas, cancel forms, it's a way not half a step. It's not enough. It's a necessary step, but it's not enough. I would like the government of the last 15 months remaining in this parliamentary term to work towards reducing bureaucracy for at least 15 months. We would like to, and we will discuss this within the budget next week on Tuesday, so that the government can come up with concrete measures to reduce bureaucracy by 10 percent by the end of this year and by the end of next year by 10 percent. Digitalization can be used to simplify citizens' contacts with the authorities, I'm sure it can. But if the paper is still the same, and the only advantage is that I scan it somewhere, sign it and e-mail it, it's just not enough. So it is not a criticism of this bill, but rather a request to the Minister to come up with specific things that will really reduce the bureaucracy. By the way, last weeks and months have shown that many things are redundant, that they were not needed. Other reasons, but they weren't needed. And that you can really reduce the number of visits to the authorities to orbit the papers. By the way, when we evaluate individual government support programs, it turns out that many were unnecessarily bureaucratic and could have been simpler and thus faster.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u9	Thank you. The rapporteur has entered into a debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u10	Thank you once more for the floor, this time as a Member. I think the pandemic has shown us what a digital opportunity is. That really these things can be handled online and that there are really situations where it can be very important. And on the other hand, what hasn't shown us so strongly yet, but where it also has great potential, it can be in regions with worse transport accessibility, and it can help just as much. We saw how painful it was in the field of education. Everyone who's been home with the kids knows we have really, really big reserves. However, we have also seen this in the authorities that the easiest way is to communicate with the data box, but at the same time you have to go to the post office, virtually. We've already voted today that we can set it up through the Portal of Citizens, but it's still not open to ordinary people, and that's too bad. We should seize this opportunity and become the European tiger that goes forward, not just looking at the old bureaucratic processes. [[10.10 hours]] It's about the bureaucratic processes. It won't happen if we don't change the procedure. When we convert paper into digital form, it doesn't change much. Maybe we can send that kind of paper with a data box, but it's not digitalization. Digitization is when we take the whole process and think about how to make it modern, simple and without complications. I think we've seen it beautifully with all the forms on coronavirus, when applicants filled in completely pointless, unnecessary boxes for them, and yet it was easy to do so. As it turned out, the Ministry itself was able to make alternatives to the forms, and it was able to simplify it. It was more comfortable for everyone, including the Ministry, which suddenly received really digital data, not PDF, which is just a mess, not data. We have several amendments prepared for the Pirate Party. The first is an electronic file that we're dealing with in the justice area. My colleague Jakub Michálek is handling this. He's represented this place several times. Again - it is a place where it is possible to simplify the process very much, speed up all proceedings. It is both expensive for the state and psychologically demanding for participants. And the fact that everything's stretching out, that everything's being handed over physically today, it's only really bad for everyone. I will be presenting an amendment on the open interfaces, the so-called APIs, on the agenda information systems of public administration, in order to ensure better interoperability, better communication. Furthermore, we will promote a proactive approach to the publication of information using open data. As I have already said, I have also noted other amendments. Thank you all for always having a very substantive debate with those digitalisation laws, and I hope we can do it again. And I look forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-003-050.u11	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate at first reading on this point? Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. Neither the motion to return nor the refusal has been made, so we will consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion like that here. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 228 registered 175, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another Committee. Is there any proposition from the diaper on the commandment of another committee? If there is no such thing, I state that we have appointed a guarantee committee, and I end the first reading of this press. Thank you. Opening point
