ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u1	220. Report on the performance of financial market surveillance in 2018 /German press 537/ This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 537/1. Once again, I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Karel Rais, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u2	Hello again. This is another of those optimistic reports, the Financial Market Supervision Report in 2018. Since I assume that the Governor will make a more detailed statement, I will just say that the report is essentially divided into two parts - a supervisory activity, where the legislative changes that have taken place in detail, the legal distribution of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, the amendment to the Bonds Act and the amendment to the European Parliament directive - and then it deals with the development of the financial market in a relatively optimistic spirit - a stable development of the banking sector, which had an annual increase in the balance sheet total of the sector of about 4%. And other readings are also interesting. Plus banking entities reached 8 percent of the net profit growth year on year. I'd leave a more detailed description to the governor. I would read here the resolution that we will then vote on, and that is the resolution of the Committee on Budgets from the 27th meeting of 4 September 2019 on the Financial Market Supervision Report in 2018, this is House Press 537. Following the opening words of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr Rusnok, the report by Rais and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament takes note of the Report of the Czech National Bank on Financial Market Supervision in 2018, second recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament takes note of the Report of the Czech National Bank on Financial Market Supervision in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u3	Thank you. I am initiating a general debate. I ask who is interested in speaking in the general debate. Mr Martínek, then Mr Governor, then Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u4	Thank you. I received a letter from the Association of Civil Meetings and Cheating Clients, s. s., and I'd like to quote a few paragraphs from it. The so-called investment life insurance case, with its scope, concerns the order of millions of life insurance contracts. In view of the existing case law, including the precedents of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic or the Court of Justice of the EU, it can undoubtedly be concluded that the insurance companies concerned unduly reduce insurance claims in insurance contracts, unnegotiated costs and other charges, in the order of tens of percent. Similarly, systemic excesses are already apparent when large insurance companies do not act in accordance with their own insurance contracts and, for example, unduly shorten the purchase or breach the agreed allocation of insurance premiums when they divert part of them to the detriment of clients. This is a product widely used to secure pension funds, thus creating a correct environment is in the public interest, even with regard to the tax concessions supported by the State. The preference of the interests of foreign shareholders of insurance companies at the expense of consumers, whether in the form of tax relief or apparent inaction by the supervisory authority, is difficult to defend in the current situation. The defence of consumers themselves is very difficult due to the absence of a collective action institute. In fact, an action under the Consumer Protection Act can only be required to refrain from an infringement, such as an unjustified reduction in insurance performance by unnegotiated costs and other charges for the previously active insurance contracts in question. Such an action against the Czech Insurance and Insurance Company Generali is currently being brought by the consumer associations of the Association of Civil Advisory and Cheating Clients, further actions against other insurance companies based on many decisions of financial arbitrary and general courts will be followed without undue delay. With its scope and impact on the number of consumers, this case is significantly larger than the current H-System media, which has even been paid attention to by the Government or the President of the Czech Republic, certainly for many questions relating to the correctness of procedures and the timelyness of the intervention of public authorities, and in particular the fact that the consequences of the entire case are repeatedly borne only by the damage of clients. The potential damage caused by the infringement of insurance companies is, as a result, greater than the total loss associated with the collapse of all the campels combined. The Czech National Bank is not involved in this IŽP case, launched in fact on the basis of the legal opinions of the financial arbitrary at some point in 2015, at least no activities in favour of damaged consumers are visible. The Czech National Bank only armored itself with silence, despite the fact that it obtained many incentives and evidence of excesses of insurance companies in the management of investment life insurance, bordering and with the criminal plane. At the same time, the Czech National Bank often issues various recommendations and warnings against entities acting to the detriment of consumers, but not in this case. The whole communication of the Czech National Bank gives the impression that, in this case, the primary aim is not to impose an excuse on the consumers concerned to solve the problem. The Czech National Bank is obliged not only to supervise the stability of the insurance market, but also to protect the interests of consumers. This does not, in our view, happen, despite the number of millions of insurance contracts, which, according to hundreds of decisions of the financial arbiter and according to dozens of decisions of the courts, are invalid only partially, because the type contractual arrangements are invalid copied into individual versions of the insurance terms. This is a systemic problem with potential damage in the range of tens of billions of crowns with an impact on insurance companies' management and financial stability of the entire insurance market in the Czech Republic. Then there are the questions to be followed by the letter, and I would also like to ask how you intend to address the Czech National Bank case and what measures the Czech National Bank has taken to avoid the collapse of the insurance market. The letter further mentions that insurance companies are granted significantly higher fines abroad than e.g. in the Czech Republic. In addition, I would like to ask and mention other problematic parts of the financial market, such as the things that we have already pointed out as pirát, namely CFD contracts, so-called. differences contracts, which are often offered as investment services, and they are said over the phone that they are e.g. risk-free, etc., which, of course, can pose risks to clients who are then cheated when they lose the funds, e.g. on the basis of inappropriate instructions given by the person. The same current problem that is happening is risky corporate bonds, which sometimes even in tens of percent of interest rates are offered to clients, which, of course, creates enormous potential because it is a very risky product, which is not known to the client himself, even it can be not only a risk product but directly a fraudulent intent from the start. In some cases, the problems of risky mortgages are also addressed, etc. So I would also like to ask about these possible problems in the financial market, and how the Czech National Bank deals with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u5	Thank you. Governor Rusnok has the floor, then Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u6	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me get back to the report. It's a 2018 report, but we're sure to send you a 2019 report during spring. As the rapporteur has already said, the sector has in principle developed very positively during that period. Of course, we did our surveillance work as a standard. From the point of view of banks we supervise directly 23 domestic banks, 5 building savings banks, respectively. including 5 building savings banks, 10 cooperative accounts and, to a limited extent, we also supervise 27 branches of foreign banks. As far as the insurance sector is concerned, there has also been an increase in gross premiums written of 2.7 per cent, the total market then represents 155.5 billion. The profit also increased by 3.2 billion year on year. to a total of 14 billion. As regards the insurance sector, the Solvency Requirements were well above regulatory - solvency exceeded the Solvency Requirements reliably. We supervise 26 domestic insurance companies, one insurance company and partly 20 branches of foreign insurance companies. In the defined scope also partial way Czech office of insurers and EGAP, i.e. State Export Support Insurance Company. [[15.30 hours]] As far as pension companies are concerned, the total number is 8. Together, 28 participating and 8 transformed funds were managed. The total assets at that time of 2018 amounted to 470.3 billion. and recorded approximately 4.4 miles. participants in the system. As far as the capital market is concerned, we supervised 37 entities that were authorised to operate a securities trader, 30 investment companies, 138 investment funds with legal personality and 242 mutual funds. We also supervised the exchangers. The activity there is very active, because it is, of course, a media-thankful topic. There has also been a change in the law that gives us much greater powers. We also supervise payment institutions, institutions and publishers of electronic money, providers of small-scale payment services by investment and insurance intermediaries, intermediaries and providers of consumer credit, as well as processors of domestic banknotes and coins. Of course, last but not least as regards consumer protection, this is an integral part of the exercise of supervision, where we focused our attention primarily on unfair business practices towards consumers, the fulfilment of financial market operators' obligations to deal with professional care, and we examined, in particular, the shortcomings in consumer information. I will not speak to regulatory matters, these are the things that are going through the House. If you don't mind, I would have responded to Mr Martínek's questions. Well, cheating clients, the investment life insurance initiative. Of course we are dealing with this, we are also in constant contact with financial arbitraries and relevant insurance companies. I think that insurance companies have a number of things on their products that have sold in the past - I would like to stress that they are products that have been sold in the past, more ancient past for a rather different legislative constellation than they are today, especially in the field of insurance mediation. So, of course, these institutions are aware of a number of the problems in some contracts. It is also clear that, under pressure from both the regulator and those specific cases that have already appeared and have already been, if any, decided either by the financial arbitrary or even by the court, the insurance companies also, of course, regulate their commercial policy. As far as products are concerned, they have been modified a long time ago, as required by the legislation, i.e. especially in the direction of their higher transparency, so that the person is informed in advance of what the product means. It is also crucial to get full and timely information to those clients when selling those products during the mediation process. That thing isn't black and white. Here are a number of judgments of different courts, especially regional ones, because these are mostly regional levels in these matters, are different in very similar cases, so it is obvious that it will have to end with some unifying Supreme Court judicature, because the situation is simply ambiguous. That's the first point. Second point. We as the CNB are not an authority competent to resolve private disputes, that is, an insurance company versus a client, if it is essentially the enforcement of some kind of compensation or something like that. We, of course, ensure that insurance companies behave in a standard, predictable and professional manner in the field of products that they generally offer systemically. But we cannot decide any particular dispute between the client or the client, and that is why we are relatively, I would say, cautious in giving some fundamental judgments in those particular cases, because we are not a party to the dispute and we also do not want to be involved in the dispute by any clear statement that would not be supported by general and valid facts. So it's a dispute that's going on, we'll see how the disputes continue at each level of the courts. As for the other matters mentioned by the Member, the contract for differences, corporate bonds, of course, we are proceeding exactly according to the legislation and competences that we have. This means, for example, for bonds, if they are bonds that are sold on the public market and meet the relevant parameters of the law, they must be granted the status of the corresponding investment documentation plus so-called. the status of the bond that we have to approve, but the approval is basically formal. This approval does not tell the future bondholder that we guarantee that the business project will be successful or not. Contract for difference, here it really occurs to offer sometimes these very risky derivatives essentially from abroad entities that are often not registered in the Czech Republic. We regularly draw attention to this. This information is always traceable on the website of the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u7	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Thank you to the Governor of the Czech National Bank. We will continue the debate. This is Mr Patrik Nacher. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u8	Good afternoon, thank you for your word. I will follow up on the communication we conduct as a subcommittee on consumer protection with the Czech National Bank. This is the issue of investment life insurance, so I take advantage of this opportunity, which is ideally suited to the report on financial market supervision. We sent a letter to the Czech National Bank, which is said to have happened for the first time in history, because we have nothing to ask or to do, but I think the principle is that the issue of the investment environment is simply on the ground and it will concern and concerns thousands of contracts, perhaps millions in the future. A short tour, and at the end of it, the question will be fundamental. Investment life insurance was created around 2000, replaced capital life insurance, and thanks to the way it was designed to commission up to two years of insurance, up to 10 million such contracts were sold over some eight ten years. There were some things called rewinding the contracts, i.e. After four or five years, those financial advisors re-sold the contract to the same guy and re-upped the commission. In relation to this, of course, part of what the Governor has said is true. However, here I would like to say that it has some inertia. Yes, perhaps in the form in which it was sold between 2005 and 2015, let's just say, it may not be in that form today. I'm sure there's no commission payment. That's changed by law. Even the product is so controversial for me that it provoked the legislator to change the way the commission was paid. However, there is some inertia and the damage on the client side and their complaints do not cease. So even though the I.R.P. might not be IŽP it right now, when I say it like that, of course, the stuff that's stored in the past is there. [[15.40 hours]] By the way, that is why I will soon propose to abolish the tax advantage of this controversial product and why we will soon have here an institute of mass lawsuits, which will unite what the governor said, that the courts here decide differently in similar, similar cases. Since 2014, the relationship of clients with insurance companies has also been in charge of the financial arbiter, which, when you look at it, almost half - when I last looked - the capacity is devoted to the product of investment life insurance. We discussed this several times on the subcommittee. We also had representatives of the Czech National Bank. Those things that are obvious to this product and which are problematic are basically three. There is no risk component, there is no information for the client at the beginning about the amount of the fee and at the end, at the moment of any severance payment, so the severance payment is always reduced by exactly 15 percent for some insurance companies, as it was found. The current district courts in Prague have already decided in several dozen cases in favour of the client, as in several hundred cases they decided in favour of the client and financial arbitrary. So my question about the CNB is in relation to the surveillance. I understand that you can't solve problems between clients and insurance companies in individual terms, but as an authority responsible for supervising insurance companies, where, in total, the amount of complaints and litigation could actually go into billions, so it could actually be a problem. And I'm going to follow up on the debate that we had here about tightening up on mortgages, where the main argument was prevention, so that's what I'd like to ask you. As in the previous point, where I supported the CNB's proposal on recording, where it also goes to some extent according to the argument about prevention, so I would like to ask what the Czech National Bank has done in relation to the insurance companies concerned by the problem, namely the reduction of severance payments, in particular that there is a lack of a risk component in the insurance contract, which is absurdity, so what preventive steps the Czech National Bank has taken since 2018, when the topic has been simple here, was public, as it has prepared, as it has prepared for the future, because, as has already been said, the problem with investment life insurance, although it does not have to concern current contracts, currently offered contracts, so it is here accumulated in large order and for the future it would be a problem for the financial market, depending on how it will develop, could be. So here I would like to ask the fundamental question of what steps the Czech National Bank has taken in this area in terms of prevention in relation to these insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u9	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher. I have no other application for a debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. The governor applied, then the chairman of the Pirate Party Club. Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I will try to answer the honourable Member. We're really dealing with this. It's not that we're rejecting it, what it might look like from some correspondence that's being bombarded by the respective association. I don't doubt it. The association may have benefited from this thing on the one hand, on the other hand it also did not benefit because I think that many insurance companies were prepared to heal some of their sores from the past quite a generic way, but when they found themselves under pressure, I would say organized groups, so maybe they got a little scared and took a more careful and defensive stance. But that's not the point. I totally agree. We are drawing some general conclusions from this. Luckily -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u11	Mr. Governor, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. If you are discussing a subject other than the exercise of financial market supervision, please in the foyer! I mean it so I don't have to dictate you into the protocol of this point. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u12	Yes, thank you. Legislation has also changed in the meantime, not only in the mediation itself, thanks to you. I'm really glad about that, because the insurance market, and I have a personal experience with it, was probably the biggest Eldorado that still survived here in the retail financial market. Today it is not possible, because there are clear judgments of the Supreme Court to offer life insurance without a risky component. It's just not possible today, and it's clearly a disqualifying parameter. That's one thing. The second thing is about what's standard again today. At the beginning, the client must be reliably informed of the costs associated with the product, that is to say, what are the charges, what are the various deductions, etc., and this also applies to the situation where he withdraws early from the contract and the so-called severance payment will be paid. These are elementary parameters no longer allowed by anyone in the contracts, and of course we ensure that the products look like this, but also that the products are sold in this way as well, because the buried dog often lay in that quality and may sometimes still appear in the quality of distribution. So we are dealing with this, we are not parties to private disputes and we do not want to be, and we are prepared to give the competent authorities of the House, the subcommittee or the Committee on Budgets even more information about the case from our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u13	Thank you, Mr. Governor, for your answer. Before Mr President with a factual remark, Mr Patrik Nacher. Before I give him my word, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. For health reasons, Andrea Brzobohatá and Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes to the Minister and Vice-President of the Government Alena Schillerová and Jiří Kobza. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u14	Thank you. I thank you for the answer, I would just like to underline, I have also said - these are not the contracts that are currently being offered, both from the point of view of the commission, which is divided in five years and from the point of view of the design of the life insurance, even if I recall, so sometime in 2014-2015 the Czech National Bank banned this product from being sold as its kind of savings. No, my question was going to those accumulated contracts that were there from the past and that were just there. Now I don't mean those that have already been banished and rewinded, but now I mean the ones that those people have there, where they've been promised 6 percent a year, they'll be insured etc., we all know it, and if they decide to quit, then the severance pay for some insurance companies is just reduced, somewhere there's really no risk folder, I saw a contract where there's zero, somewhere there's ten thousand, it's completely absurd. So I'm talking about this thing, that's the problem that's accumulated from the past, and that we're going to have to face in some way. Of course, those measures that I was talking about here, like that institute of mass lawsuits and all that, that's the result of those people rightfully associating, because those cases are similar in this case, the contracts are like a copycat, which means that I think it's typically part of the collective lawsuits institute. But that's the stuff that's gonna be dealt with in court. But we're talking about the role of the Czech National Bank right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The chairman of the Pirates Club, Jakub Michálek, will now perform with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Governor, fellow Members, I wanted to speak first on the part concerning the exchange operation and thank the Governor for the cooperation that we had with Patrik Nacher in 2018 when we actually dealt with this issue in detail and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we proposed an amendment to the Exchange Act. And I wanted to ask the Governor if there are any information that there have been a decrease in the number of complaints in connection with this measure that we have made in the Chamber of Deputies, in contrast to a relatively high number of about 30 complaints, which were in particular in connection with those inadequate courses, let's say, in the centre of Prague, where the problem exchange offices are gradually being liquidated. That's the first question. And my second question will follow up on the issue that my colleague Patrik Nacher was talking about. Unfortunately, I also have a very bad experience selling these investment products. Because I got some contract on some life insurance or similar accident insurance, and after five years of savings, when I took 72,000, I already have $25,000 worth of money. Don't answer that! Very convenient. And don't be mad at me, I'm, I'm, I'm a literate lawyer, which means I'm able to get through the contract, but I'm not entirely literate enough to be a super economist to understand the details. And to understand what this is all about, you have to be both a lawyer and an economist. But those people who could really do this in detail, they're human units, dozens tops, I'd say, in this republic. And the trial, if it's handled, it's gonna be months and years. So this is a very complex issue and I believe that the regulation of the state in relation to information -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u17	Mr President, I will also interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace. There's a lot of noise here, and if we don't appreciate each other anymore, at least let the stenographers work. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u18	So I think that if any area regulates, in relation to the transparency of this business, I think that's just the conclusion of such contracts. Because if I was actually introduced to this product as "this is a great product, you put 72,000 in it and you'll have 25,000 and we'll insure you for the injuries," I'd probably change my mind, and somehow I'd be able to sort it out. So I would like to refer, at least as part of my superficial familiarization with modern trends in economics, to a methodology called RECAP, which Richard Thaler writes about in his book Pouch, where he describes basically what the rules of regulation of long-term activities such as savings should be. It says that in some way it should be simplified as much as possible so that the person who enters such a relationship gets just one paper with capital letters, which will be in a standardised form, in which the minimum number of officials will participate, will undergo some testing on the average citizen of the Czech Republic, who will understand, by reading it Orientally, whether the product is suitable for him or not. Because the way information is being communicated at the moment is completely inadequate. And it has to be simply standardised, it has to be explained by the concepts that this person normally understands, and not by looking for them on page 77 of the insurance policy, which, moreover, changes during the contract. So that there are those basic financial indicators, those numerical parameters that are relevant to the consumer's decision. So I think we should tighten the regulation here to help consumers make informed decisions, which is clearly not happening today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u19	I thank Mr Michálek. Before I give the floor to Patrik Nacher's actual comment, I'm stating an apology from today's meeting. From 16 a.m. to the end of the day, Monika Jarošová apologizes. Mr. Ambassador, you now have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u20	Thank you. I would offer my colleague Jakub Michálek here when he said he was a literate lawyer, a financial literacy course. And the first step is that I will give him, when I leave here, the book End of financial illiterates in Bohemia, which I wrote about the IŽP product in 2015. That product, actually, when you look at it, even a person doesn't have to be financially literate. I'd stand up for the CNB here, because it's like three in one. It was sold as savings, investment, insurance, an instant product that actually makes it easier for you to go to insurance companies, to the bank, everywhere. It's all in one place, like having instant coffee. You don't have to prepare anything around, it's very simple, but it's not much to drink. So I guess that's what it's built on. That means, unfortunately, if you look at the history, it was given by the fact that the consultants were selling it more often than, say, pension insurance, because that's where the commission was from the start, and it wasn't here. That means, luckily, all of this has changed, but the problem is, and that's probably what we all agree on, and that's where the questions point to the governor, that even if it doesn't happen in that form and intensity today, it just happened in the past, and here are the millions of contracts. And now it's necessary - it's really in the air like the coronavirus - that means what's going to happen to it and what the CNB is doing to prevent it. I'm talking about prevention because that's what we're talking about, and that's the main argument with the tightening up on the mortgages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The Governor of the Czech National Bank is still reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u22	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear House, I apologize to Mr Nacher. I forgot that part of his question. Yes, as far as the one called prevention is concerned, to call it forward-looking caution regarding insurance companies, of course, that is of particular interest to us, and it is also our main task to ensure that those insurance companies are sustainable and that we have not gotten into some turbulent development. We're evaluating it on an ongoing basis. We do not think that the risk of potentially losing litigation in these individual cases is that it should endanger the solvency of insurance companies. So far, there's no indication. Of course, insurance companies also have their own capital solvency planning. They also create reserves for these poorly predictable events, and this also applies in principle to large insurance groups with very strong foreign shareholders. So the market should definitely not be more stressed about it. That'll be the thing we're testing. We're testing it at least twice a year with those insurance companies, and we're going to keep testing it, of course. That's for sure. So I think we agree. This thing is actually developing in time. We, like you, have an interest in making the market work effectively. In order to be able to function effectively, all its participants should, as far as possible, be in an equivalent or balanced equal position. Mr Michálek. Yes, the currency exchange - it employs us very much. However, I think that thanks to you, in cooperation with you, we have done a great deal in advance. We're withdrawing licenses. Unfortunately, administrative law is complicated, it takes some time. Now it turns out that in those affected exclamation institutions in Prague the biggest problem is that a number of these really fraudulently based, or I would say fraudulent business-case-based exchange offices are located in the buildings of the capital city of Prague, so it is also necessary for them to take care of eventually. Because, given the general legislation of the Civil Code and corporate law, we are not able to prevent them from recycling each other all the time. They already know they're gonna quit, we're gonna withdraw their license, but they already have another box ready, that's s.r.o., on basically some "tribal leaves," something like bearer stock, where we're never able to track down the real owner. There is a white horse residing in Ukraine or in eastern Slovakia, and the whole roundabout begins again. Of course, we're going to check right now, the administrative procedure starts right away, but unfortunately, it's going to take months again. [[16.00 hours]] I think that's what Mr Nacher said for me. The situation has really changed. And I think there's such a good old principle that you shouldn't buy products that you don't understand at all, what it's about, what it's doing, what it's for. And I think that would solve some of these collisions here, but today the client's situation is much better from the point of view of his information, and we will certainly continue to work on that as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u23	Thank you to the Governor of the Czech National Bank. And now a factual remark from Mr Jakub Michálek. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u24	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to the previous speaker, Mr. Governor. I wanted to ask if he could send me some information in writing, where he thinks there should be an initiative from the capital city of Prague. I will then turn to the capital city of Prague with the list of objects in which there are problematic exchange offices. If I am informed, Prague is taking some precautions and several exchange offices have already been liquidated in this way, but if there are any problems, I will be happy to focus on it. And I also wanted to ask you if you have any knowledge that administrative proceedings under the Administrative Code are not going well, that you need to deliver them effectively to entities overseas, that they have registered offices and the like, if this complicates these proceedings, because I had such knowledge in the building procedure, for example, so I will ask if it is possible to hand it over to us in any way so that we can deal with this when the administrative rules are open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before we go any further, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, for which reason Mr Krejza apologizes. [[Nesroz.]] Now, Mr Jan Lipavský, also with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very interested in the Governor's contribution, when he actually described that the Czech National Bank had a problem in its regulatory performance because white horses were entering the system. This means that this was an example of Ukraine or eastern Slovakia. So I'm wondering if the Czech National Bank is planning to prepare a law change so that the white horses don't get into the system or make it harder for them to enter. That's an absolutely crucial thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u27	Thank you. It wasn't a factual point, but I'm a tolerance myself. Mr. Governor reporting. You have your word, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u28	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear House, that is a general problem, I am not a lawyer, I apologize to lawyers, in my opinion only an estimate, civil law and corporate law. On the other hand, we must not spill the baby with the bathtub. I understand that for certain types of business, we're okay with having an e-shop with stocks, i.e. tribal leaves. But it is the small edge of the financial market, which is not significant in terms of financial stability, it is rather a question of some reputation of the Czech Republic and especially the capital city of Prague. And because, of course, law today makes it possible for a currency exchanger to have an esero, that's okay, and that's where, of course, we recycle such a similar one - it's a total minority, but, of course, that's where we fight. We know we're going to ban one, we're going to withdraw the license, and he already has five boxes of this type, he's going to meet the formal terms for a currency exchanger, which is okay, that they're more or less formal, because it's not a business that should be terribly tied up by some over-regulation, but in this particular case, it's going to be a problem. I just want to explain it to the public, because it's also in the media, why it's taking so long and how it's actually happening again. But I say it's several listed cases in exposed places in Prague. And we will continue to step on everything we have in our hands to eradicate it in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u29	I thank the Governor for his response. I don't have another application for a debate, I'm asking who's applying from the scene. If I do not see anyone, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. I am opening up a detailed debate. The rapporteur is reporting in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u30	I was asked to make one more resolution so that it would be formally okay, procedurally. Decision of the Budget Committee of the 27th meeting of 4 September 2019 on the Financial Market Supervision Report in 2018, House Press 537. Following the opening words of the representative of the Czech National Bank, the Governor of Mr Rusnok, the report by Mr Rais and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament first takes note of the Report of the Czech National Bank on Financial Market Supervision in 2018; secondly, recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament takes note of the Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2018'; Instructs the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution. Which is what I'm doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-003-220.u31	Thank you. Before I conclude the detailed debate, I state an apology, because of the illness Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes. You have heard the motion for a resolution. The Committee on Budgets recommends that the Chamber of Deputies take note of the Financial Market Supervision Report in 2018. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna go on, 'cause I asked some noisy groups to discuss in the lobby, so I'm gonna wait for those interested in voting to come to the hall. On the motion for a resolution, taking note of this report, we will decide in the vote number 68, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. [[- No, it's not.]] I can't, just one more time, now. The vote number 68 has been launched. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 68 out of 126 present for 110, against no one. The resolution has been approved. Thank you to the Governor, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point No. 220. The next item is paragraph 221. I thank you as the Governor of the Czech National Bank . Jiří Rusnok, so the rapporteur, Mr Rais, has stayed at the rapporteur's table because paragraph 221 is
