ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on Firearms and Firearms (Gunarms Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 92/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, will be mentioned. Please, Vice-President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will be very brief because, firstly, this law, according to the press number, has been here for a long time, and secondly, it has been widely stated in the first reading. So let me just remind you that this is an amendment to the Arms Act, which implements the very well-known directive of the European Commission, and I want to say that at this stage I want to thank all those who participated in the fact that, thanks to the law that we discussed at the second reading, we have made it possible to implement this directive, I hope, into our legal order so that it does not have a significant negative impact on the shooting public or anyone else. So much for my opening words, and at the same time I'm reporting for the debate in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u3	Okay, thank you. I'm registering your application for a detailed debate, Mr Vice-President of the Government. And I am of the opinion that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Security Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 92/1 and 92/2. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Jana Černochová, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As has been said here, the Guarantee Committee was the Security Committee. He discussed the bill and issued 8. 7. 2020 resolution delivered to Members as press 92/1, when they suspended the hearing and set a deadline for the submission of amendments and asked the Minister of the Interior to submit draft implementing legislation. At its 41st meeting on 24 September 2020, the Guarantee Committee on Security adopted the following resolution: Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the introductory words delivered by the First Deputy Minister of the Interior JUDr. . Jiří Nováček, following the intelligence report presented by the rapporteur of the Committee Mgr Jana Černochová and after a general and detailed debate: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on firearms and ammunition, so-called Act on Weapons, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, House press 92, agreed in the wording of these amendments - which I will once again introduce to you in a moment and as a comprehensive amendment to the committee I will also read. II. He instructs the Chairman of the Security Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - which has happened. III. She hereby authorises the rapporteur of the Security Committee to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Now, colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to the very extensive changes that the committee proposes to adopt. The Committee's comprehensive amendment aims to preserve and protect, as far as possible, the rights of legal holders of arms. These are the following changes: Supplementary transitional provisions and determination of so-called maximistic grandfathering, i.e. extension of the time limit for assessing whether or not the existing legal arms holder of the Directive applies from a fixed date of 13 June 2017 to the date of entry into force of the draft law in question. While this is a procedure which is contrary to the revision of the directive, on the other hand, compliance with the directive's requirement constitutes the so-called directive. true retroactivity, which we consider unacceptable in the Security Committee. Furthermore, there is a continuation of the validity of the arms licence for ten years, with the fact that after five years it will be carried out so-called. health check. Next. The sound dampers of the shot should move to category B and introduce the possibility of issuing permits for their acquisition and possession upon acceptance of these proposals. Remove the noctovizors from the forbidden accessories of weapons. The next adjustment is to punish the D-licensers in cases where they forget to deliver a medical certificate in time, which are, if I put it layly, they're pros. Newly, they will no longer be threatened with two offenses, but only one consisting of failing to come to the doctor and giving a medical opinion. [[15.30 hours]] The existing inflexible, spaced and illogical adjustment is replaced, which complicates the organisation of sports shooting activities, as well as professional or commercial presentations of weapons. Here the emphasis is increased on the responsibility of both the person who entrusts the weapon and the person who is entrusted the weapon. At the same time, however, it opens up a circle of cases where the gun can be entrusted. Another change is that the committee proposes to introduce a simple model of weapons destruction within the competence of the state. The holder of the weapon or businessman shall be sufficient if he hands the weapon over to the relevant police department, and the weapon will subsequently be destroyed free of charge by the Commission, or eventually used for museum or scientific research purposes. Another change - amendments to the Act on Weapons, which mainly affect persons engaged in the reconstruction of historical battles and similar cultural and souvenirs events, are added. Furthermore, the current legislation on the transport or carrying of weapons at these culturally historical events, which is largely no longer in line with normal practice, is aligned. According to the proposed changes, it should be possible, in particular, to transport weapons to such events visibly, or to carry out historical demonstrations of the type of parades of historical military technology, static demonstrations and the like, which are now largely in the legal vacuum. The proposed legislation also effectively legalizes the visible carrying of weapons, for example, within biathlon races, of course, athletes. The law proposes to add clear basic technical and organizational requirements to the shooting range and establishes the clear responsibility of the person carrying out the shooting in violation of the operational order of the particular shooting range. The Committee also agreed that it proposed to add an introductory paragraph to the proposal, according to which - now let me quote it exactly as we have read on the committee: "The right to acquire, hold and carry a weapon is guaranteed under the conditions laid down by this law." It is, of course, meant by the arms bill. In addition, the Committee proposes provisions which would, in short, allow the negotiation of reciprocal recognition of authorisations to carry a weapon for personal protection purposes. The Committee also proposes to adopt an adjustment - if a public authority enforces a ban on entry into its official or other protected premises, it will allow its holder to deposit a short weapon in accordance with the law. Last but not least, the Security Committee proposes a so-called weapons amnesty. Weapons amnesty measures have a considerable tradition in domestic arms management legislation in the civilian sphere and have long proven to be a very effective tool for reducing the number of illegally held weapons among humans. So much justification for this complex amendment, which we tabled to the Committee on Security and worked on in the group Černochová, Ondráček, Mašek, Kobza, Pavel Růžička, I hope I have not forgotten anyone, colleague Kolářík. Indeed, even the amendment that has become a comprehensive amendment - I would not have left Mr Birke out. [[Ambassador Birke is responding from the bench.]] All right, but ČSSD representatives had their representation there. So once again, I thank my colleagues that we have once again found a rare consensus on how to mitigate the directive so that it does not really touch the shooting community in the things they feared. Once again, I would like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, who have formed an opponent to our some amazing, some less amazing ideas, when some of us, in good faith, may have tried to load things, which then proved that they might be contrary to some international law. So thank you to all those who helped with it. And then at the third reading, when we have all the amendments that will be heard here today, I will prepare the procedure as rapporteur so that, of course, you have the opportunity to express your opinion in a completely transparent way, as we agreed with the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček. So much for me and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Jana Černochová, for the detailed report. I am opening a general debate. Mr Radek Koten is the first to sign up. A colleague Jaroslav Holík will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u6	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. The Czech Republic, as one of the few states, respects the citizen's claim principle for obtaining a weapon, the so-called gun card, after fulfilling strict but clearly defined conditions. Once again, as one of the few states, the Czech Republic recognises the protection of life, health and property as a reason for holding a weapon, and in this principle it also subjectes the relevant provisions in the law. The SPD defends these right principles and will defend them. However, in order to maintain the current state of affairs, it is necessary to avoid the possibility of misuse of the right principle of obtaining a weapon by a foreigner residing in the Czech Republic in such a way that, in justified cases, based on intelligence intelligence, police may refuse such a foreigner to issue an arms licence, even if otherwise it would comply with the statutory tax terms. Unfortunately, according to the current wording of the law, which is almost 20 years old, and now European law will still be implemented, in the case of foreigners from NATO and the EU, it is possible. However, over the last 20 years, there has been a significant change in the demographic structure in Europe and an increase in the risk of weapon abuse by foreigners who do not identify with our European ranking. An even more warning example is Turkey, which has changed from a secular state to a very aggressive state threatening Greece in particular, the occupying part of Syria, supporting and profiting from Islamic terrorism and committing vile crimes in particular the Kurdish population, now also in Armenia. In this state, it is absolutely necessary that the Police of the Czech Republic have the right, in justified cases, to refuse to issue an arms card to a suspected foreigner, and it cannot be accepted that the Police of the Czech Republic will be obliged to make mandatory decisions that will enable our enemy in our country to have access to legal weapons so that he can subsequently use them against our citizens and this country. I will justify these attached proposals and, therefore, I will sign up to them in a detailed debate. It is therefore two alternative amendments, with the following point X1 being added after point 26, in the first amendment to the first part of Article 1 of the draft law - amendment to the Act on Weapons: "In Section 18, paragraph 1. point (b) is deleted and points (c) to (f) are referred to as points (b) to (e).'; [[15.40 hours]] And then there's the second amendment. This is the wider version, which is led as the House's 6180. The previous one I just said, that's 6179. That is to say: In the section in Article I of the draft law - amendment of the Act on Weapons - point 26 is added to point X1, which reads: in Section 18 para. 3 is read: "The competent police department may issue a decision which will not comply with the application for an arms licence if the applicant is a foreigner, even if he fulfils all the conditions set out in paragraph 1. This Decision shall not be appealed against.' I've basically read the reasoning just now for both of these proposals, and the prints are being read in the system under these House prints. [[Documents]] Press 92, which amends Act No. 119/2002 Coll., was processed by the Ministry of the Interior immediately after the adoption of the amendment to Directive 9177/EEC in March 2017. The text, on the basis of the European Union's dictatorship, introduced a new categorization of weapons, in particular the extension of the range of weapons prohibited and the introduction of registration of impaired weapons, was therefore an amendment to the implementation process and, at the same time, addressed some of the problems of the current arms law No. 119/2002 Coll. - for example, interfered with the so-called prohibited accessories of weapons, silencers, noctovisors and so on. When discussing the Government's Legislative Council, the text was returned to the Ministry of the Interior for recasting, so that it contained only the implementation part, with the fact that other necessary changes in our legislation will address the new comprehensive legislation for this area. This was therefore a purely implementing amendment, which we are unfortunately obliged to accept as a result of the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon, even if it adversely affects the rights of our citizens, the security of our country and ultimately our sovereignty. The approval of this Eurodict has become so politically unpopular that press discussion 92 has been postponed in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic for a long time, despite the fact that the Czech Republic's request to postpone the obligation to implement the final judgment of the European Court of Justice on the action brought by the Czech Republic against the amendment to the directive was rejected and finally the Czech Republic's action itself was rejected in December 2019. [[has been]] The judgment of the European Court of Justice is a mockery of law and common sense, but it fulfills exactly what the SPD imagines as a new European law, a law which we thought we had disposed of in 1989. Following our expected anti-law speech in the form of a judgment of the European Court of Justice on our action and taking into account that, as of December 2018, the Czech Republic has been led by an infringement for failing to implement the amendment of the directive within the prescribed deadline, i.e. until September 2018, it was clear that Members would have to take a clear position on press 92. The vasal position of the Czech Republic within the European Union does not allow for non-application and the press 92 to refuse as such without the need for the Czech Republic to be economically ruined by the need to pay extortion in the form of sanctions imposed by the European Union. From this point of view, it should be noted that political votes both here in the House and in the political debate requiring the rejection of implementation can only be taken fair and honest if they simultaneously propose a solution which is, of course, only the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union. However, such an attitude represented, as far as I know, only the SPD. Other speeches rejecting mandatory financial, sanctions enforceable by implementation are therefore only dishonest political populism and must be warned against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u7	I thank Mr Radek Koten. And now, Mr. Jaroslav Holík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am looking to see if any of the ministers are here, so I do not have to... [[Minister Hamáček calling from the news table.]] I'm so sorry. So, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the armed forces, gun holders are hunters, sports shooters, collectors, but a large part of them are also holders of the arms license, who hold the gun for personal protection or protection of their property. These holders are currently facing pressure from the European Union to limit these weapons, but they also want to limit their owners. I would like to pause here at the 92 Parliamentary Press, which is currently facing this pressure on subordinates. The reason for reducing the risk of a terrorist attack is what the European Union is telling us here. But I am convinced that the truth is the complete opposite. The absolute majority of crimes and crimes are committed by illegal weapons. If we restrict the rights of a free citizen and prevent him from being able to defend himself actively, then we will be at the mercy and mercy of the criminals, and we will only become sheep that are led to slaughter. However, if a terrorist knows that his potential victim can put on an active resistance, he will often reconsider his actions. Our SPD movement considers legal possession of weapons to be a prevention of security. Ladies and gentlemen, none of you will dispute that Switzerland is a democratic country. And you see, almost every man has a weapon in his personal possession, and crime is the lowest in this country. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, let us reject this pointless proposal by the European Union and support the amendments made by our fellow Members. Let us maintain the fundamental right of man - the right or the opportunity to defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And Mr Jiří Kobza's factual comment in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say my opinion that by these amendments, the House is doing what it has to do, that is, protecting our honest citizens against restricting their rights, because what has been said here by the previous speakers has been about the overwhelming majority of the gun owners who are in charge of the permit, the weapons license. But let's not forget that there's a large set of gun owners who are not registered, whether they're different replicas, foreheads, butts, replicas of historical weapons, but they're also powerful sports mechanical weapons, sports bows, sports crossbows, which, of course, go beyond what they say in the novel. So I am a great supporter of the amendments. I think they're right, in the right place. And we should support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I ask who else is reporting to the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] Not even the rapporteur. So we can move forward and we will discuss the debate in detail, which I am initiating. It is registered by Mr Radek Koten. I merely recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u12	Mr President, I have already made a statement in the general debate, and I am now reporting to the House of Documents 6179 and 6180.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u13	Yes, that's the reason, and that's what it sounds like. Please, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. The Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček are now reporting for a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u14	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is held in the system as number 6207. It contains the necessary press changes 92 in the light of a directive adopted in the meantime by the European Commission laying down technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons and an implementing directive laying down technical specifications for the marking of firearms. So it's a response to the legislation adopted in the meantime. Detailed reasoning is part of this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-003-005.u15	Yes, I thank the Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček, and I ask if anyone is still reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. I am also ending the detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. This is not the case, and I can also end the second reading of this press, point 5, print 92, because there was no proposal that we should vote on after the second reading. I thank the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. Thank you to the rapporteur, Jana Černochová, and I finish point 5. [[15.50 hours]] And we'll continue. We will basically return to the original order of the meeting when we proposed these two points as priority points at 14.30, which we fulfilled. And we have a point number in front of us.
