ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u1	4. Government information on the purchase of protective equipment during emergency conditions I ask one of the government's representatives to take the floor. I have no resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic to be who... I'll do it by the hierarchy. Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček is the Minister of the Interior. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make this point briefly. I'll speak for the Home Office. I suppose the Minister of Health will fill me in. And I'm going to refer you to the Ministry of the Interior's website, where there is a regularly updated table showing how many protective equipment the Ministry of the Interior has purchased and how they have been distributed to each collection point. For information only: to 27. 4. the Ministry of Interior purchased 8 695 800 respirators, 59 321 000 drapes, 1 199 100 protective glasses, 1 159 000 protective suits, 245 000 protective shields, 1 590,000 protective covers, 900 full face masks CM6, 6 100 filters T3R and 1 097 530 rapid tests. The total amount paid by the Ministry of Interior to date for these deliveries was CZK 3,900 million. So much input information. And, of course, I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u3	I'm asking the Minister of Health if he wants to fill in the question of purchases for the Ministry of Health. Yes, it is. We continue with the second opening word of the Minister of Health of the Government of the Czech Republic. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, for the Ministry of Health. We are, on the basis of the Government's resolution of 9. 3. they were also given the task of centrally purchasing, especially for the Health Department, for directly managed organizations of the Ministry of Health, i.e. state, faculty hospitals, regional sanitation stations, public health authorities, i.e. the State Health Institute, Health Institute in Ostrava, Ústí nad Labem, as well as laboratories that test on COVID-19. So especially as to hospitals. We also supply materials for field doctors, practitioners, outpatient specialists, dentists and pharmacists, so basically we cover the health sector as such. The Ministry, on the basis of the Government's resolution, created an operational purchasing team that operates at the Ministry of Health, both from the Ministry's employees and from representatives of hospitals who are experts in purchasing. This shopping team started working as soon as possible and already 13. 3. we had the first delivery of respirators and drapes especially to hospitals. Respirators especially FFP2, FFP3, drapes and so on. As Vice Prime Minister Hamáček said, the Ministry also has published figures on how many we have delivered to individual regions and, of course, mainly what items they are. This is also on the site where data are on the development of disease COVID-19. Regularly every day there are updated items from respirators, drapes, gloves and so on. I don't think there's any need to put it all out here, specify. Anyway, this is traceable, which means everyone can find out how many protective equipment and products the Ministry of Health distributed. The total amount for which we are ordered as the Ministry of Health is around CZK 4.9 billion, with about CZK 2.3 billion being paid so far. Of course, there are orders that are still running out of time. We as the Ministry of Health submitted a resolution to the government last week, on the basis of which the Ministry of Health ended this operational purchase on 30 April, because we really considered it only a temporary, operational solution, which the Ministry actually managed, that is, we secured the supply of hospitals at the critical moment when there was a threat of objectively massive pandemics, the expansion of pandemics within hospitals, which would be a complete disaster, because we know that, for example, in Italy and other countries, what was the biggest problem was if health professionals were infected and those continued to spread the disease within health establishments. So that's what we managed to do with urgent shopping. Hospitals are now secured in this direction, those key, spinal hospitals of our system, as well as other, regional sanitation stations and so on. That means, at this point, the Ministry of Health is closing the purchases at 30. 4. with the fact that, as I mentioned, we have orders that are still running out and will take place in the coming weeks. Our supplies are now set for the next two months, that is, May and June will be covered, as we have stored in terms of distribution, protective equipment, meaning hospitals will receive protection from the Ministry of Health in this regard, although we will no longer buy them for the next two months. And what we're counting on is that then, in the course of these two months, it would be a transitional period if we wanted to set up a new system for hospitals to start buying their own protective equipment, because that's the standard way. This operational solution through the Ministry of Health was really only temporary, but hospitals and other providers should switch to a standard supply-customer relationship regime, because unlike the situation that was at the beginning of March, or even in mid-March, when the situation was very critical and basically these protective devices were not available at all in the normal market and it was very difficult to obtain them, so eventually we succeeded, and then the situation gradually calmed down, so today the market is already created, even the retail market when I have the opportunity to monitor, so today it is possible to buy drapes, respirators. So the situation really is better in this regard. And we think that hospitals should start shopping separately, even if they can join together in some sort of clustered central purchase. But as I was saying, the ministry at the end of this month, that means 30. 4. Central purchasing shall be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u5	I thank the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, and I open a debate in which, according to the agreement, Mr Ivan Bartoš, the first Member to take up the intelligence work, and Mrs Pekarová Adamová, second. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u6	Good evening. I won't be long in my speech. I had the speech prepared for the previous meeting. Unfortunately, the break didn't get to him. I'll take it easy. I'm actually glad that the Minister here said that the Ministry of Health is shutting down the central purchases, because what we've witnessed was not some healthy competition or an effort to see who can actually deliver the necessary items, the medical aids. That was rivalry. We could have watched the rivalry as soon as the pandemic in the Czech Republic began to be dealt with and the expected Central Crisis Staff was not established. Just at that time, Prime Minister Babiš usurped the right to comment on the matter, to speak on the matter and to play the resolution as a media presentation of the ANO's ability. When it turned out that the situation was not sustainable, because the crisis crew was needed, the crew was set up. However, according to the assumption that the head of the Central Crisis Staff will become the Minister of Interior of Hamáček here, it did not. The head of the Central Crisis Staff was appointed by Mr. Deputy Minister of Health Prymula and the situation was dragged further. [[20.30 hours]] It was easy. That's when the big game was played. Whoever arranges aids that were not in any lasting benefit in the Czech Republic at the time and in some permanent perspective, because it is not really in the tens of thousands or twenty thousand, but millions, becoming a savior, becomes a hero. And because it has succeeded - and I do not want to address today purchases that have been made through the Ministry of the Interior, and I do not want to address the role of Mr Tvrdík in this matter. I want to talk about buying the Ministry of Health. And since Hamáček can't - I'm sorry to use that word, but I'm going into Prime Minister Babiš's rhetoric - Mr. Hamáček can't shame the Ministry of Health here. I'm worried that somewhere in the background, say the name, there was no command: you just have to buy to have numbers too. And why do I think that? I have intersected the Minister on this matter. He hasn't answered me yet except for, say, a guy's tweet. Because even from the data available, our analysts and investigative journalists, on the other hand, began to explore what companies the Ministry of Health is buying from. Based on this last week, we initiated the SAO and the FAO. I'm glad this thing is going to be saved. I randomly chose companies that we see as the most problematic. RECEA PRAGUE s r. o. The company's executive is faced with 18 executions for over 3 million. He lives permanently at the Office of the City District of Prague 5. The activity of this company is the sugar industry, among other things, and the sausage industry. De Sol investment s r. o. The owner of the company lives in Belize where it is no longer possible to identify the owner. It is not at all certain who controls the company, but the government was obliged by 10 January 2020 at the latest to establish a public register of real owners to prevent such cases. The executives of this company are led by eleven execution proceedings and it is clear from the media interview that the director does not have an overview of this company and is controlled by someone completely different. And I can go on. LA Factory s r. o. The empty company, which last showed zero sales at the public deadline, had no employees. Despite this, the Ministry of Health ordered protection aids for 1.2 billion. Crowns. Batist Medical a. s. The company sent the Ministry of Health respirators FFP2 for a record amount of CZK 866 per piece. This was around the time when the Czech market was said to buy the organization for CZK 100, so it is too expensive, the unit price at the moment of delivery from the Ministry of the Interior was around CZK 65, if I remember correctly. Reality World s r. o. The manager of this company, which operates on the real estate market, was the largest sponsor of the ANO movement in 2017. I don't know if this bond is purely random. He dedicated the 650 thousand movement at the time. Crowns. The company has become a supplier of FFP2 respirators for the Ministry of Health. I don't know if the list is final, but I think it's enough now. And the person whose money the government is dealing with and the ministry is justifiably asking how this could happen, whether it was happening or whether it was some kind of new standard of management. It's not really a competition to supply the respirators, to supply the equipment. Indeed, even in the event of an emergency, I definitely have to look at the unit price, to address the quality. And I'm hoping that the tests that we ran on the ordered medical aids won't prove that some of the certifications, it turned out to be in other countries, aren't appropriate. Although the respirators met the standards of classic tests, they failed at the moment of adhesion, I hope all this will be investigated in the SAO investigation. So I still have the questions of the Ministry of Health in this game, because there we have analyzed the biggest problems that were the option in the game, why this happened, or if it was a combination of two variants. Both of these variations are alarming. So was it necessary to flash, that even the Ministry of Health, although the purchases were already secured by the Ministry of the Interior, must flash and really have the numbers, also have the table? The second option, which I cannot at the moment deny, nor confirm, and I believe it will be investigated, that this was done with the knowledge of the people who were on the team, who was constantly on the line, that it was like an auction, the minister described it sometimes very dramatically, it was with the knowledge of the team of people who worked at the Ministry. That's also wrong, of course. If it was a combination of both, there is no need for further comment, the matter needs to be examined. If I were to quote the head of the SAO, he said in that statement last week that he did not exclude criminal charges from the matter. I think that the taxpayers' money, which is managed by ministries outside of crisis and in crisis, needs to be dealt with economically and there is no excuse for someone to buy at 20 times the standard unit price that is standard at that time. And checking to see if there's a price to buy, that's elementary, what you have to do before you sign an order or release money somewhere. So I'm glad the Department of Health is backing out. It's obviously Mr. Health Minister's managerial failure on this matter. And I hope that justice will be done, and the things I've named, or any other problems will be investigated and corrected, and the people responsible for this will be held accountable in fact, not just a rhetorical apology somewhere for the media or for the people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bartoš. And now, Mrs Pekarová Adamová and the Minister of Health. Both with priority rights. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it is late, but this point concerns several billion crowns of public money, so it is certainly nothing trivial, and therefore I think we should pay attention to it. Central purchases of protective equipment accompany doubts from the very beginning. The absolute failure of the government to secure aids in the beginnings of the emergency situation replaced the ceremonial welcome of Chinese aircraft instead of the government supporting the Czech economy by buying aids from solid Czech manufacturers or distributors. When, as opposition, we called on the government to buy aids from Czech producers, we certainly did not mean what is happening here often now. Trading with companies with dubious backgrounds or unclear structure. Although the Ministry of Health has published a call on its website on 13 March calling for all manufacturers, importers and distributors of personal protective equipment to make themselves known with a specific offer, it cannot be defended by the impression that it was an eye-only challenge. From information in the media that is based on the recording of mail communication, or rather non-communication with the Ministry of Health, it is clear that the Ministry of Vojtěch did not show much interest in Czech producers or distributors, but not all of them, just some of the selected ones. For example, businessman Miroslav Krajíček offered the Ministry of Health masks N95 and N100 including the price offer. He thus responded in good faith to the statement by Minister Vojtěch, who, at a press conference on the lack of medical material in the Czech Republic, defended himself with the words "colleges, calling on all suppliers, the market is very tense and must act in the order of minutes, it is very action-like on the stock market, I believe it will improve" Colleagues were apparently fully employed by calling suppliers, so they overlooked the growing offers from Czech suppliers. Mr. Krajíček was not discouraged and sent other e-mails - without response. The answer was received at the fifth e-mail almost a month later. But not many would have such patience. [[20.40 hours]] Information from the media over the last weeks confirms that the cases of Czech entrepreneurs who unsuccessfully offered their assistance to the state are much more, whether they were deliveries of respirators and drapes, or for example. about the thermocams offered by the Czech manufacturer to the Ministry of Health in January this year. Instead, the Ministry bought cameras from a Swiss company that imported them from China. Why the government prefers Chinese deliveries to Czech entrepreneurs, then summarized Vice Prime Minister Hamáček in already legendary tweet: Because I can't collect it from tens of thousands of suppliers. We could have thought that the government's inability was behind all this, but the news of the last few days has changed the message of the matter. The media reported that the Ministry of Health purchased protective equipment at several times higher prices than the Ministry of the Interior. And this is confirmed by the analysis of the Supreme Audit Office. According to the SAO president Miloslav Kala bought e.g. Respirator type FFP2 one Ministry for 34 crowns and the other for 636 crowns, or protective suits one Ministry bought for 15 crowns and the other for 371 crowns per piece. We do not now know what is behind such high price differences, but if the lowest price is decisive, this difference is really alarming. We know that the SAO will examine everything, but I think that the Chamber of Deputies would deserve an explanation of these differences now, and the representatives of the government and the ministries mentioned now have the opportunity to do so. However, so far we have learned only numbers that are publicly known, but neither of the ministers has touched these particular differences in his speech. There's more to the doubt. The iROZHLAS server, which was based on the tables directly mentioned, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior, from the register of contracts and also from the database of the National Electronic Instrument, has also mapped them very closely. Of course, I understand that we are in an emergency situation where we need to react quickly and that the health material has been scarce all over the world. But it's also out of the question of who the Ministry of Health was buying from. It went, for example. about the Ostrava company Reality World, whose sole owner Jakub Koudela was the largest sponsor of the ANO movement in 2017. The company was established in 2008 and its main activity is real estate services. It follows from the latest available data for 2017 that the company recorded a profit of CZK 44,000. It was this year that its sole owner, Jakub Koudela, sent CZK 650,000 as a sponsor of the ANO movement, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. He has now concluded a contract with the state to supply respirators for over CZK 5.4 million. As well as businessman Miroslav Krajíček, Mr Koudela himself approached the Ministry of Health with an offer. However, the ANO sponsor's e-mail did not end in spam. Even more dubious and serious is the trade between the state and LA Factory from Lanškroun, from which the state bought protection aids for CZK 1.24 billion. What is striking is that according to the commercial register, the company has not shown any sales in the past and had no employees. It's obviously an empty box. Another 300 million were spent by the Ministry on respirators from De Sol investment, which has a hidden owner in a tax haven in the Central American state of Belize. The company rejected the offer, for example. Poland, but also the Czech Ministry of Interior. I could continue with such examples. Protective equipment was also purchased by the Ministry of Defence, which e.g. On 16 March bought 2,000 respirators of FFP3 for 423,50 crowns per piece with VAT. On the other hand, the Ministry of Interior bought the same class respirators on the same day by roughly 240 crowns cheaper. Other protective equipment purchased by the Ministry of Defence in March was several times more expensive than those purchased by other authorities. Although the Home Office has been buying cheaper in some cases than other ministries, there are also doubts. Currently, e.g. she discovered that Jaroslav Tvrdík, a member of the ČSSD and President of the Joint Czech-China Chamber of Mutual Cooperation, became a motor of purchases of protective equipment in China. He had along with the Vice-President of the Liu Jielei Chamber, I apologize if I didn't pronounce it correctly, allegedly deciding what goods will be loaded into aircraft that travel between the Czech Republic and China as part of the air bridge paid by the Ministry of the Interior. They could thus become a barrier to the Czech suppliers of protective equipment, who offered their assistance to the state. The main argument of Minister Hamáček was that the Czech Republic buys exclusively from producers, not through distributors. However, according to the analysis of Sinopsis, this was not the case in all cases. There's a suspicion in six companies that he was a fence. For example, the company Liyi Trade Limited registered in the Hong Kong Register, which received an order from the Ministry of Interior for delivery of CZK 113 million of Respirators FFP2, was created in the autumn of last year with a registered capital of CZK 33,000. Her sister company trades e.g. with alcohol and tea. And another Chinese supplier of the Ministry of the Interior, and here I don't know if I can pronounce it correctly, Huasheng Tianjin Technical Development, is mainly a dealer and developer of components into mechanical devices. So if I sum everything up, there are many question marks floating over government business. The government has the opportunity to set things straight. What role did Jaroslav Tvrdík play in the process of purchasing protective equipment, who, according to his words, received a commission to purchase directly from the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, and what role did the Joint Czech-China Chamber of Mutual Cooperation, which Jaroslav Tvrdík is president of? How were these companies selected? With regard to the lowest price, why do individual ministries buy identical goods at prices with a 20-fold difference, and why does one Ministry buy goods at prices at which another Ministry refused to buy them? Did the Department of Health check the background of the companies he deals with? I'm sure we won't be satisfied with the answer that it's more active than on the stock market. It's obvious there's a way, but there's no other way. Or maybe she just doesn't want to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u9	Now the Minister of Health, then the Minister of the Interior, and I see Mr Leo Luzar's application. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, that's what we needed. I'm sure a lot of people already know how to do it better. I'm sure they would have bought millions of respirators from standard companies at the time. But it just wasn't. You need to realize the timeline. I don't want to evaluate and comment on the Ministry of the Interior, but the first person to be tasked with arranging the supply of protective equipment was by decision of the Government Ministry of Health - 9. 3. It's already 13. 3., before the arrival of the first aircraft of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health introduced really purchased respirators FFP2, FFP3, mouthpieces to hospitals. I'd just like to remind you what the situation was at the time, because I feel like memory's kind of fading away, and suddenly, they're all hugely smart, like they'd do better. I'll remind you of a few headlines: Doctors are impatiently waiting for respirators, they don't have them yet. The drapes and respirators are still missing, they don't want to work on the X-rays without them. There are no drapes and respirators in the Czech Republic. Great hospitals have a supply for a few days, those smaller and practical doctors almost none. The drapes are desperately missing, and we don't know when they will be, reports a part of the hospitals... Then, of course, the great opposition: the government has failed completely to find a drape, claims Chairman Fiala. With bare hands against coronavirus. Paramedics desperately lack protective equipment... [[20.50 hours]] So I could go on like this. This was the current situation around mid-March. This was the situation where we suddenly faced a really huge risk of a situation similar to that in Italy. I repeat again what happened in Italy, what was the main problem, that were not protected by health professionals and that pandemics spread within hospitals from patients to medical professionals. There were about 6,000 paramedics infected in the first phase. So in this situation, when the disease spread in a massive way not only in China, but in Europe, we were assigned to buy protective equipment. Do you think there were any standard customer-contracting relationships back then? Do you think we were so stupid that we didn't reach out to the standard companies, the standard manufacturers of these protective equipment, such as 3M and the like, that we didn't reach out to the standard distributors? We weren't that stupid. Indeed, in that first phase, we approached these standard, established companies. Problem is, they didn't have a respirator or a drape. They weren't able to deliver anything. And why weren't they able to deliver anything at all? Because they mostly had goods abroad, and at that time the situation was such that the goods were disposed of, say, or detained in the territory of those states, because the states gradually banned exports of respirators and other protective equipment from their territory. We had - and maybe the case, you remember, and that's maybe what President Stanjura said here at the previous point that I lied then. No, I wasn't lying. We had a lot of orders that were actually ordered from standard suppliers, from standard companies that certainly had no weird background. They were standard protective equipment distributors, and the vans just didn't arrive. They were millions of masks, respirators. You may remember, we also talked about it, Alliance Healthcare, one of the three largest distributors in the Czech Republic, the standard distributor of medical material, we had ordered, I think, 1.2 million respirators, 2.5 million masks. It didn't come at all because it ended up somewhere on the road in Rotterdam, I think, or whatever it was, it just didn't work the standard channels. And in such a situation, of course, we have declared, as President Pekarová told Adamová, on our website, that we should be heard by various suppliers who are able to offer and secure the means of protection. There was a clear address, I must say that my colleagues had thousands of emails there, so I can't rule out any of the emails just missed or got to it later. But I also have one thing to say. We have a total of 100 different suppliers as the Department of Health. So if there are still four companies going around, when we have 100 companies that we have arranged, we have orders, of which twenty Czech producers - I can read them here when we are talking about Czech products - twenty companies, twenty Czech companies, Czech producers who supply the Ministry of Health. They are mask manufacturers, 3D masks that were created at CTU, a great project, we ordered from them of course these semi-masks. DINA-HITEX, maker of drapes, Moldex, Nanologix, Okula Nýrsko, maker of protective glasses, and so on. I don't want to keep you here, but it's just 20 Czech manufacturers that we have ordered from. So it is not true that the Ministry here ignores Czech producers when 20 out of 100 suppliers are Czech producers. And here, of course, we're still talking about four companies. So what were we supposed to do? Should we have formed an ethical code in two weeks? Maybe that's how the pirát would do it. We'd be making a code of ethics that we'd be looking into those companies, and in the meantime, the pandemic would have gone to hospitals. Our main concern was to ensure the protection of the paramedics. That was the only task, the only interest. And if the company was able to deliver those respirators to us, and it should be said that we only paid after the products were delivered, so that we could verify and test the products with the products in question at the Labour Research Institute, we're testing every sample, every delivery, and if that respirator doesn't pass by testing, then we just won't pay it. That's why our prices may also need to be higher, because we don't pay in advance, we pay after delivery, obviously I don't still deal with transport and so on, that's another question, and of course the prices are higher, but on the other hand, the advantage of this solution is that we can test the products, and if they don't pass the tests, we just don't pay them and tell those companies to take them away. Among other things, it is also an example of two of the companies you are talking about. Del Sol, or whatever the company's name is, I'll admit I don't even know the companies, because that's what the shopping team at the Ministry handled, that's one of the companies we just canceled the entire order, because the products just didn't pass the tests. They didn't pass the tests, they failed completely, instead of 95 percent filtration efficiency, they're about 50 percent, which, of course, is a total slump, so we wrote to the company that we're stepping down, we're canceling. So you have to look at it really that way, not what we ordered, which is, of course, very media-thankful, looking at orders, but what we really paid for. So did RESEA. Do you know how much we paid that company? We may have orders for 300 million. So far, we've paid the company CZK 12 million. Everything else failed the tests, and of course, then we canceled the products or the orders and didn't pay. So let's look at this really factually and objectively, not politically, not medialy grateful that we're just buying here for hundreds of millions. We really need to see what reality is. That's why I don't like the fact that something's comparing right now, something's being evaluated. It should be evaluated at some distance when it really shows how much we ordered, how much we really paid, how many deliveries we got, what passed the tests and so on, and then we can do a really objective evaluation. Not based on just orders that aren't paid because we always pay after delivery, and if it just didn't pass, we canceled. So I just don't know what the problem is. Yes, we've been looking into the companies in terms of the time possibilities we've had. I must say, it was often a matter of a few minutes. Before we made the order, the company - I'm not talking about these companies now - called us that it simply sold the goods elsewhere. She sold it to Italy, sold it to Spain, etc. That's just the way it was. That was the situation at the time at the beginning. Of course, in time, the situation calmed down, improved, we have more time to compare the offers and so on, but in the beginning, at the time that hundreds of e-mails went to the ministry, hundreds of phone calls from desperate paramedics, hospitals that said they wouldn't work if they didn't have protective equipment, so the team that he worked there worked very hard, worked there 24 hours seven days a week, so he really did the best to ensure protection for the paramedics, and he didn't figure out if there was any Mr. Vomáčka or anyone who had a warrant. We've been looking into the companies, if they're in the insolvency register, the companies themselves, if they don't have the state's VAT bills, we checked that, of course, and those companies did. But who was behind them - and I confess that I don't even know any Mr Koudelka or Koudela, the sponsor of the YES movement, and I don't give a damn. My point was to secure the paramedics' protective equipment. That was the only target. And if the company, if it was able to deliver in a short time at a reasonable price at any time, we just signed the contract with her and ordered the goods. It was just our job to protect the paramedics. So we should have told those doctors who called us, "I'm sorry, we're still checking out the companies, we're still comparing, so you have to wait, you have to wait until we deliver the products, because we still have to check everything here"? There was just no time for that at the time. And it's just what you're evaluating, how you're actually saying, what happened and what didn't happen, how we've done wrong, that's what's being evaluated really now, and it's sitting there completely - after the battle, every general is. But at the time, the situation was completely different. And now I don't want to judge the Ministry of the Interior, I'm sure the Minister will say that himself. We simply progressed perhaps in a slightly different way, yes, maybe some prices were more expensive, but it really was at that time the maximum possible that we could have achieved at that time. Then, of course, the situation has improved, and now, when you look at how many respirators we buy, how many gloves we buy - it's always fascinating to me that we have tens of millions of different protective equipment purchased here, and they always poke four companies out of 100, and now they're being dealt with, and it's not really working out, because we paid those companies the very minimum of what we ordered. [[21.00 hours]] So let's evaluate this really objectively. I think even within a really time frame. Let the bills be made, let them simply settle the accounts when the situation is really resolved. We don't have a problem with it, let it be controlled. I don't have any problem with that. But it's just that at this time, based on data that are simply incomplete, which changes every day, it's not entirely fair. And I have to say that I would like to thank all my colleagues at the Ministry of Health who were there and who worked there, who actually worked there 24 hours seven days a week, not for themselves, but for ensuring the protective equipment for the paramedics. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-004-004.u11	Thank you, Minister. Your performance, however, has put me in a very unpleasant procedural situation. I can't give the floor to the Home Secretary, because here is Section 53 para. 1 and no one proposed an extension of the negotiations after 21 p.m. until 21 p.m. Of course, there is nothing I can do about it, so I must interrupt this point by interrupting it in a debate where Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, rapporteur Bartoš, then colleagues Luzar, Lipavskýý and Černohorský, if I have correctly noted this. I am also interrupting this meeting indefinitely, with the fact that I call on Members' Club Chairs to conclude an agreement on Tuesday, 5 May, which we would then implement as we continue this meeting. Yes? So have a good evening and good night.
