ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u1	23. Government Bill on the Collection of Laws of Territorial Autonomous Communities and Certain Administrative Offices /German Press 575/ - First Reading Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u2	Thank you. Let me present, as part of my first reading, the Government's bill on the Collection of Laws of Territorial Self-governing Bodies and certain administrative offices. This draft law aims to remedy the shortcomings of the current legislation of the publication of the legislation of local authorities and the legislation of administrations with other than national application, which are not published in the Collection of Laws. The current laws make the legislation of the local authority subject to a declaration, which is carried out by posting the legislation on the official board of the municipal authority in the case of municipal regulations or publication in the Journal of the Regional Laws or in the Collection of Laws of the City of Prague. In addition, they require the relevant laws of the local authorities to send generally binding decrees and regulations to the competent supervisory authorities. The publication of laws by administrative authorities which do not have national competence is regulated in legislation in a fragmented, disunified and vague manner and the current regulation thus shows shortcomings in relation, in particular, to the constitutional principle of the availability of law, that is to say, the recognition of the law by its addressees and does not ensure that the addressees of these legal standards are informed to an extent that, in view of the current state of information technology, could be considered optimal. The proposed solution is the establishment of a Collection of Laws of Territorial Autonomous Communities and certain administrative offices, the administrator of which will be the Ministry of the Interior. The collection will be publicly accessible and it will be a publicly accessible electronic information system. Anyone will be able to use these databases and create a comprehensive, modern database in which it will be possible to look up and learn about the content of the generally binding decrees and regulations of all local authorities in the Czech Republic, and the collection will also serve to declare the laws of the administrative authorities that are not published in the Collection of Laws, as well as to publish some other documents relevant to the performance of the public administration, which are still being published in a fragmented manner, and there is therefore a need to use a number of resources to find them. This proposal is accompanied by a draft amendment of several laws, which currently contain the rules of publication of various legislations which are not published in the Collection of Laws, and this draft amendment law has a print number of 576 and it is another printing in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u3	I thank the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Kytýr to present his report. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, as the appellant has already said, the aim of the bill is to establish a Collection of Laws of Territorial Self-governing Bodies and certain administrative offices as an information system for public administration. Generally binding decrees and regulations issued by local authorities and regulations issued by administrative authorities are published in the Collection of Laws. They shall publish acts provided for by this law which arise in the exercise of the powers of local authorities or in connection with that exercise. The administrator of the law collection will be the Ministry of the Interior. The collection of legislation will be free of charge and freely publicly accessible in a way that allows remote access. The proposed bill removes the lack of access to the right by its addressees. The result of the introduction of a collection of legislation is the achievement of a condition where it is guaranteed that the collection of legislation actually contains all the applicable and effective legislation of the local authorities and the statutory legislation of the administrative authorities. For this purpose, the proposed conditional entry into force and effectiveness of the legislation by declaring it in the central collection of legislation, as well as imposing an obligation on the author of the legislation to insert all existing legislation within a transitional period of up to three years into the collection of legislation under sanctions for the expiry of its validity. In relation to the state budget, I would like to mention that the cost of creating a collection of legislation can be assumed to be CZK 12 million, the cost of operating the system, including its further development, would be approximately CZK 5 million per year, the personnel costs are estimated at CZK 2 million per year, a total of 7 million. I would like to conclude by asking and recommend that this Chamber of Deputies be released for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u5	I thank the rapporteur, and before I open the debate, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 16.30 Mr Radek Zlesák and from 18.00 pm Mr Jiří Běhounek for work reasons. I am now opening up a debate in which Mr Stanislav Grospič is the first Member to join. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not delay long, and I will not propose, avision, neither rejection, nor a return to recast. I would merely like to allow myself to express some doubt, because there has been a constant practice of issuing generally binding regulations for local authorities in various intensities, and I understand the need or attempt to make a summary register where these provisions would be available, where they would be made available centrally, to all, and that this is also a certain conclusion with which the Constitutional Court argues. I would like to say here that the conclusions of the Ministry of the Interior, where error rates are mentioned in relation to the number of checks carried out in these generally binding regulations, are not entirely relevant because there are also things that are being challenged by the Supreme Administrative Court. But what I don't think is really in the picture is the price calculation that talks about the amount, I think, of 25 million, that it will serve to establish this register and will be completely sufficient. I think it will be a much wider problem and that there is not completely treated the range that will concern individual local authorities, whether they are municipalities or regions So this is what I wanted to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u7	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. Now the next party to the debate is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the aim of the amendment is to clarify the publication of generally binding decrees by newly publishing them in an electronic collection. The municipalities are now publishing their legislation on the official board of municipalities or regions. In general, we agree with this intention, and it often explains the decree that has just been issued. However, it cannot be agreed that the decrees which will not be published in this collection will not be valid. Nor can it be agreed that the effective decrees already have to be published in this collection additionally, on condition that, if this does not happen, they will cease to be valid. Nothing such a Constitution requires, and in addition, these regulations have already been lawfully published. This seems to be a disproportionate intervention in constitutionally guaranteed rights to municipalities and regions. The aim of the bill can be agreed, but not under the conditions laid down in it. In addition, it would be good to try the publication of the legislation of self-government in this collection first, and only then to impose a strict obligation under threat of invalidity. At this point, it is not clear whether or not this electronic collection will work and how much it will cost. For the reasons set out above, we are reviewing an amendment which would modify the conditions for the publication of the legislation of the body in the collection in a constitutionally consistent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Kovářová. I have no further application for a debate. Yes, I see. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u10	Hello. We support the creation of a collection of local authorities, but I would just like to point out that if we were to run the methodology properly, how to do official plates, we really do not have to deal with this. If the official plates were provided with metadata, they could be monitored centrally, etc. Unfortunately, I think that in this Ministry of the Interior did not do a good job, official records are still just a very random collection of PDF documents or printed documents, and thanks to this we need to develop a special system, which can be well, but I think this should have been dealt with much earlier by standardization of official records, so that they carry real information, and not just such a mortar (?) data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-006-023.u11	I thank Mr Ondřej Profant. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. There was no motion to return or refuse, so we can deal with the motion for a commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Public Administration Committee, regional development as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 71, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of: Who is against? Thank you. Voting order number 71, from 133 in favour of 82, against 0, was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration, regional development as a committee on guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. In that case, I can say that we have discussed the first reading. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and the deadline for committee discussions remains 60 days. At the end of point 23, we'll start with the point
