ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended /German press 791/ - shortened negotiations With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek, before I give the floor to others with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only technically until the record, there were ten people against it when you read the result of the vote, not zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u3	Yes. Thank you for supplementing the log. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe before my opening word, I can ask at this stage for the governor to be present before I speak the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u5	You can ask, it would be appropriate for one of the members of Parliament to adopt the proposal. I see Mr. Kubíček's volunteer reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am making a proposal for the presence of the Governor of the Czech National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u7	I will immediately vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the Governor of the Czech National Bank being present. I'm sorry, now. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 82, registered 91, for 87, against no one, the proposal was accepted. Madam Secretary, please go ahead and welcome the governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u8	Thank you. Hello, Mr. Governor, hello, ladies and gentlemen, once more. Let me briefly state the Government's bill amending the Act on the Czech National Bank. As has been said in the first reading, the amendment brings about the most important changes in two areas. The first is the extension of the heading of monetary policy instruments as well as the circle of entities with which the Czech National Bank can enter into free market transactions. The current wording of the law is very restrictive, today it allows the central bank to buy a government bond only from banks, branches of foreign banks and cooperative accounts. For other counterparties, the Czech National Bank is limited to securities transactions only on the money market, i.e. to transactions with instruments with maturity up to one year, in addition only for the purpose of adjusting the money market. For example, it cannot buy government bonds with a longer maturity than one year from insurance companies, pension companies or other institutional investors who normally hold government securities. The consequences of the emergence and development of COVID-19 disease in the pandemic will certainly affect financial markets, including the Czech Republic's sovereign bond markets. Nor can the situation be ruled out when the Czech National Bank's activities on these markets will be absolutely crucial. At the same time, the price level development and the central bank's need as a monetary authority cannot be predicted at the moment to respond adequately in fulfilling its main objective of price stability management. On the contrary, it can be assumed that entities other than banks will also need the provision of liquidity by the Czech National Bank, and these entities may have different securities as possible collateral for liquidity assistance from the central bank. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the Act is not quite right to restrict itself to trade in state securities, but it extends the range of monetary policy instruments as well as the range of entities with which the Czech National Bank can enter into free market transactions. These looser lines for central bank transactions correspond to adjustments in other countries, including rules for the operation of the European Central Bank. The second, no less significant area is the addition of the Czech National Bank's authorisation to set a legally enforceable upper limit for selected credit indicators concerning consumer loans secured by residential real estate. Both of these changes were discussed in detail on various platforms, so I will not return to them as part of the opening word. I would ask, therefore, if I may now come from this place, Mr President, to speak here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr Ing. Rusnok. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u9	Thank you. The Governor is enrolled in the general debate. At this point, however, I must add that the Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill has been ordered by the decision of the President, has discussed it and has adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 791/1. I will now ask Mr Jiří Dolejš to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u10	Yes, thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of Monday's budget committee, which probably does not have a surprising structure, because on the first point, it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill. Secondly, it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a detailed debate on all parts of the law, while also proposing that it terminate its negotiations on this point no later than the 18th hour of today. I think it's manageable. And on the last point, he recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that she agree to this point today. If I were to conduct you in all brief with the peripeties that the Committee on Budgets went through during the discussion of this press, I would probably start by saying that this proposal is actually part of a more comprehensive proposal that the Czech National Bank has been trying to discuss with the Ministry of Finance in the House for about five years. During this parliamentary term, the press was born 532, let me remind you. This press, which is currently at the stage of second reading and which, of course, was written in peaceful times, apart from this issue, which is being treated by press 791, has a number of other problems there, including the famous limitation of mortgage loans. The moment when the so-called The coronavirus crisis, the government decided to create this press by taking over part of the 532, which comprehensively regulates the passage of monetary instruments and business operations of the Czech National Bank, and therefore decided to discuss it in an accelerated procedure in the context of legislative emergency, which we decided a short time ago. Given that this is an intervention in the legal regulation of the position of the Czech National Bank of a basically systemic nature, there was a significant discussion about this, especially in relation to this discussion and press discussion 532, because this press is in due process, and it is difficult to blame it if it passes through any parliamentary majority, anything in terms of process, constitutional etc. Here, a moment ago, we heard that this excluded passage should include a limit to the end of next year, which was one of the conditions that was formulated in complex negotiations, which took place not only on the board of the budget committee, but there were three videoconferences to which representatives were sent, spokesmen, experts of the various parliamentary factions. On this negotiation, I have the point that, of course, the ambition has been expressed to discuss this precisely in relation to an extraordinary situation, but only if a compromise is born that does not disrespect what we accept is born. Because let's just say that credibility in the world of finance also has its value and challenge output, political attacking these outputs would not be the happiest gift at the beginning of this matter. [[9.20 hours]] In fact, a two-way agreement was promised. That is the term already mentioned, and the second thing that actually the participants agreed that they were not bothered by the number of partners for the business operations, and that remained the only point that was problematic, and that is the list of instruments that would be used. Let me put it roughly that everyone has accepted the idea that if the government needs to expand its fiscal space in its emission plan, it must cover the issue of a relatively large volume of government bonds, so it will also be good from the point of view of the price of those bonds, in terms of the good thing, if the money is as cheap as possible, so that the Czech National Bank will be in the back of this transaction. [[Nesroz.]] This, after all, has already been achieved verbally by the fact that the markets suspect that this could be the case, because the relatively large volumes that have already been implemented in recent days have been implemented without this amendment being adopted. So this assumption has its merit. So part of the opposition demanded that we agree that we limit the list to state papers only, or to papers that have some share of the state, and we quietly buy out from anyone, not just the state itself, but including mutual funds, insurance companies and so on and so forth. But that means that other instruments would be eliminated, and here the debate has not reached consensus. It must be said that it was announced in those discussions, in those videoconferences, an amendment. It was finally processed but failed on the budget committee. So I assume, or I already know that his modified version is being read in the system, and we'll probably still be talking about it. Perhaps the last thing that makes sense in this matter is that the very important parameter is, to what extent, if we extend it to the other instruments too, the Czech National Bank will become some sort of trash can for less valid, I do not want to say directly toxic assets, because, of course, those who will have the ambition to sell their securities in this way in order to obtain liquidity, so, of course, the quality of those assets can be different. The answer here is basically such that even for the Czech National Bank, it is important to ensure that it should take place on the basis of repo operations, that is, mutual transactions, with a reduced price for which these assets would be sold. So when it comes to worrying that the Czech National Bank will become a garbage can for some troubled assets... The question, of course, is political, to what extent we want to save private large corporations and non-bank corporations, because of course their weight on the market and the impact on financial stability is clear. On the other hand, political priorities can be set by saving the financial sector and saving a citizen and small businesses - if someone sees it as a counterweight and not as a connected vessel, then of course they have something to think about. So that's what this is all about. And I think, as far as the budget committee is concerned, only by what we're discussing today, of course, our eyes may be leaning on the original old print 532, but you may have noticed that it was included in the 46th meeting, which should also be held, which was called on the basis of signatures. In this context, of course, today's discussion of this point, i.e. press 791, must also be perceived. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate on this matter. The Committee on Budgets recommended that the general debate be conducted on this point. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby again. We will vote on whether we will lead the general debate on this point and on the short-term negotiations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 83, registered 98, for 90, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now, Mr Kubíček's procedural proposal. You were going to propose restrictions on speaking time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I propose limiting the debate for Members to five minutes in general and five minutes in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u13	Thank you. I will put this proposal to a vote. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of limiting speaking time for five minutes in general and for five minutes in detail. Who's against it? Voting number 84, registered is 99, for 71, versus 8. The motion was accepted. I am therefore opening a general debate and the President Kalousek is the first to sign up with priority rights. After that, Governor Rusnok is signed in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make sure that we are discussing an amendment to the CNB Act. [[The O.R. says yes.]] Thank you. So here I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank for a really thorough discussion. If only all the other laws which were put forward in a legislative emergency were discussed in such a thorough, factual and correct manner. We did this twice on the Committee on Budgets, two videoconferences were convened to do so, and the discussion was conducted quite correctly. We basically have two options ahead of us. Either we extend the competence of the Czech National Bank to the level that the European Central Bank has today, or - this is the second option, it is a comprehensive amendment by the members of five opposition parties - or we will extend the competence only so that the Czech National Bank can buy government bonds from the non-bank sphere, such as insurance companies or mutual funds, because it can do so today, but only with a maturity of up to 12 months. We would therefore extend this competence to an unlimited period of maturity. The amendment tabled by a group of opposition party members respects the need for a smooth financing of sovereign debt in the situation that awaits us, but does not think that the Czech National Bank should have those competences extended beyond what has so far been conceivable in our country, for example, that it could buy shares or corporate bonds from banks. There are a number of reasons why we don't think so. We think it is not entirely fair that, at a time when, unfortunately, a number of economic operators in the real economy will collapse, those in the financial sector will be completely bailed out by the intervention of the Czech National Bank. Above all, we fear that the losses from the balance sheets of the banking sector will be transferred to the losses of the Czech National Bank. [[9.30 hours]] We were not convinced by the arguments of representatives of the Czech National Bank, which said: Please, we will never buy any corporate bonds. And we said, "Why do you want it in the law?" And they said, in case it blew up in the market, we'd have it as insurance. I'd like to offer an alternative. Of course, we have no idea, none of us, how this is going to turn out in the coming months. In case this blurrs out in an unacceptable way on the market, I think the House has proven sufficient flexibility, even the opposition, so that we can get together and deal with this in a legislative emergency. But to sign a blank check to someone who says, "I don't want to do it, but give me the authority in the law," I don't think it would be entirely irresponsible of the House, we shouldn't do that. So I want to thank you again for the debate. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance for processing the amendment with due professional care. This is a comprehensive amendment, please. It is not an amendment to the amendment. It is a comprehensive amendment to the original text, so we will have two options - we will either give the Czech National Bank the broad powers or extend its powers, we will not take any away from it, but we will extend its powers only to purchase government bonds on the secondary capital market from the non-bank sector, because we consider it useful. We often hear in this argument that it is a harmonisation amendment, that the competences that the Ministry of Finance is asking the Czech National Bank today, that precisely those competences are the competence of the European Central Bank, that the Fed has them. But please, nicely, I'm convinced that's not the right analogy. The European Central Bank actually intervenes with all these instruments on the capital market, and this is mainly because the euro area does not have the Ministry of Finance. If the Ministry of Finance does not have and wants fiscal impulses to intervene in the economy within the euro area, it has nothing left but the European Central Bank. It's on the brink of monetary financing. I admit I don't like it, but who am I to talk into it? But we have the Treasury. This means that we have this instrument and we don't have to mix monetary and fiscal policies as much together as they do in the euro area. Any losses in the central bank's balance sheet are sometimes downgraded. They say, well, it doesn't translate into state debt, it doesn't translate into state deficit, it's accounting loss, it's a virtual number, it doesn't matter to you. Those of us who are still hoping that the Czech Republic will join the euro area, so this is a number that we are interested in, because at the time of joining the euro area, a Member State must pay for the loss of its central bank cash. [[The MP is silent due to the discussion in government benches.]] So for those of us who care, the risk is pretty unbearable. I do not want to speculate about currency depreciation because I believe that when it is happening on the secondary capital market and in this context and in this situation, the inflationary pressures that might trigger it are not that important. But my concerns about the loss of the Czech National Bank's balance sheet in this case are quite great, even concerns about the non-transparency of similar operations. The governor, when he performs, will surely say, "Don't worry, we won't do it anyway." And so if they don't want to do it, then why do they want it in the law? So I don't want it in the law. Once again, I thank all my colleagues from the opposition parties, the Ministry of Finance for their expert support and I ask for the support of the comprehensive amendment tabled by the group of Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u15	Thank you. And now Governor Rusnok is in the debate, to whom I hereby give the floor. Although speaking time was limited to five minutes, it doesn't make sense for the guest to speak in a limited manner, I hope there is no objection that I will not turn on the time machine. Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Chamber of Deputies, thank you for the opportunity to speak to this press. As has already been said by my previous speakers, this print 791 is really only a derivative, a complex derivative, already mentioned here in print 532. In this sense, the amendment does not actually bring anything new or surprising, unlike other emergency legislative amendments. It's a matter that has been discussed many times in legislative and factual terms, approved by two governments, passed the RIA, passed through all the opposing proceedings, so in terms of the risk that in some kind of rush, which is, of course, forced by circumstances, we make some mistake, there is, I think, the probability of absolutely minimal. A few notes on the material. The existing Act on the Czech National Bank was therefore proposed to be amended in this area, i.e. in the field of monetary instruments and open market operations, precisely because the existing Act does not reflect changes in the mandate of the Czech National Bank, which occurred in the period since the 1990s, when the law arose. At that time, the CNB had a much narrower scope, in essence, only to take care of price stability, i.e. to implement monetary policy and to carry out banking supervision. Now more than ten, twenty years later, the CNB has taken on additional responsibility. Above all, after the last financial crisis, European legislation has burdened these regulators with new responsibilities, particularly with regard to the supervision of overall financial stability, and also in our case with regard to the supervision of the financial market as a whole. So today we are not only supervising banks, but also insurance companies, pension funds, investment companies, and I would probably end up with currency exchange. The current CNB law is, of course, built for normal times in the discussed area, that is, when conventional monetary policy measures are seamlessly transferred to the rest of the economy and liquidity from the central bank and non-bank institutions is mediated in the standard way. However, the amendment was written just after the experience of the past financial crisis for circumstances where, in the future, extraordinary conditions may sometimes arise due to whatever reason, external shock or some kind of higher power, so that in such extraordinary circumstances the central bank can reliably fulfil all its roles that it is given. That is why the amendment was introduced into the legislative system, as has already been said, sometime in 2016. However, unfortunately, she did not have time to discuss and the crisis surprised us somewhat, came suddenly, certainly before we could prepare these instruments. [[9.40 hours]] I would like to stress that this amendment does not in any way break the ban on monetary financing by the government. However, it is understandable that from the point of view of the overall cost and financing of anti-crisis measures, secondary, tertiary benefits may also have positive effects in terms of the overall cost of dealing with or regulating the crisis and its consequences. So the basic purpose of the amendment is to allow the central bank to trade on the financial market without unnecessary restrictions in terms of possible instruments, their maturity and the counterparties with which these transactions are carried out. It is still true that the bank can carry out these operations only for the fulfilment of its mandate, i.e. price and in this case also financial stability. Therefore, the necessary wide scope for central bank transactions, because, especially in the area of financial stability, we really cannot predict in advance where the financial market is located and in what form, in terms of instruments, the current acute problem that would need to be addressed may emerge. It may also be necessary to provide liquidity to non-bank financial institutions, i.e. already mentioned insurance companies, pension funds or investment companies. This is not possible under the current law. I would like to stress that, in the crisis period that unfortunately awaits us and in the economic area, the problem, say, the fall of a relatively small non-bank institution, can trigger dangerous domino effects. And if we don't have the tools to intervene in this chain of negative events in time, the overall cost of dealing with this situation could be very high. It also applies, and it has also been said here that sometimes even consciousness itself - because the market, of course, also works with intangible values, i.e. with confidence, working with expectations - even knowing that the central bank has a sufficiently wide portfolio of instruments can calm these markets without ultimately having to really use them. Even so far, practice shows that extending a set of tools does not mean that the central bank is all or at some rapid time or ever will use it. That it would actually take effect on the market from, say, some of the most exotic tools, such as. buy out some low-rated bonds or headlong take high-risk loans into collateral. Even today, under the existing law, we can pledge bonds from banks to the state, and yet we have never done so in the last two decades because it was simply not necessary. It always depends on the assessment of the specific situation in which the most appropriate tools are used to ensure price and financial stability. And I ask that we leave this professional discretion to the independent central bank, because, after all, with Parliament's flexibility, for which I thank and appreciate it, the legislative process is very little operational. In credit operations or in these operations, the bank will always have to comply with adequate prudential procedures in the interests of its sound management - and no amendment or any other provision of Czech law applies to us from this point of view. This means that if we are forced to supply liquidity in some, say, extreme situations, e.g. theoretically for collateral loans, credit portfolios, so of course it is clear that this will be delivered with a large discount deduction. So theoretically, if there was a situation that there was a banking or financial institution, because that's all we're talking about - it looked like the bank was getting the authority to buy from issuers, for example. Corporate bonds, these debts, of course, are not possible - a bank can carry out these operations only with financial market participants, whether banking or non-banking, even if this law is approved. If, of course, there were such a hypothetical situation that we would, for example. They had to hold a bank that would have to stop the supply of some liquidity in a given situation with its own portfolio because it would no longer have sufficient portfolio of government bonds, so it is clear that such operations will be carried out with a significant discount and a significant security premium in terms of bank management. So let's say the loan portfolio could be 100 million and the bank would supply liquidity for 50-40 million. As far as the other counterparties are concerned, there have been arguments that this is too much for the central bank and that it cannot be argued by the European Central Bank. Please, I am prepared to argue, of course, by other central banks, which certainly have a partner against each other in the form of the Ministry of Finance. So just for the record, on April 6 this year, the central bank of the State of Israel, after the meeting of its Monetary Committee, said that it would now accept corporate and government bonds as collateral in its credit operations in an effort to improve market liquidity. The Committee's statement states: "In view of the extent of the adverse impact of the crisis on economic activity, the Committee uses a number of instruments to increase the scope of its monetary policy release and ensure the proper functioning of the financial market.' On April 7, New Zealand's central bank announced that it would include local government debt securities in its asset purchase programme, which it would purchase in the secondary market of up to $3 billion in New Zealand over the next 12 months. According to the Bank's comments, in recent weeks the bank has seen signs of a lack of liquidity in this very important market. I could give you other examples. The Swedish Riksbank will start buying commercial paper issued by Swedish non-financial companies, respectively. non-bank companies, up to 4 billion Swedish crowns. On 27 March, the Central Bank of Canada launched a commercial paper purchase programme to alleviate tensions in short-term financing markets. So there's no problem with that. Of course, the ECB is a specific example, please, we do not have to appeal to the ECB, but it is obvious that the broad portfolio of instruments used today is quite standard in countries that are very similar and close to us in terms of monetary arrangements. I would like to thank the Czech National Bank for the debate, for the cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and for the debate with the Committee on Budgets and Parliament's representatives. Of course, in terms of time constraints, it is not ideal in terms of general practice and experience, because, of course, any restriction on market-based instruments by the central authority is perceived sensitively and can, to some extent, reduce its credibility. However, I accept this compromise with confidence that Parliament will return to discuss the broader amendment to the CNB law after the current emergency has subsided, i.e. printing 532, which should be addressed already in the standard legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u17	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I'm asking if you want to speak with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President. Please. Vice-President Kubíček, then Mr Skopeček, with the opinion of the ODS. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would, therefore, like to imagine a comprehensive amendment in agreement with Mr Stanjura, which is part of the bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. And I will allow myself to read it whole this time. This means that Article I. Amendment of the Act on the Czech National Bank. In Article 32 of Law No 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended by Act No. 60/1993 Coll., Act No. 15/1998 Coll., Act No. 442/2000 Coll., found by the Constitutional Court, published under No. 278/2001 Coll., Act No. 482/2001 Coll., Act No. 127/2002 Coll., Act No. 257/2004 Coll., Act No. 230/2006 Coll., Act No. 160/2007 Coll., Act No. 36/2008 Coll., Act No. 124/2008 Coll., Act No. 254/2008 Coll., Act No. 281/2009 Coll., Act 285/2009 Coll., Act No. 295/2009 Coll., Act No. 145/2010 Coll., Act No. 156/2010 Coll., Act No. 41/2011 Coll., Act No. 92/2011 Coll., Act No. 136/2011 Coll., Act No. 139/2011 Coll., Act No. 357/2011 Coll., Act No. 428/2011 Coll., Act No. 227/2013 Coll., Act No. 135/2014 Coll., Act No. 204/2015 Coll., Act No. 375/2015 Coll., Act No. 377/2015 Coll., Act No. 258/2016 Coll., Act No.183/2017 Coll., Act No. 89/2018 Coll., Act No. 111/2019 Coll. and Act No. 277/20019 Sb., the current text is referred to as paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 is added as follows: [[unread: Act No. 377/2005 Coll., Act No. 57/2006 Coll., Act No. 62/2006 Sb.]] "Until 31 December 2021, the Czech National Bank shall also be entitled to trade in the financial market for investment vehicles and other securities, claims and other assets in the form of purchases and sales, repos, deposits, borrowings, loans or futures. Paragraph 34a is not affected by this.' [[Article II]] The effectiveness of this law. This law shall take effect on the day of its publication. What will be the announcement of changes in the current law on the Czech National Bank. In Section 32 of Arabic 1 the Czech National Bank may purchase and sell securities to direct the money market, unless otherwise provided in this Act. Arabic 2 Until 31 December 2021, the Czech National Bank shall also be entitled to trade in the financial market for investment vehicles and other securities, claims and other assets in the form of purchases and sales, repos, deposits, borrowings, lending or futures. Paragraph 34a is without prejudice to this. Justification for this comprehensive amendment. To Article I. The aim of the comprehensive amendment is to narrow the original proposal in substance only to a part which releases restrictions on the Czech National Bank in the field of financial market transactions, so that the central bank is not limited in these transactions by a range of counterparties or maturity, but only for a period from the entry into force of the Act until the end of 2021. The newly proposed provision of § 32 para. 2 doesn't talk about counterparties, so it doesn't limit them. This will enable the Czech National Bank to trade in the financial market also, for example, with insurance companies, pension companies or other institutional investors. These transactions include repo transactions, i.e. purchase and resale contracts, by which the Czech National Bank can provide temporary liquidity. As regards maturity, the newly proposed provision of § 32 para. 2 talks about the financial market in general and the maturity of the instruments with which the Czech National Bank can trade in the financial market is therefore not limited. As a general rule, these transactions, as well as any other activity carried out by the Czech National Bank, are carried out to carry out their legal tasks, which is already the result of Article 98 of the Constitution in conjunction with the regulation in the Czech National Bank Act and Article 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, are prohibited to public institutions by whatever is not expressly permitted to them or is not expressly ordered to do. [[according to which]] However, for the position of this fact, this is also declared directly in the text of the Act in the newly proposed resolution § 32 para. 2. On the financial market, the Czech National Bank will also be entitled to trade in state securities. Therefore, the amendment further stipulates that the newly proposed provision of § 32 para. 2 does not interfere in any way with the prohibition of monetary financing contained in Section 34a of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The prohibition on monetary financing, i.e. the prohibition on granting credit to the State or the purchase of issued government debt instruments directly from the State, is not modified in any way. Since the expansion of the Czech National Bank's business on the financial market is due to the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in order to enable the Czech National Bank to fulfil its legal tasks, the time-limit for the proposed release of restrictions on the financial market by the Czech National Bank is limited only until the end of 2021. [[tho]] The provisions of Article II. Effectiveness is proposed on the date of the declaration of the law. The reason for this is an urgent general interest consisting in the need to respond urgently to the emergence and development of COVID-19 disease in the pandemic and to enable the Czech National Bank to trade on the financial market with a wider range of entities and instruments as quickly as possible. We adopted this comprehensive amendment and submitted it on behalf of members of Roman Kubíček, Zbyněk Stanjura, Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Věra Adámková. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u19	Thank you. With the club's opinion, Mr. Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u20	Thank you very much. We are meeting here and we are discussing a topic that we have already, I feel, discussed a million times here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and on the various forums that we have discussed within the Committee on Budgets. (?) I would just like to point out that the amendment to the law has been here since 2016, and therefore I would be very vigilant and urge you to consider whether this situation - a state of legislative emergency - is not more used to use this standard, which the Czech National Bank has been trying to use since 2016, so whether we are using this condition to finally approve it. I want to say that this is a rather fundamental amendment to the Czech National Bank Act and that this is a rather fundamental extension of monetary policy instruments. And I have to smile a little bit about the Czech National Bank's argument, because when she first came here with the law, she was commenting on it as a technical harmonisation amendment that wasn't really important. She wanted to give the Chamber a little bit of comfort in the sense that it was not a big deal, and over time, this has become a very fundamental amendment in today's day, a very crucial thing to save the financial sector. So please just think about the extent to which the Czech National Bank has led us by the nose, whether it was at the beginning of this amendment, when it was a technical harmonisation amendment, or whether it is pulling our noses today, when it says that this is an absolutely necessary thing to save the financial sector. And I don't mean that personally to the governor right now. The law was still here in the previous mandate of the previous Bank Board. So it is nothing personal about the current management of the Czech National Bank, against the existing Bank Board. [[10.00 hours]] When I say that the amendment is essential, it is essential that the Czech National Bank gives new monetary policy instruments. So far, the Czech National Bank - and I think it was right - has been limited dominantly to the interest rate instrument. Now its instruments are to be extended to so-called unconventional monetary policy instruments, and I must acknowledge that they are unconventional monetary policy instruments that are used by a number of other central banks. And if the governor here is arguing with the European Central Bank, the Fed or other central banks, yes, he is right about that, other central banks are actually using it. The question is, are we in the same situation as those central banks, that we would need it, too? And the second question is that other central banks have it, the most important argument is why we should have it in the instruments as well. In the case of the European Central Bank, the need for quantitative easing is due to the fact that the European Central Bank actually blew out its main currency instrument, which means interest rates, and today it is at zero or minus with those interest rates. Do we want to give the Czech National Bank another tool so that it also has a chance to shoot the main arsenal faster and go to the minus interest rates? I don't think so. Second argument. Has it helped the quantitative easing or printing of the money that is currently happening by the central bank buying securities into its balance sheet and de facto providing new money to the financial sector, or can the real economy, in the case of other central banks, not be part of this proposal, somehow help the European Central Bank to save the economic growth of the euro area through the printing of the money? Did this new monetary instrument help to improve the eurozone economy? Well, of course he didn't. The eurozone, although the European Central Bank has been massively quantitatively releasing for years, has been holding the eurozone's growth to very below average and small figures. So let us not lie to ourselves that quantitative easing is such a great tool in the sense that it could save economic growth. The problem of eurozone economies is, of course, somewhere. These are over-regulated economies, low-productivity economies, with an inability to bring innovation. And believe that this structural problem of the euro area cannot be resolved by quantitative release, and if any of you think that this instrument, following the model of the European Central Bank, could help the economy, for example, in helping to grow, I am convinced - and the eurozone is making it clear - that it would not help. Why are both the government and the Czech National Bank seeking this? This is quite a simple consideration from the government. A government that has not created financial reserves in recent years, such as Germany, will be forced to finance its larger expenditures with more debt and it is clear that it will therefore have to issue more bonds. In fear or fear that these bonds might not have such favourable conditions, such an advantageous interest rate, the government will, of course, be happy to have an entity like the Czech National Bank, who will be able to buy these securities in the secondary market and de facto reduce the financing of the state debt, which can be an advantage in some crisis-free period when we simply need to finance some public expenditure. However, the problem with this proposal is that the central bank has not only wanted limited but permanent since 2016. So we will permanently have the Czech National Bank's instrument that will cheapen state debt financing and buy securities at an interest rate that private private investors would not be willing to accept because they would see a more risky client in the Czech Republic or the government. Today's amendment, or the amendments that are in play, is limiting the validity of this to a year, but we all know that within the framework of the standard legislative process, there is a standard that expects this instrument, as they say, to be in the hands of the Czech National Bank for eternity. And I just don't think that we're supposed to open Pandořin's moral hazard box in that the government can be indebted to the future without having a market corrector in the sense that private investors will still appreciate how the entity, in this case the government, is at risk or not. So in the future, we're going to be able to put ourselves in more debt than the government would allow the market situation, or how private investors would value the government. In the case of the Czech National Bank, the interest in approving the amendment is more apparent. Just like any other institution wishes to expand its influence and power. After all, as I say, the law did not come about COVID-19 disease, the law and the part that we are discussing today has been here since 2016 and the Czech National Bank at that time argued that this is something both the European Central Bank and the Fed have. But again, these central banks, much sooner than the Czech National Bank, fired their main arsenal, and if they wanted to release monetary conditions, they had nothing left but quantitative easing. We are fortunate that in the past, the central bank - in this sense I praise it - has acted responsibly and has created a monetary policy space in the sense that we do not have negative or zero interest rates for years, but now, in these difficult times, the central bank can lower its basic interest rate. We're not quite on the ground yet. We're not at the zero yet. However, even the very instrument of buying not only government bonds, now I would get to those corporate bonds that the central bank will be able to buy, even this has its unintended consequences, buying corporate bonds from the central bank. The central bank argues that it can provide liquidity to some financial institution that is in trouble, but I will get back to being able to compare the way it is taking place in those other world central banks, whether the European Central Bank or the Fed, and I will ask such questions that each of you can answer. Will the central bank buy corporate bonds from all financial market institutions that appear in difficulty? Does that mean buying from both the large, systemic institutions in the financial market, or even the small mutual funds, relatively for the financial market and its unimportant stability? Will the central bank, in the context of saving a mutual or pension fund or any fund to save it, only buy a little bit of bonus bonds, or will it buy into its balance sheet even completely toxic bonds without any value? That, too, is a vital question. And the Czech National Bank, or the amendment that we will approve today, does not say that it would only have to be bonds with some degree of quality. And when you look into that world, buying so-called toxic assets, toxic bonds make it possible for companies to survive in some of those countries that would otherwise have failed long ago and would have just freed up a place for more skilled financial institutions that behaved responsibly. [[10.10 hours]] One of the market economies is simply that some businesses are failing or some businesses are losing, and then somebody else may have to take over, buy, or someone else will come to their place. But with this system, the purchase of toxic assets allows many countries to survive so-called. zombies to companies that, under other circumstances, should no longer exist on the market and should leave room for someone else. And even in this context, not only as with those sovereign bonds, but also in this context, private bonds create a huge moral hazard, because if the managers of these financial institutions know that there is an uncle who will come and help at some point, then answer for yourself to what extent they will consider what portfolio of securities they will be buying, they will manage for their clients. So, of course, these purchases, if they were launched in some massive way, can dramatically change the structure of the financial sector, and also the financial sector can inflate and increase against the real economy, which is another problem of the practice that we can see with the European Central Bank or with the Fed. Because when a central bank buys financial sector bonds and pours more and more money into that financial sector, of course, the size of that financial sector is increasing towards the real economy. It is a problem that many economists have pointed out that the financial sector actually blew up in a completely unbearable way over the last ten twenty years, and it is a huge risk for the future. Even in the previous decades, when the financial sector was not so huge and had some problems, so it was often transferred to the real economy and it had a problem for the real economy and caused the financial and economic crisis, but when the problem of the financial sector was even more bloated, even more bulky to the real economy, of course any problem could be absolutely disastrous. So in this way, with these instruments, we can allow the central bank to grow to a size that may mean more dramatic effects in the future in the event of some economic difficulties in the real economy than it would have been if the financial sector had not been so big. So, as I say again, the central bank may prefer some institutions in the financial market, not to buy from everyone, it can buy toxic assets and let zombies survive, and it can inflate the financial sector in this way, which may have huge problems in the future. As I said before, I am simply not convinced in the long run that quantitative easing, printing money in a fundamental way can help economies. I believe that both the European Central Bank and the US Fed, the US Central Bank, launched this instrument mainly because they wanted to trigger higher inflation, which would erase their relatively high government debt. However, this is not going very well so far, because, in particular, the European economy is not growing very much, nor is inflation too high to be expected there. So, in this sense, the euro area is not able to erase the eurozone's debt, its government debt, its debt. So these are my fundamental arguments against this novel. I'm willing to support the complex change, respectively, with gnashing my teeth. Amendment of the opposition. In recent weeks, we have tried to compromise with other representatives and the Minister. Unfortunately, he wasn't found. I think it was dominant because of the firmness of the Czech National Bank, but that is another matter. I am willing to support this amendment. There was also an amendment... And I'm just going to describe the opposition. The opposition amendment wanted to narrow the monetary instruments to the fact that the Czech National Bank could only buy government bonds and possibly help the government finance higher government debt, and it was limited by a year. For the one I'm saying again, I'm able to vote today with the gnashing of my teeth, even though I don't think it's ideal. Then there was a comprehensive amendment, which a fellow member of the ANO movement had just read here, leaving the central bank with the entire palette, but limiting it for a year. For me personally, this amendment is not acceptable, because everything that is temporary has proved to be for ever. And once again, in this standard legislative process, there is a proposal that will turn it into a permanent one. But even in our club, we don't have a binding vote to do that, so maybe the limit of a year for someone gets support. I will persuade my colleagues to do as little as possible, because I really consider this to be the opening of Pandořina's locker and creating a huge moral gamble, whether it is to allow more government debt than would be healthy, as well as towards the private financial sector, to inflate it, to change it structurally in this way. Thank you for your attention and probably today we are not going to end the Czech National Bank marathon, but we are going to take a substantial step, and I am not happy about this step, but that is what happens in life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u21	I thank you and Mr Hrnčíř is now signed up for the debate. I remind you, with all the other performers, the limit has been set for five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can say I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, we think that the Czech National Bank no doubt deserves to extend its powers and monetary policy instruments. Sadly, for the fifth year, there are changes and expansion of the powers of the Czech National Bank, we have press 532, which is here at second reading, and of course there is much more to the press than we are discussing today. We're only discussing one short section here today, and it's a shame that the government coalition hasn't been able to discuss this in such a long time, and we could have saved ourselves here in a state of legislative emergency an argument about whether it's abuse or not. Of course, we also realize that the Czech National Bank, respectively. After all, the law on the Czech National Bank is a little older and, even in an international context, the new instruments and other powers deserve the bank. We are also aware that the government must borrow on the measures associated with the economic crisis that the coronavirus is causing, so with the Czech National Bank having extended possibilities, so of course the money for the Czech state will be significantly cheaper, because the signal to investors will be absolutely clear that the Czech National Bank can simply participate in those purchases on the secondary market, so the price will then go down and we will, of course, save all taxpayers. Since we are actually discussing press 791, one can say, almost unstandardly, in a state of legislative emergency, we will be happy if the amendment is actually tabled, which actually limits the time until the end of next year, with the fact that, in the meantime, we would have discussed the press 532 properly and finally amended the law. So, of course, we as SPD support this press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u23	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in fact, the most important law of the anti-crisis that we have adopted so far in terms of the amount of funding that is involved. In my opinion, it is extremely problematic to approve it in a legislative emergency, and in addition to limiting the debate to one speaker and five minutes. I really don't think that's appropriate for such an important press. [[A note from the diaper.]] Yes, each Member may speak only once and only for five minutes. I really don't think that's appropriate for such an important press. [[Another note from the diaper.]] This is what happened yesterday all day, and the resolution was the same. We give the Czech National Bank powers that can lead to hundreds of billion-dollar financial operations with an impact on the real economy. This means, it can manifest itself in inflation, it can manifest itself in the koruna exchange rate, that is, it can manifest itself in the value of people's savings and in what they will and will not be able to buy. We consider this extension of the CNB's powers to be too broad. We are particularly bothered by the possibility of buying long-term corporate bonds or shares and the risk that the Czech National Bank will save a narrow group of private companies using our undeveloped capital market. Moreover, there is minimum public control over CNB operations. The transactions conducted by the CNB fall under banking secrecy. I understand, of course, that the CNB has a good reputation. She's worked well over the last few years. But at the same time, we cannot ignore that this law also brings considerable risks. The resolution of the crisis is largely moving beyond political decisions, into the hands of the central bank. This, of course, can also bring positives, but at the same time, it is a big shift where, instead of citizens deciding through elections, the power moves somewhere else. And I think that this trend is generally not happy. At the same time, research shows that this is precisely what pumping money into the economy through central banks leads to the opening of scissors between the poor and the rich and increasing inequality in society. It happened primarily in the US. That is why the pirát will not support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u25	Thank you. Next up, Mr Martínek is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u26	Thank you. I just want to briefly mention that comparisons with the ECB, for example, seem a little misleading just from the point of view that the ECB is controlled by multiple instances, more states. The specific Governing Council shall be composed of all euro area States. So it's not really controlled by just one instance. Moreover, the uncontrolled practice of this possible free market trading may create room for corruption in the selection of those corporate bonds, since it is not really possible in our market where most companies do not trade in the stock market, the real value of the given corporate bonds cannot be objectively determined. And this, of course, creates great risks and concerns so that there is no new privatisation in quotation marks, a transfer of property to a certain group of people from others. I would therefore be able to imagine support and support an amendment that limits the CNB's current powers to government bonds. Likewise, if this amendment had been passed, I could have imagined the support of the entire press. If this amendment is passed, which will allow the Czech National Bank to extend powers to government bonds, which could then help the Czech Republic better in the event of the current crisis. So, please support this amendment, which will allow us to accept the option that I think the vast majority of the Chamber of Deputies would agree to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u27	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the general debate. Mr. Munzar, if I can tell him correctly, without his glasses. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Next time, I'll log in electronically to be recognizable. Anyway, hello, Mr. Governor, hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I would like to follow up on my colleague Ferjenčík and my colleague from the ODS, Mr Skopeček. Indeed, as my colleague Ferjenčík said here by means of you, today we are deciding on instruments worth several tens, perhaps hundreds of billions of crowns, in such a volume that - and this instrument can interfere very much with its effects both on inflation and, in particular, on people's savings. A colleague of mine, Skopeček, said a few questions here. I would very much like the Governor to reply to them, in what way, in fact, the central bank, virtually. The Board will decide on the purchases of those securities. Will he buy from large only, from any strategic or even small mutual funds? Will he buy bonita or toxic assets? And so on. I am simply interested in what criteria he will decide on. Because, in fact, public control on the central bank is very limited with regard to the independence of the central bank. So what are the criteria by which you, Mr. Governor, will assess the purchase of the individual papers? Are there any objective criteria? Or is it really going to be ad hoc decisions based on who needs help right now or maybe knocking on the central bank's door? So I want to ask you these questions, if you have any idea what criteria you're going to decide by using these tools. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u29	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary? It is. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I beg you very much to support this legislative proposal. It will help this country. This provision in the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act is really here, even the whole amendment, since 2016 and it has been put there just in case of crisis. This provision, which we will be voting on today. The crisis came faster than the law could discuss. He fell under the table in this House in the last parliamentary term. It's actually before the second reading. We certainly discussed this also in the videoconferences when the debate was longer, because the issue is not only this provision, but, above all, the opposition is debating the subject of mortgages and other things. And at this point, there is a time when we have a crisis of one day, and it will really help us revive the financial markets, it will revive the financial markets. We have sold today and actually paid off the old installments, which came up this year. The lowest they've been in the last ten years. And I will not now respond to Mr Skopeck of the Party's unpreparedness and economic situation. We're gonna be very detailed about this in a minute when we're discussing budgetary responsibility, so the subject is really gonna be there, it's gonna escalate more, so I'm not gonna open it up right now because I'm gonna open it up in a second. It's very helpful, it brings the financial markets back to life. The Czech National Bank will enter the secondary market. And in order for it to have meaning, it only matters if it can use the tools to the extent that we have written in this amendment. And I am prepared to support a single amendment, and that is the one that Mr Kubíček has read here, is in common with Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Stanjura, and to postpone efficiency by the end of the year, or virtually. limit the efficiency by the end of 2021, because I assume that it is sufficient room for a proper amendment, which is here before the second reading, to be approved by then, and that is where the provision is, of course. So, please, it will help the economic situation, because we want our government to have the greatest ambition to take step forward in this country, and therefore all the laws that we are putting forward here in a legislative emergency. On the one hand, they are intended to help citizens and firms, businessmen, self-employed people, on the other hand, to help revive the economy of this country overall. So I ask that you take this into account in your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u31	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? It's not like that. I am opening up a detailed debate. The Governor is still reporting for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u32	Thank you, Mr President, honourable House, I only wish I did not fully owe it, although, of course, I will not respond to all the complaints that have been raised here, because some are in the spirit of faith. And I'm not a good preacher, I'm not gonna convince one or the other of the right faith. I recognise that there is a debate on whether, for example, unconventional monetary policy instruments are more or less successful, effective in achieving monetary policy objectives, and I agree with Mr Skopeček that the debate in this area is very unclear, virtually. its result is very unclear. And I myself am not an enthusiast of any unconventional monetary measures, but it does not in any way suggest or direct to them. He is much more focused on financial stability. And here I think the need to expand the central bank's instruments is indisputable if it is to meet this mandate, this part of its mission. And it is really up to you as legislators and the sovereign Parliament of this country whether you give that trust to the key institution of this state or not. This is not about any further persuasion in my opinion. Fear of buying some zombie businesses, so I'm afraid we shouldn't be in some zombie economy at all after a year since this crisis. Really, I'm sorry, but that's, I think, a little petty at the moment, and we're definitely not gonna be buying and keeping any zombie businesses alive. As I said before, we can maximize our mandate in terms of price and financial stability. And if, theoretically, when we talk about the crisis law here, there is a situation where there will be no leftover leftover in the secondary market to enter into any financial institution business, then we will always definitely take into account that we are fulfilling this mandate, and, of course, the criterion, the only criterion for using the instruments is the fulfilment of this mandate, the systemic significance of the matter. It's just totally fake, I'm sorry, really a little petty problems. The systemic seriousness of the matter, of course, that if a mini-units fund collapses, then the central bank will probably not pop up here because it cannot have an effect on the financial market, and it will run through the standard exit processes of the market, so it is logical that the central bank will not deal with it. Concerns that the central bank will bring this country into some uncontrolled inflation - Mr Ferjenčík - and the standard of living. Yes, I, too, am concerned about living standards, but it depends on this country's economy. And if we are not able to hold this economy in any very difficult situation and put it on some trajectory of normal recovery, then, of course, I am very concerned about the standard of living of the people of this country. Mr Martínek believes that the ECB is more controlled. So I want to assure you that it is not more controlled, because the governors who make up the ECB's leadership are appointed in the same way in the national countries, and they themselves - one of those 26 still has no real weight. Look at the conflicts in the ECB, the vote in the last two or three years, when countries that represented more of the euro area's GDP were unable to assert their opinion. I would not be in charge of any sort of supervision of the ECB here. Here's one last point, just for a methodical explanation. Mr Kalousek is concerned about the loss of the central bank and about making it difficult for him to join the euro area. So please nicely, the loss of the central bank is not an obstacle to entry into the euro area, because we have here an example of Slovakia, which, to this day, has accumulated the loss of the central bank, and it has not caused any problem for joining the euro area. The formal obstacle may be the incompatibility of our legislation, which is blamed on us in the regular convergence reports, and in this case, this proposal was originally also a harmonisation amendment, and to this day it is a harmonisation amendment, among other things. But of course, his material tasks and reasons for his approval have now come to the fore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u33	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'll just be very brief. I confess that Mr. Governor's argument has made me even more concerned than I was before this law was discussed. If I paraphrase it a little bit, he said, "Please, what do you suspect? We're not doing anything like that. Well, if you're not gonna do something like that, which I'm glad to hear, then why do you want it in the law? I agree you're not supposed to do this. But since you're not supposed to do that, you're not even supposed to have the instrument, because if we give you the instrument, why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u35	Thank you. Mr Skopeček for a detailed debate, then Mr Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u36	Thank you very much. I would apply to the amendment under number 4832. It is a joint opposition proposal prepared by Mr Kalousek, along with the Ministry of Finance, and it is a narrowing of monetary policy instruments on government bonds, something that I can agree to today with the gnashing of teeth. Otherwise, I will ask for a vote on the accompanying resolution. I want to read the accompanying resolution that the Chamber of Deputies requests to inform the Czech National Bank regularly about the volume and use of new monetary instruments by the Chamber of Deputies. I assume that this will be approved in some form today unfortunately, and as the Governor comes here with an inflation report, with a report on financial stability, either within it or within that second report, I would ask that we regularly get information on the volume and how these new monetary instruments are used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u37	Thank you. Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will take the liberty of signing up for a comprehensive amendment, which I have justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u39	Thank you. I ask if anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? They're not interested. I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. I remind everyone that yesterday's agreement applies, that first we will discuss all the laws of the Ministry of Finance, which is still point 3 and 4, and then we will proceed to the third reading. I therefore interrupt this item until the second reading is discussed for all points from the Ministry of Finance workshop, these are points 3 and 4 according to the approved agenda. Proceed with point 3. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-001-002.u40	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We'll continue, as has been announced, point 3. It's about
