ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-067-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Members of the Government, we will continue our negotiations and this time allow me to start the 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first unsubscribe you all and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who is applying for a replacement card. The replacement card numbers issued at the previous meeting are valid. So did the apology from the meeting, including Minister Blatný, who apologized separately. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 48 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 13 November. [[There's a noise going on in the O.R.]] First item - please calm the House! - we shall proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate the verifiers of this meeting of Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Leo Luzar. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We're going to vote number one, but I can't initiate that. I will also ask my colleagues to sign up for their participation in the House, because there are certainly more people here than they have so far signed up with their cards. It's obvious at first sight. [[A little pause.]] I can begin voting number 1 and ask who is in favour of identifying the verifiers, Mr Kalousek and Mr Luzar. Anyone against it? Thank you. Voting number one, of the 81 Members present for 77, against no one. We've approved the Verifiers. We can therefore proceed to the 67th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on our Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the House only on the agenda set out in the application. No change or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. We'll decide in vote number two. If no one's on the agenda, we're good to go. I have begun voting number two, and I am asking who is in favour of approving this meeting's agenda. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number two, 82 for 61 Members present, against 17. The draft agenda has been approved. We can therefore consider the only point in this meeting and that is the point in number
