ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (Criminal Code), as amended, and some other laws /house print 453/ - second reading I thank the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová for sitting at the rapporteur's table, and I thank the rapporteur, Mrs Helena Válková, for the constitutionally-legal committee. Under the authority of the Government, the proposal shall be made by the Minister of Justice. And I, before I give her my word, state that at first reading, the law was ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 453/1 to 3. And now it is up to the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová to state the law. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just remind you what's going on. It is a government proposal which amends both the criminal code and, as amended, some other laws. This is the House Press 453. First of all, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Justice has drawn up this proposal, the main objective of which is to support the increase in the number of penalties imposed, already as penalties for individual or imposed in addition to other penalties. We are following up on the previous efforts of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, which, following a series of expert seminars held in 2017 for judges and prosecutors and police officers, have taken the necessary non-legislative measures on this issue. The main proposed changes in this material are, in brief, the abolition of the possibility of converting the cash penalty into other, alternative penalties; the abolition of a substitute prison sentence - the unpaid cash penalty will instead be converted into a prison sentence in accordance with a statutory calculation; mitigating the conditions for smoothing the conviction of a cash penalty and the possibility to proceed directly to the conversion of a cash penalty without prior enforcement, if it is clear that enforcement would be ineffective or could be thwarted. This topic is also linked to another proposal, which is the subject of a separate press, namely the transfer of the collection of cash penalties and all other claims arising from the Ministry of Justice, the administration of which is governed by the tax rules, to the Customs Administration. It is a print 762 and its first reading was included on the agenda of this meeting. In the context of the debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee, a rather large-scale amendment was adopted, the essence of which is essentially the merger of this government bill with the parliamentary proposal, which is mentioned under number 466, which aims to re-set the levels of individual limits of damage in the Code of Criminal Procedure and to amend the rules of the Institute of Guilt and Punishment Agreement. [[16.20 hours]] As far as this proposal is concerned, we agree with it and with the other amendments proposed in the CIP opinion. I will then comment on this later and on the various amendments as well. I would just like to say that it has passed through the constitutionally-legal committee, which took place 18. 9, 11. 12. and 5. 2. 2020 but perhaps the rapporteur, Professor Válková, will be referring to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice, Marie Benešová, and I will ask the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mrs Helena Válková, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, this press has not been quite easy to go because it is an amendment to the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and related legislation that changes a little bit of the design of criminal policy, and so, of course, many of our Members have spoken about it. Then, after the debate, because it was such a very significant - and the Minister had already spoken about it - a fundamental parliamentary proposal under the House press 466, given that this was concerned with a matter which, in a sense, was related to it, we agreed to discuss this press together with the press 453. So, as the Minister has also been mentioned here, the merger of the debate and the constitutionally-legal committee, which is also a committee of guarantee, has several times interrupted to buy time, to adopt a major resolution on 5 February 2020, within which the vast majority of the substantial changes proposed by the parliamentary proposal, was taken over by the House press 466, adding the House press 453, which was mentioned here by the Minister and which, of course, remains largely preserved. That is what I would like to say, that is actually the backbone of the whole proposal for an amendment to criminal law, when it makes it easier to impose a cash penalty and, in the event that it is not carried out in time, properly, to change it to an unconditional penalty, while at the same time abolishing relatively more complicated conversions to other alternative penalties needed. At the same time, it also provides for the adoption of the comprehensive proposal by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, the level of the limit of damage which distinguishes crimes against crimes, crimes and particularly serious crimes, and which is very necessary precisely because there has been a significant increase in prices over the last ten years, which, however, has not been reflected in the very boundaries that distinguish the different types of offences and thus also sets different criminal rates. So, in the current situation, we've set up the criminal repression much more strictly than ten years ago, and we've got a lot more convicts in prison than it was in the past. That is why the limit of the amount of damage of 5,000 is shifted in proportion, which is a pity, which now distinguishes the offense from the offense, from the mildest crime we call an offense, and which we propose to move to the limit of 10,000 crowns. In fact, nothing happens that's so dramatic. We have also received a justification from the Supreme Prosecutor in which they point out that the increase will not be dramatic in terms of the number of cases that the municipalities should be dealing with if this proposal were to be passed, because there were concerns among you that municipalities, the commission of offenses, would not be able to handle such a strain. It should be 3 to 5,000 cases a year, and if we spread it across the whole Czech Republic, it really is not a dramatic increase at all, and far worse is the very strict criminal policy now. At the same time, the rate, which is also very important, the limit of the amount of damage set at 5 million, is increasing to 10 million in the proposal, so I want to draw attention to these changes because the original Houses of the Press are not 453. You have the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee on the House press under number 3, i.e. 453/3 of 5 February 2020. It contains the conclusions of the resolution, within which all proposed amendments were recommended by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I'm just going to make a brief recap because some of them have had some pretty big discussions. That's how it is, for example. the extension of the possibility, even for a particularly serious crime, of conditional release of the convicted, unless, by the particularly serious crime, death, serious injury to health, was committed on a pregnant woman or child, was neither committed as a member of an organized group, in conjunction with or for the benefit of an organized group, nor was it any terrorist offence, nor was it the one referred to in Titles 3rd, 7th, 9th, 12th, 13th special part of this Act or in paragraph 1 of this Act. 4 and who was not in prison, so convicted, if he carried out at least one third of that imposed or, according to the decision of the President of the Czech Republic, a reduced sentence of imprisonment, could be suspended after a third of the execution. The original proposal was wider, but then we narrowed it down to such, I would say, a minimum, but we opened the possibility of conditional release even in the long, unconditional prison sentences, as is common in other European countries. It supports this proposal, for example. also associations of organizations operating in the area of prison, so I mention that this is a proposal with which they express their agreement and are supported by those who work and are also known for the good results of work in the area of work with sentenced people to unconditional prison sentences. There is also a very important institute in this proposal and the possibilities of extending its application, it is an agreement on the negotiation of guilt and punishment, which has its convention also, of course, in a milder criminal repression and at the same time accelerates our criminal proceedings if the defendant approaches it, and thus can also achieve a certain reduction in criminal rates, and even after the lower limit, which is otherwise foreseen by the Code of Criminal Procedure. At the same time, there is also an institute of declaration of guilt that simplifies evidence in criminal proceedings. [[16.30 hours]] I was talking about the damage. Then there are the adjustments that we originally had in the amendments as a Member, i.e. Mrs Ožanová, which was the implementation of two European directives, respectively. their transposition into our code. At the same time, my proposal when, in view of the long-term criticism of the possibility of relatively too easily changing protective treatment in the event of failure to comply with its conditions on security clearance, § 99 para. 5 of the Penal Code, so the proposal cancels the vague characteristics, when the one who has been given protective treatment shows a negative attitude to protective treatment without the negative attitude being specified in any way, so it is actually possible to change the protective treatment to a protective detention, which in practice proves to be too drastic a measure, because you can actually stay for life in the protection ward, and the control that is going on is really in a number of cases taking into account those conditions which otherwise apply to the deposit of the protective separation, or may be formal. So we have to try to make sure that the protective detachment is adjusted legislatively so that the person to whom it is imposed has to meet all the conditions for the deposit of the protective detachment, and not to change the protective treatment in cases where it shows a negative attitude and is not specified what the negative attitude lies, for example, in the fact that it spits out the medications that someone gave him or have been prescribed to correct his behavior, perhaps aggressive or violent. This should certainly not lead to the storage of the safety device. I'm going into detail, I'm aware of it, it's a big print. In fact, your attention should not miss, in particular, the things that the Minister has said, namely the possibilities and the strengthening of possibilities, the simplification of the possibility of imposing cash penalties instead of other sanctions. Then it is the negotiation of an agreement on guilt and punishment and a declaration of guilt, the acceleration of criminal proceedings, then, let's say - I would say adaptation of the current situation, the criminal policy of the current economic situation, and I do not mean this Coronavirus situation, however, the situation that is given by this price development, or the increase of those borders, which are in Section 138 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And I think that these are the most important changes that the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee approved at its meeting on 5 February, and I recommend that the House accept them in this way. There is, of course, still a related law which I would not like to forget about the criminal liability of legal persons where, if this proposal goes through, and the constitutionally-legal committee has also agreed to it, it should look at the convicted legal person as if it were not convicted, if, once again, the exceptions which apply to a particularly serious crime should be looked at, or the legal person as if it had not been convicted, if it was properly executed, or if it was eventually pardoned, or the penalty would have been suspended. So, for example, in the case of a cash penalty, if she pays it, she would no longer have the register marked by the fact that there would be a statement that might make it impossible for her to continue her business in the way that she would like. Of course, this does not concern particularly serious crimes, where the legal person had to be sentenced to forfeit the property, to a ban on activities, to a ban on public procurement. So, to sum up, I think we've worked quite a lot on the constitutional and legal committee, that the amendment is essential, that it would be very helpful to approach the standard of European countries in the area of criminal policy. It is not so revolutionary that we would change something that we are so used to increasing the limits of damage so that some of the crimes that we are used to are being imposed on us in the Czech Republic, so that we would suddenly move into the area of offenses, really not, don't worry, especially mayors and mayors and captains and captains. Those calculations, when they approach it and suggest it by the Supreme Attorney's Office, and the Supreme Court and the courts, the judiciary, probably know that there will be no dramatic increase according to the statistics that are closely leading. And I think that we should support this amendment. So the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is that it proposes that I bring you up to speed with the most important changes that I have outlined here, and it recommends that you accept the resolution. And since this resolution includes the proposals that are originally and therefore will not be applied, the amendments under Nos 3368 and 3712, which I will not apply, as well as the other amendments, are only 5, not 7, as it might seem at first sight. Other amendments, which are - two of which I have actually applied - under the number 4891 and 4892, I would call them almost legislatively technical, because we are merely supplementing the new penalty against the prohibition on the possession and breeding of animals in the law on criminal liability of legal persons and in the law on judicial matters of young people. So it's just about using this possibility of opening criminal legislation to legislatively supplement what we've introduced in the previous amendments, but we've forgotten these two laws. Then there is an amendment, which I am sure he will present, or I assume that Mr Tomáš Vymazal will present, under number 5023, and that is a rather significant change, and I think that we should talk about this in more detail here, because if it were adopted, I think it could extend, have an impact on the extension, or at least complicate a certain phase of criminal proceedings. So, of course, I leave it to Mr Vymazal. Then there is one joint proposal that I and Mr Michálek made when it comes to, I would say, a certain response to the practice of certain courts which do not take into account and do not have to take account of the so-called accumulation of penalties. These are cases where someone has been convicted, not yet executed an unconditional sentence of imprisonment, and they are being tried for another crime. If this is not a continuation of a criminal offence and there is not a summary penalty or a common penalty, then in such a case it is necessary that, in order to unify the application practice, it is expressly stipulated in the relevant provision that the court should also take account of the fact that the previously imposed unconditional punishment has not yet been carried out, because otherwise it happens to us that in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment - I apologize, but now as I cannot speak much - that in the execution of the sentence - noise - that in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment we have then, for example, three, four, five years convicted for relatively small property crimes or minor property offences, which we certainly do not want very much, and some of them do not really have to be there for this long. So we do not restrict the freedom and independence of the courts by prescribing to them how to make decisions, but by uniting the practice by saying that, if necessary, the court also has to take account of this fact that the previous punishment has not yet been carried out and it is necessary to take it into account. So I think that's important, too. [[16.40 hours]] And the final proposal, which was actually put into the system in that last form today, will be made by Mr Bartošek. It relates essentially to the addition of two factual elements of the offenses, § 404a and 404b, which is the response to the present situation, when certain symbols are sometimes abused, Nazi symbols are sold and others, which I think will be more convincingly spoken by the Member who prepared this amendment. For me, that's it now. I think that a number of these changes may still cause discussion, so, of course, we are at the disposal of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u5	I thank the rapporteur Helena Válková for the detailed information. I am opening a general debate in which I have the first Mr Tomáš Vymazal signed up. Before the counter comes, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. For work reasons, Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the amendment under the number of House document 5023, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. Since December 2017, I have been chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Use of Wiretapping, and in that time I have not been able to notice the inconspicuous situations in which the persons whose telecommunications operation has been monitored are not at all informed by the law on this fact. I believe that this is a consequence of the fact that the settlement of the information obligation concerning wiretaps is legally imposed on a large number of entities, primarily by the courts, without there being an umbrella body or system capable of exercising effective control over this process. The result is that the listening person not only does not receive the information he is entitled to by law, but also does not have the opportunity to contact the Supreme Court to investigate the legitimacy of the wiretap. Here I can give the example of journalist Janek Kroupa, whose telecommunications has been illegally monitored for five months, which he was only informed about after many years. To remedy this situation, I propose narrowing the current range of entities responsible for fulfilling the information obligation only to the state prosecutor, which will be much easier to control the entire process in its direction and to record the fulfilment of the information obligation. In the same way, I propose the creation of an information obligation to move from the end of the entire criminal proceedings to the end of the preparatory procedure, so that the listening parties learn about this fundamental intrusion into their rights much earlier. I had the opportunity to discuss the proposal at the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, where they feared possible compromise of the investigation processes as a result of changes in the solution of the information obligation. In view of the fact that the proposal requires its settlement only at the end of the preparatory procedure, when the investigation is already completed and its results are available to all concerned, this situation is not in danger. Another clause was the potential need to coordinate activities across the various departments of the prosecutor's office or courts. However, such a situation is already taking place, and the proposal should in fact simplify these mechanisms by overall taking over the settlement of the information obligation by prosecutors. I therefore believe that my proposal would not result in any compromising of the investigation and would also provide citizens with prior awareness of the deep interference in their privacy, as well as the possibility of defending such an intervention in the event that it is not legitimate. Thank you for considering this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u7	I thank Mr Tomáš Vymazal. Now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček - sorry, first of all, with priority rights, President of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek. Really? In that case, a factual point. I'm taking your time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to my colleague. Just a factual point, because, after the rapporteur's speech, where she spoke of Parliament's proposal 466 - where I am also one of the co-president - which was incorporated into this House press 453 and where the possibility of dismissal was mentioned, or let's say forgiving the rest of the sentence after one third, it should be added that even those particularly serious crimes which the professor and Mrs Válková specified that there are exceptions must not be against life and health and so on and so on, so there is always one condition: there must be a prime criminal. If he's a relapser, and on any other condition, he's a relapser, we can't even talk about it. No one-third option is possible for recidivists, this option is only for prime offenders. It's just to add that you, who are not fully aware of criminal law, do not think that we want a murderer or someone who is a particularly serious criminal and is committing crime repeatedly, release after one third of the sentence served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. KDU-ČSL Club Chairman Jan Bartošek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary, I have decided to make a motion to amend Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, and I respond to a long-term problem, which is currently escalating when objects with a theme promoting, in particular, Nazi but also other ideological movements are commercially distributed for the purpose of profit and to a large extent, which are aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms. The facts of the crimes relating to the ideological movement which are aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms are currently contained in Sections 403 and 404 of the Criminal Code. These, however, do not allow the negotiations in question to be punished because, in practice, the intention of the perpetrators cannot be demonstrated to support or promote these movements. In fact, however, these items are purchased and used mainly by these ideological movements and their supporters for further promotion. At the same time, the free sale of these items and its impunity and tolerance by the state contribute to the spread of awareness among the general public about these movements and reduces the perception of the seriousness and unlawfulness of their actions and ideas in the public's eyes, particularly in relation to Nazism. For this reason, I propose that two new offences be introduced into the Criminal Code, namely the crime of spreading propaganda material of a movement aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms as a new § 404a and the crime of using the symbol of a movement aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms as a new § 404b. As part of the crime, the use of the symbols of the movement aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms is further suggested in order to distinguish between the fundamental and qualified facts of the offence. At the same time, the joint liberalisation clause § 404c is also part of my proposal, which defines cases where the offence will not be committed. I, my colleagues, ask you, first of all, to discuss and support this amendment of mine, because I believe that it is not possible for people to actually make commercial goods out of the mass murderers of the Nazi Empire and sell it, as we are now witnessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u11	Thank you. Now, therefore, in the general debate, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u12	I dare to respond to my previous speaker. In fact, I agree with Mr Bartošek's surprising statement, but we are at a stage of second reading, when I would very much welcome a debate on the grounds of the constitutional law committee, or another committee, where we could discuss this matter and pregnantly qualify the filing, or the offence itself, so that we do not incur a criminal offence where the law enforcement authorities will have more problems than they have with the current concept of the criminal code in the prosecution of these offences. So, of course, I will get to know this now after the second reading, as the Member has read it, but now I say that I do not know how I will be able to stand up to it, but in any case I am willing and prepared for the KSČM club to discuss this matter and, in the form of a parliamentary proposal, to submit an amendment to the Criminal Code, where we would come to the conclusion that these forms of crime will be fit. [[16.50 hours]] So, my colleague, through Mr President, thank you for raising this issue. But we're in a situation where I can't imagine. And as a former investigator who has prosecuted these forms of crime, I fear that we should not do more harm to the law enforcement authorities than to the benefit of the urgency, form and speed of receiving these two new facts. So I'm not rejecting it. Of course, when you present it to me through the President, I will look at it and do not rule it out. But it's surprising, even though I'm very much in agreement with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u13	Mr. KDU-ČSL KDU-ČSL Jan Bartošek and with priority rights Jakub Michálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u14	Thank you. Only a brief response to my previous speaker through you, Mr Vice-President. It wasn't quite easy getting it into the sections, and it took a while. We're at second reading. I am loading the amendment, which means I respect the legislative process, just as I do not claim that it has to be discussed within a week. And on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, that's at the hearing. And the constitutionally-legal committee will deal with that. That means, I suppose you'll discuss it all there, what it means then, eventually, for practice. And I think we agree across the benches that it is not possible to make business out of mass murderers. And let's find the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u15	Thank you. Now Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek, then Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Mr Marek Benda. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present in general the two amendments that I am proposing to this press. The first concerns the cumulation of penalties. It has already been said from the rapporteur that we are putting forward together a proposal which defines in a certain way more precisely how the penalty is to be imposed so as to take into account, as far as possible, the cumulation of penalties so that the resulting penalty is adequate to what has been committed, not to make a simple arithmetic sum only with reference to the fact that the judgment of the first instance has already been condemned. In practice, this arrangement that we have today is quite naive and leads to a very problematic situation that every other prisoner sitting in our prison has more than two or more punishments. That means the man doesn't go in there for one punishment, but he gets a number of things and he gets terms and so on. And, of course, if we don't deal with this in any way, the punishments will add up, and the man will sit there longer than he needs, and it will cost us huge money. Now I've read on news server news.cz a story about some homeless guy who stole a cable and went to jail for four years. Then he stole the chocolates and went to prison for the next two years. It's all been added up. And the homeless guy's got a six-year apartment situation figured out. Six years is total punishment, but it costs taxpayers 3 million crowns. Well, of course when it adds up that naively, it's hugely expensive, inefficient. And it turned out exactly on this case that this guy got out of prison and got back into a relapse very quickly. So the punishments to work must be an adequate degree of error, and the judge should be able to evaluate it. My proposal responds to the criticism found in the Constitutional Court by the file mark II. ÚS 4022/18 and in the report of the Supreme Attorney General on the prison area. That's where he criticized the level of cumulation. He criticized that it wasn't happening. And only at the level of case law is they try to import that the courts don't actually have to sum up the penalties so arithmetically and so on. The important thing is that in the amendment I am proposing, it is explicitly added that when the second sentence is imposed, it is possible to go below the minimum threshold. Because we have several facts in the Code of Criminal Procedure, where minimum limits are set relatively strictly, and when they are added up in repeated crimes of this type, such as those stolen chocolates in relapses, such as certain drug offences and so on, when the penalties are added up, they are obviously inadequate in the census. And all we're gonna do is get these people out of jail and then they're gonna go back to relapse. I think it would also contribute to helping reduce the prison population, which we have twice as large as the population in the rest of Europe. That is the first amendment. The second amendment concerns setting clear guidelines for the amount of cash penalties. Currently, the rules are rather vague and the analysis of actual penalties imposed, as I have documented in the amendment and, as the constitutionally-legal committee has said, shows that the penalties are more benevolent for high-income groups and, on the contrary, for those low-income groups, the penalties are significantly lower. In order to achieve justice in the imposition of the penalty, it is proposed to lay down the initial condition that the amount of the cash penalty will depend on one third of the income so as to make it clear, and, of course, the court has the opportunity to derogate from this initial condition, especially with regard to, for example, the property of the perpetrator, so that it can take into account that the perpetrator has a low income, but has huge assets, so that it is quite adequate together. The last thing that is part of the second amendment is that it replaces the conversion of the cash penalty to prison days, because the current situation shows that it is among the strictest of all countries in the Council of Europe. So, in this respect, we should be repositioned to get to the level of Western states and not hold on to the perpetrators who, of course, deserve punishment, but not to keep them there long enough to be counterproductive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u17	I thank Mr Jakub Michálek. Mr Marek Benda, now. We are still in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u18	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a somewhat irregular situation, because it was not an entirely simple matter that the constitutionally-legal committee was discussing. We went the other way that we had two prints that were in the House - both of them went through the first reading and considered it necessary for the House to approve two amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code in two months - to merge into one common press, which I generally consider more correct. But, as the rapporteur has already told you, discussions on the Constitutional and Legal Committee have been completed at the beginning of February, and thanks to what took place in the country as a whole, more than four months have passed, which means that some other issues that are emerging have been opened up. I'd like to do that a little bit more in general. Indeed, we are in a situation where we have too high a number of prisoners for the population, and we are unable to do much about it. Attempts that have taken place in the past to increase financial penalties, which I think is even very correct, in a number of cases only led to the imposition of cash penalties in addition to other penalties, particularly prison sentences, so that only increases enforcement for the state, which is undoubtedly useful, but somehow it does not empty prisons for us. There are some steps that, especially in the case of those first-rates, might be aimed at being released for a third time, where I think, especially for white collar crimes, a month or a week in prison would be enough, frankly, for them to spend a week in that prison, to be careful for the rest of their lives never to get in there. Of course, general justice does not want this and feels that people are to be punished. Still, I think it's unnecessary for us to insist on serving the entire sentence or half of it, especially since, of course, it doesn't mean that those persons are still innocent. It means if they do anything, they're gonna sit down. [[17,00 hours]] The same applies to the issue mentioned here by Mr Michálek, and again from other bodies of this Chamber of Deputies, particularly in the area of juvenile crime or persons just after the age of age, so there is the accumulation of penalties, where a number of unconditional sentences suddenly lead to some banality, that a relatively high sentence of imprisonment is imposed suddenly, is completely incomprehensible to those people. And he throws them into a situation very quickly, especially in the case of teenagers and people close to the age of a teenager who don't understand it properly and then they say to you, "Well, I've got a robbery, I've been paroled for it, then I stole a bike, and suddenly I've got a hard-on sentence... And those people never go back to their normal lives, or they're very difficult to get back into their normal lives. So I would be very much in favour of trying to figure out what my colleague Michálek is saying. I don't know if we're gonna make it because we're really in a second reading situation, which means next time we can only vote yes-no. It's not like we can fix the proposals. And this brings me to Bartošek's proposal, which I think is a good thing that he drew attention to the problem and that he is dedicated to it. I am still rather upset here with the law enforcement authorities and to a certain degree of alibis that they are making a face - and here I will want the Minister, particularly on the floor of the constitutionally-legal committee, or if he is ready to speak at this point, to confirm that this is the way it is written in the paper. That really the law enforcement authorities are pretending that the mugs with the Hitler can't be prosecuted, that the calendars for Nazi bosses can't be prosecuted. I think it's cynical and obscure enough to pretend that they're not symbols and that it's not for people to be promoted, but it's only for the calendar or the cup to be sold better. I really consider it a very cynical interpretation. And, of course, we get to that part of the problem that if we pull out of it, as Bartošek does, we will only rip out the issue of Nazi symbols, so far we still have symbols and representatives of national socialism in criminal law. Likewise, we are being punished by symbols and representatives of at least Soviet communism, which has ruled us here for 40 years. Once again we get to a certain degree of differentiation and we say, "So if they can sell Hitler calendars and his aids, they'll be prosecuted because they've had a holocaust." But now that it's Stalin, Berija and their killers, it's not gonna work because they're not done with the holocaust, but they're done with the gulag. To me, this degree of in generality always seems slightly absurd, but I am glad that my colleague Bartošek pointed it out. I would very much like us to discuss why the law enforcement authorities are not able to prosecute this effectively, or it really seems like a bit of alibiism to me on their part. And the last thing I would like to do in this debate, which was here, are Mr Vymazal's proposals, virtually. I think, basically, the whole thing arose after some kind of agreement on the wiretap committee. Here we have a really big problem that we were in this country eleven years ago, when the mass leaks began to multiply into the media, but at the same time the number of wiretappings increased dramatically, so before I pushed through the House's famous muzzle bill, the first step that was made was just in criminal proceedings where it was said: If criminal proceedings were completed, it was necessary to inform the people who were being bugged and it was not used in criminal proceedings to have the Supreme Court, of course everything is over, but someone was being bugged and it was no good. In order to allow the Supreme Court, on the basis of a complaint from the person concerned, to decide whether or not the wiretap was authorised. And here, my colleague, Vymazal, quite rightly points out that we have thousands of wiretaps ordered, six to eight thousand wiretaps per year. And those people who are informed, if it were a year or two ago, I understand, of course, the cases are still going on -- but that's 11 years, and those cases where people are actually informed about it are a percentage, a fraction of when the wiretap was deployed. And if we want to have an effective - and today, just after noon, our colleague Blažek spoke of the leaks and the misuse of information leaked to the law enforcement authorities for various political fights. If we want to have effective control over when and against whom wiretaps were used, which did not serve as a basis for criminal proceedings afterwards, then I think that it is necessary, as my colleague suggests, to say, is a person in the system - and I think that in this case it should be a prosecutor who is to pay attention to the legality of the preparatory procedure and where it is his basic duty and responsibility - who is responsible and who is also responsible for the fact that the persons against whom the wiretaps have been deployed will eventually receive the information and may look after why it has happened and whether it has happened was legal or illegal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u19	Thank you. Even before the general debate with priority rights, President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. A brief response to my previous speaker. Ambassador, as I mentioned at the outset, it was not easy to write in the paragraphs so that it would be sufficiently understandable. This means that there are two amendments where one is narrowly defined against national socialism and the other is wider and covers the palette - I will literally read it here, it is § 404a: Whoever produces, participates in production, transports, transports, offers, makes publicly accessible, mediates, distributes, sells, otherwise makes available or otherwise retains propaganda material, the content of which is intended to support a movement that is directed or in the past to suppress rights and freedoms and will be punished. This means that the definition is much wider, this is an amendment that is then further developed, and of course it concerns all the movements that in the past have been aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms. That means we've had a lot of them in the past, and he remembers them all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u21	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Yes, Mr. Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u22	My colleague Bartošek basically started a wider discussion with this new thing. Now I'm wondering how to get out of this. And, of course, if we take it as a guarantee to the Constitutional and Legal Committee after the end of the second reading, we're not gonna change much. Either we accept it the way he's read it now, but it's just a yes/no. Then there will be nothing left for us to do but to ask for the press to be returned to the second reading during the third reading, which, of course, would be more complicated. But it's these surprising things. Or - I am not exactly such an expert on the Rules of Procedure as the first Vice-President of the House, Dr. Filip, so he told me, here is the procedure under § 94 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. But then we would have to load that in the general debate, but I don't really want that. [[17.10 hours]] But now that we're doing things like this surprisingly, I'd also like to read one more little change, and then I'm willing to sign up for it in a detailed debate. I would like to propose a change in § 34 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the penal code, which is - I wanted to say, as I'm sure you all know, but not, as you may know - which are limitation periods. In that regard, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and laying down detailed rules And for 20 years, it's those crimes we've known that can be imposed for a particularly serious crime, and there's an extraordinary punishment to be imposed. Most often it's connected to the murder, where the basic limitation period is 20 years. And we've talked for a long time about whether 20 years is enough or not, and if any of the perpetrator doesn't come to us after 20 and one day, and he doesn't tell me, I'm here to kill my relative, someone I know, and now I'm unpunished. [[years]] But, of course, there's an "a" behind that line. There are also those crimes associated with the period of great privatization, and that's an "a" that's important to us, too, because these are the crimes from the period of great privatization, the wild times after the 1990s. So I'm gonna take the liberty of making that change, that in this section 34 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) "20" is replaced by "30." Quite simple and in a detailed debate, I will then sign up for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u23	Thank you. I just want to be perfectly clear, § 94 para. 3 means returning the proposal to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, but you mentioned this proposal only as an option, but it did not sound like you suggested that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u24	We discussed this with the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee as well as with the petitioner, and I mentioned at the outset, Mr President, the options that are, because the petitioner, Mr Bartošek, actually recorded two offences in the context of a detailed debate, which, of course, is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we have nothing left but to confirm, as he read it or reject it. But we can't change either the comma or the colon, and that's what we should do. So if we want to change with it, then there will be nothing left for us to do but go back to second reading at the third reading and get back to it, which, of course, will prolong the discussion of this entire House press again. But I haven't designed it yet, and I'm looking at the rapporteur. So I'm not suggesting it yet. We won't be able to return it until the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u25	I understand that, because if we applied that paragraph, we would have to vote on it now after the end of the detailed debate, which has not happened, so I think it is clarified. Mrs Válková, the rapporteur, made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Please, there is an opportunity to go back further, and I have also said this to Mr Bartošek, through you, Mr Vice-President, within the House of Press 624, where the criminal code is also open, the Code of Criminal Procedure, where there are a lot of changes and we will have room for that. So I'll take that as a good signal. By the way, the limitation period is also very long in the galleys discussed by the proposal for change, and even in the media, I think even. So I'd cut it short and use the two-minute period effectively. I propose that we look at this important amendment by Mr Bartošek in another House of Press and do not brake another legislative process that has already slowed us down sufficiently, or that we do not slow down the legislative process of the House of Press 543. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u27	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Yes, Mr. Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u28	I think I can handle it on a factual note. This is not possible, because if Bartošek's colleague has read it, we will have to deal with it in the framework of the constitutional and legal committee discussion after the second reading. If my colleague Bartošek had downloaded it and left it to the House press, and now I've dropped the number, 600 something, of course it would have been, but otherwise we're going to deal with it, just like the statute of limitations, again on the constitutionally-legal committee. And I think we can deal with it in some way. And if you don't, there's still the possibility that we're gonna ask for a second reading back, and we're gonna have to discuss this in more detail. But I understand, of course, that this has been hanging for a long time and that we would also like the proposal, which was originally the House press number 466, where I and Mrs Válková are one of the co-submitters to go in there, because the legisvacation period is then from 1. 1. 2021, I think, and here we have the effectiveness of the writing so that the individual law enforcement authorities and prosecutors, the judges, get to know it sufficiently. But so far, if Bartošek's colleague doesn't withdraw it, we'll still deal with it in the constitutional law committee after the end of the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u29	Thank you, and now for the debate, Madam Secretary. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u30	Me very briefly. I'd like to ask the House not to hold things up. It's been dragging for a really long time, and it's needed, the 453, and the new amount of damage, because these are the important changes that are expected. Otherwise, as far as Mr. Bartošek's proposal is concerned, I quite agree with it, because the Nazi symbols are bothering us now. I spoke last week to Mr. Attorney General about why they're late, and I'm going to write him a letter on this subject, but I'm afraid the criminal rates he set there are somewhat shocking - three to eight years in the second paragraph. That's a bit much, and I don't think it's appropriate. As far as Mr. Vymazal's concerned, that's the back-up information on the wiretap, so be careful here. Here I think there are conceptual flaws and errors. In the proceedings before the court, the prosecutor is a party, only a party, and he cannot intervene in the proceedings and cannot do acts that interfere with the proceedings. So I'd be very careful here. Otherwise, I know all about the other proposals, so I will comment on them in the third reading. We agree with some of the vast majority, we disagree with some. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u31	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No, therefore, I am ending the general debate. There is no interest in the final words after the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate. President Bartošek, President Michálek, is registered with priority rights. President Bartošek is first in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u32	Thank you for the floor. In the general debate, I have tabled my amendment, here I am merely saying, it is set out in the system under House document 5478 and I hereby declare it and ask that it be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u33	President Michálek does not exercise the right of priority; Mr Tomáš Vymazal is next, and Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendment under the number of House document 5023, which I justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u35	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u36	Thank you. Not now, therefore, as rapporteur, but as petitioner of the amendment or amendments that have been introduced into the system and explained: under the number 4891 - supplementing the penalty for the prohibition on the possession and breeding of animals in the Law on the criminal liability of legal persons, 4892 - supplementing this penalty for the prohibition on the possession and breeding of animals in the law on the judiciary in matters of youth, and finally adding the amendment that I have put into the system together with Mr Michálek, which is intended to prevent an disproportionate accumulation of penalties, unless it is a common penalty or a summary penalty imposed as a continuation of a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u37	Thank you. President Jakub Michálek, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u38	Thank you for the floor. I hereby refer to Amendment 5510, which is an amendment to the amendment that we tabled with my colleague, Mr Válková, and I also refer to Amendment 5494, which is an amendment relating to the revision of financial penalties. Furthermore, I would like to read the amendment to Part Six, point of effectiveness, Article Roman Seven, which now reads: This law takes effect on the first day of the second calendar month following its publication. It would sound new: This law takes effect on the first day of the calendar semester following its publication.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u39	Mrs Válková will speak further. Let's give her a word, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u40	Thank you very much. It's my fault. I didn't read the number of my third amendment at that speed, it's 5478. And if I may make one technical remark, only what Mr Michálek said here by your means, Mr President. This applies to these changes, which have been made by the amendment to the Collection of Laws, except for the laws that have been distributed to the House of Members since 31 December 2019. And this press was sent, as the legislation pointed out, April 3, 2019. So we can change it, we don't have to. But it doesn't apply to the tighter regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u41	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček - so far the last one entered in the detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u42	Thank you, Mr President. The second part, the response to the honourable Member, was dealt with by the rapporteur. I therefore apply to the amendment that I have read here, that is to say, a change in the number in Section 34 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Penal Code of Number 20 to 30 for the indeterminateness of criminal offences, particularly serious crimes and privatizations. I said in a nutshell. In the long term, we are discussing the limitation of these particularly serious crimes and crimes committed during the privatisation period. So the material isn't really like a House document, but I read it, and it's pretty simple. Number 20 is replaced by number 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u43	Mrs Válková, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u44	I am demonstrating to you, then, when a person gives a changeling to a law changer that has been introduced, or that has been incorporated by a resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee from another press, how this can happen. My amendment, as the legislation has now alerted me, with Mr Michálek, is inserted into the system under number 5301. So I'm fixing it, preventing the disproportionate accumulation of penalties is number 5301. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-002-008.u45	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? She doesn't have a secretary, she doesn't have a rapporteur. There was no proposal that we should now vote on. So I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. Opening point number 10. It's about
