ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u1	376. Information of the Government on the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1106 of 28 April 2020 on measures taken under the Public Health Act I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch take the floor for the government. Please, Minister, you have the floor. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] And I would ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down. I will ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down, so that only the Members who want to discuss this point remain in the hall, and the others will go into the lobby and do not disturb... So I still think we have time... Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to inform the Chamber of Deputies on individual points in this regard. I would probably start with this perhaps the most important, and that is the question of measures to be taken under the Public Health Protection Act after the emergency, i.e. At this moment after May 17th. It is the resolution that is meant to be the measures that will be taken, but it is, of course, already adopted today and will continue to apply in the intensity of the Public Health Act, where we in particular want to maintain a ban on mass events. At this point, we are considering, on the basis of the epidemiologist's opinion from 25 May, a ban on mass events of over 500 people. It's really some kind of line that's acceptable. As we have repeatedly declared, we do not expect mass actions to be held in the order of thousands and tens of thousands of people, but, indeed, with a limit number of 500 people, this can be set on the basis of the Public Health Act. Similarly, according to the Public Health Act, schooling, schooling, this law allows the Minister of Health, or the Ministry of Health, to issue such extraordinary measures and schooling will be regulated in groups of 15 persons as presented. Furthermore, the operation of the spa rehabilitation care will be limited to some extent, although it is released for insured persons today, but under certain rules, conditions, this will, of course, continue. As well as the obligation to allocate the capacity of beds in regions for the sick from social services facilities. Today it is set to 10 beds per 100,000 inhabitants per region. There we still want this measure to be in place so that these beds are available if a COVID-19 epidemic occurs in a social service facility, so it was possible to move the infected seniors into these spare capacities. [[to:]] Similarly, after an emergency, we want the rules of implementation so called "realization" to be maintained. smart quarantines, which are also determined by extraordinary measures of the Ministry of Health in terms of information transfer between regional health stations, laboratories, ministry etc. These are simply the rules that are set up, and the smart quarantine as a project that is crucial especially for ending the emergency situation must be maintained so that we are able to effectively capture positive cases of patients, their contacts and place them in quarantine and address any specific outbreaks of the disease. It is also connected with electronization, with electronic applications, reports to the system, it is all dealt with really according to emergency measures of the Ministry of Health. Rules will also be maintained for the termination of the quarantine of employees in health and social services, where special conditions are provided under the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health, which apply specifically to health professionals and social workers, so as not to paralyze any health or social operations. So that's another area that will be preserved after the emergency. As well as a very discussed area - and I would like to stress this, because there were various misinformations in the media today, I do not know whether desired or unwanted - about wearing protective equipment, virtually. A drape, after an emergency. I will certainly enforce it, and today it is regulated by the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health under the Public Health Act, to continue wearing drapes in public, in public areas and after the end of the emergency situation, because we believe that wearing drapes is one of the effective tools for preventing the spread of the disease, especially at a time when we are releasing individual measures. With the fact that, of course, if the situation develops positively, that is to say, there will not be any more massive increase in the number of newly positive patients due to the unwinding of the measures we are planning, so we are ready to end the drapes in June, as we have declared. With the fact that it would then continue to be an obligation to wear drapes indoors, including e.g. Public transport under some defined conditions. So maybe that's the important thing that's moving the media now, if the drapes are mandatory after the emergency, or if they're not. I say they will, because they are not regulated through crisis measures, but are regulated by extraordinary measures by the Ministry of Health, and I think that is correct. That this should not be linked to an emergency. So these are probably the basic areas that will still apply after the emergency, after, say, 25 May, respectively. 17 today. May, as the emergency is set. So much for the basic areas, I guess. Or I'm prepared to answer some more detailed questions. As for the second point, the proposal for legislative amendments, which would allow the central purchases of protective work aids, especially from Czech producers, is, of course, a matter which is particularly in the Gesture of the Ministry of Regional Development. However, I think that the situation today is that central purchases are being closed, they have already been closed at the Ministry of Health. I think that even at the Ministry of the Interior gradually, we have informed that there will be distribution in the following two months to individual providers as before. But there should gradually be some standardization of supplier-customer relations and the fact that hospitals and health care providers themselves will be buying their protective work aids for health care, and not that it would be dealt with in such a provisional way, let's say operationally centrally from the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of the Interior. In this resolution of the Chamber of Deputies it is said that delivery should be ensured especially from Czech producers, but here I have to say that this cannot be set up in this way. This is certainly obvious, because if it goes, and of course it will also be clear that it will go according to the Public Procurement Act, it is not possible to favour any producer, even Czech, and it will have to be established a clear procedure according to the law, where it is not possible to take into account whether it is a Czech producer or a foreign producer. In this respect, the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies cannot be fulfilled in the sense that there would be some legislative change with the preferences of Czech producers. This is not how the system is set up. The law is governed by the directive and this cannot be preferred by any manufacturer. So much for the information of the House of Deputies' resolution, especially about those measures that will still apply after the emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I will now ask that Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. You basically answered beyond that, because the first part of the resolution concerns those measures that will be in the relationship of the Health Protection Act after the emergency is over, so that is the first part. The second part concerns purchases, where we, as the Chamber of Deputies, asked the government to set a deadline until 11 May, so maybe we can still discuss the matter. I am glad that at least the part of the Members who are interested remain here. As a member of the Central Crisis Staff, and I see a second colleague over there, KDU-ČSL MP, I am glad that my colleagues have stayed here, even though we have the information. I am sorry that there are no other Members who sometimes do not have the information, or are demanding, and they are not here by any chance. But I get it, advanced hour, almost 6:30. So the information regarding purchases as such, although it is not the subject of what we are discussing right now, the Central Crisis Staff has been informed that colleagues from the Federal Republic of Germany have the way in which their law on public procurement and how to prefer domestic producers. That is why we wanted colleagues - the Ministry of Industry and Trade - to be informed or inspired by colleagues from Germany. And that's why we gave the deadline. And if you come to the conclusion that something like this can be applied to the conditions of Czech Republic, we will be very happy to help you, and so I am speaking in particular for KSČM Members, we will also help you to push for such a legislative change even now in an emergency. But I say again, we're supposed to discuss the measures that are in relation to health protection, so I don't want to make any unnecessary comments on the other part yet, because let's say we can discuss this at the next meeting, which will probably be scheduled soon. So far, thank you, and I'm waiting for the debate to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mr Černohorský signed up. Please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u6	Thank you for the floor. Only by your means, Mr President, would I correct Mr Ondráček. There's a deadline until the 10th, not the 11th. Why am I stressing the date? The point is that the resolution, as the honourable Member here pointed out, was that the government should provide us with information by the fifth. And even though I checked the e-mail, there's nothing there. And that's why we had to arrange this point. I would expect that if the Chamber of Deputies decided that the government would give her some information, that information would be sent to us, which would, of course, save us much more time. I will therefore add to Mr Ondráček when he said that some colleagues are not here. They're not, because unfortunately, or we're at a bit of a reduced time or a bit of a low number right now, so, of course, some of them are watching either from the offices or from the homes, because the stream is going live. But I wonder, Minister, why didn't we get the information? Because sometimes it happens to us here that the terms, whether they apply to interpelling, I understand that it is of course very difficult at the moment, but if we are at least informed that you need more time to get information or any communication from the Ministry of Health. I'd ask someone else, but unfortunately, I don't have anyone else here for government information, so I'm gonna direct all the questions to you. [[The Minister of Health is the only member of the government present in the hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u7	Thank you. I don't have anyone else registered for the debate. Mr. MP... Okay, I'm registering your application for the debate. Does the Minister want to answer now or finally? In conclusion. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u8	Good afternoon or evening. Thank you for the floor. We know today that we actually have a prom. So it's probably a town that's bigger than Olomouc. And now we've heard that the drapes - the Ministry has the right - we'll wear them until June. And I'm asking if it wouldn't be more reasonable, I understand that there are concerns, but if there are so few people who can carry it around somewhere, i.e. actually protects the others, so if the masks, the respirators, the tools that we'd hide, I.e., save them and dedicate them when they come in, and I think that in the fall, that wave of flu or some kind of virosis and poison is going to be a problem, then maybe eventually all of this saved as if to use it. It's just a question. I think that the whole nation, or the limited amount, should wear a drape after all, and we know that, in fact, only a pardon, a few people have it, so actually, there's no one to deliver it in this republic unless we open the border. Thank you. If I can get some information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u9	Thank you. I don't see anyone else enrolled in the debate. Mr. Cernohorsky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u10	If I may, then I would appreciate the Minister's reply in the debate, so that I do not have to exercise the right of priority so that I do not have to respond to it after, if there are any further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u11	Okay. So, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u12	Thank you. I am happy to answer you and Mr Brázdil. Now to you, Mr. Ambassador. I certainly have no problem to add the information in writing, as I presented it here today, because, as I mentioned, this is true, the general measures that will still apply after the emergency. But I'm sure I'll deliver the information in writing. I'm sorry she didn't come. But otherwise, I just said all the measures that will apply after the emergency. I don't think there's anything major missing. As far as Mr Brázdil is concerned, this may be a bit of a misunderstanding, because what we have presented today was the result of a population study which was not intended to tell how many people are suffering from the disease, but how many people actually have antibodies, which means they have suffered it. And now we know how much she's suffering. We have the active cases that are in the population. I'm sure there's not too many of them compared to the total population. And the number of active cases is dropping. On the other hand, because we're making these measures unfold, and each release means more contact with people, between people, that is, if we're releasing shops, if we're releasing restaurants, etc., it's just something that we really think these drapes really are, and in the opinion of experts, given that they're an epithelial infection, they're some kind of prevention of the spread of the disease. And that's why we think they should be mandatory at least, let's say, until June, so that we can assess whether these dispersals have any major implications. And if they do not have major impacts, we know that the disease is simply not spreading, and in that case it is no longer entirely necessary to have a general obligation to wear a drape. So that's why in June. Now to bridge the time of dispersal of these measures, to assess whether it will have any effect on any increase in the number of patients tested positively. He doesn't have it yet, luckily. When we look at the data from yesterday, they're very good compared to the record-highest number of tests we did yesterday, almost 9,500 tests for yesterday and 77 seizures, I think, so it's very good, the data. [[Nesroz.]] But we'll see if there's any spikes after we unplug any more traffic. But otherwise, drapes, I really think, and I am convinced that the Czech Republic was a certain pioneer in this, it was actually the first country that introduced the obligation to wear drapes, and other countries were inspired by us. And that's why I think that, given that the data is very good, I believe that the drapes are to blame, in quotation marks, in a positive sense, and that we should put them off in general only in June and then leave exceptions, virtually. some rules concerning, for example, public transport, perhaps some shops and so on, simply where more people are concentrated in some internal areas. But otherwise, the general rule of wearing a drape could be abandoned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u13	Thank you. I'll look around again. Mr Cernohorsky, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u14	I usually ask questions very quickly. My point, Mr Doctor here - sorry, through Mr President - is also to suggest whether we will, therefore, be in the future, given that the pandemic may eventually return, create some supplies. [[Razor]] At this point, I don't know how it is abroad, but we have actually banned exports. So what Mr Ondráček has indicated here is that if you can't actually bring anything from abroad at this time, protective equipment for doctors, pharmacists and others, so if at this time you don't start fully using the Czech production capacities, because many have switched to the production of drapes and various protective equipment, and therefore do not start creating supplies in the central warehouse for the future, because now we have learned that what we do not have in stock as if it were not. So if at this point it's not time to rethink the strategy and start building the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u15	Thank you. The rapporteur is reporting, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u16	Mr. Colleague, I will give you information from today's Central Crisis Staff, where it was said that the reserves in state material reserves for the time of peace, as we might call it, will be for one month, and for all segments, which are, starting with health, education, social services and all others. This means that now purchases are being dealt with precisely for the state's material reserves to be reserves if such a situation occurs. That is why we have given the second paragraph of the resolution, where you rightly said, and for that I apologize, the date until 10th, not 11th May, and there is the possibility of some legislative changes, because even today at the meeting the director of state material reserves said that they have prepared some bill that would regulate the law on public procurement. I asked him to send it to us in some way, and I would like it when it's a little quiet to sit down and we would really make it possible if there was such a situation that it could be purchased directly without the law on public procurement, or even Czech producers. But that's probably the thing about us legislators to take it up with, and I think this thing, this crisis, has taught us, and we're going to try to find some common solutions. And I believe it's going to be across the political spectrum because we've shown that if we want to, we can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u17	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u18	I think, and now it's not exactly the atmosphere, that it's a very serious thing, what we're talking about. I'm the last person who's happy to be here dependent on imports of such key commodities as protective equipment and medicines from third countries. It's not just China, it's India. Today, a third of global drug production is concentrated in China. It's similar with India. India shut down total exports two months ago. And that is, of course, something that can endanger the security not only of the Czech Republic but of the whole of Europe. And as Minister of Health, a few months ago at the EPSCO Council of Health Ministers, I called for the European Union and the European Commission to develop a clear strategy to be more self-sufficient not only in the Czech Republic, but indeed in Europe in terms of such strategic commodities as medical devices or medicines, because the dependence on China is wrong from my point of view and it turns out that it can simply be problematic for the future. And we saw it in this crisis. So it's a lesson, I'm sure. We should support Czech production, no doubt. I think this is happening that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has some programmes in this regard to support local industry. But it is not only about Czech production, but it is about Europe in general, in order for Europe to wake up in this regard and realize that it is a bit of a train runaway and that these strategic commodities are needed... to attract their production back in Europe, to control quality, to control stocks and not to be dependent on imports from third countries, where the uncertainty is relatively high, in such a crisis situation as it has now become apparent to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u19	Thank you, Minister. I'm checking the O.R. to see if anyone's interested. I see no one, I end the general debate. I'll ask for any final words. The rapporteur is interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u20	I would like to propose a resolution that we take note of the information and ask the Minister for the information to be provided in writing. The Minister said that in the course of the debate, and I was now talking to him about it, that it was no problem for him. So we get it, colleagues, if we approve it, as a House document, and then we can work with it in the future. So that would be the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-014-376.u21	Thank you. At this point, I would like to proceed to the debate in detail. The rapporteur has read the motion for a resolution. I shall end the detailed debate and begin the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 241, 85 Members and Members, for 52, were registered against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the resolution has been approved, and I conclude this item and I conclude the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good evening.
