ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u1	251. Measures taken by the Ministry of Health in relation to the spread of coronavirus I'm opening this point. Among the presidents of the MPs, there has been an agreement on the grémia that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch will be the first to speak to whom I hereby give the floor. Everyone else in the room, I'm gonna ask for some peace. And even if you let the Minister in the speaker's desk, he'd be happy. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the current situation concerning the Covid-19 epidemic caused by the new type of coronavirus. We've already had this topic here once, which means I'm not going to go all the way to the beginning of an epidemic that started in the epicenter of Wu-chan in the province of Chu-pei in China, where, among other things, 80 percent of all the infected from all the countries in the world are still coming from, even though the epidemiological situation has evolved since then, because China, according to the latest data, is a country where the number of newly infected is quite significantly decreasing, which is good news. [[15.30 hours]] On the contrary, the infection has now moved to other countries, primarily South Korea, a country with the second highest number of infected people, and then, unfortunately, Italy as a European country, which is, with its current number, about 2,000 people infected, i.e. China and South Korea, a third country. The situation in Iran is also problematic, where, from my point of view, we do not entirely have valid data. So these countries are now the ones where the number of infected is growing the most, about 500 to 800 extra cases a day. So does the number of deaths. We are certainly following the situation particularly in Italy, in the northern Italian regions, where the infection is now spreading primarily in Europe. These cases, which we see and are newly confirmed within European countries, are more or less primarily from Italy. Likewise, the first five cases in the Czech Republic, which have thus been tested positively so far. For this morning we examined overall in the Czech Republic from 23. 1. 236 people on the presence of coronavirus and of which five positive findings, three on Sundays and two we announced so today, at night they were tested. Fortunately, they are all contacts between each other, essentially into two groups, or three thus. He is a tourist who was in the Veneto area and here he is probably infected. So today we confirmed a second contact with this person, the lady who was with him on vacation in Venet, respectively. It was a family vacation. So that's one group of people that are, of course, then the downstream contacts are in the home quarantine. They haven't had a disease yet. The second person, another who was infected, is from Prague, a professor who was also mentioned by the media, who is also hospitalized at Na Bulovka Hospital. And the third are students from Milan, an American and Ecuadorian student who traveled from Milan through Budapest, Vienna, Brno and Prague. All these confirmed patients are in isolation at infectious clinics. At this moment four on Bulovka, the fifth, the newly confirmed lady, at Masaryk Hospital in Ústí nad Labem. All of them are good, in terms of clinical signs the course is very mild, so all of these patients belong to the group of approximately 80 percent of the world's patients who have mild course of the disease. We already know that for sure, because we have data that is very stable, let's say, on the general population of roughly 92,000 people worldwide, so we know that over 80 percent, 83 percent are really mild courses of the disease, very similar to classical flu or some respiratory infect. And as far as critical cases go, they're about 3%, and the rest are cases that are more serious, require hospitalization, about 15 percent. So that's the distribution of the patients. And once again, the five confirmed in the Czech Republic belong to the mildest form, or the mildest form of the disease. The standard work of public health authorities is currently underway, which means district health stations. Thus, especially the Regional Hygiene Station in the capital city of Prague and the Regional Hygiene Station in Ústí nad Labem, in terms of tracing these infected persons, from the point of view of their contacts, potentially infected persons who might have come into contact with them. This has been going on very intensively since Sunday. We've already tracked down a number of these contacts. All those who may be at risk, such as taxi drivers, may it be the bus driver in which the students were driving, are placed in a home quarantine. At the moment, we have more than 300 people in the Czech Republic placed in a home quarantine. But, of course, that number is changing in time. We agreed that we would always have current statistics by Friday morning. There is no doubt that the number of people will increase, because these are not only the contacts of the infected, but they are also others who return from the affected sites and have an epidemic history and the epidemiologist from the county health station decided to place them in a home quarantine. So much for the current situation. I think that the public health authorities are doing their job in this regard, and they are handling the situation. There is really no assumption of any wider epidemic, any community spread within the Czech Republic. It's really five confirmed cases for those so-called. Travel history, people who were infected in Italy and were subsequently properly captured by the system in the Czech Republic isolated, so that they simply could not spread this disease anymore. Of course, we cannot rule out that the number will increase in the coming days, just as we see it in the majority, in the vast majority of Europe's countries now. And I don't mean just Italy right now, where the situation is most serious, but of course it's Germany, it's France, Spain and others. Although I say again, at this point we do not have any signals about a wider epidemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic, but some units of cases may increase in the coming days. However, we are taking maximum measures to prevent the spread of the disease as far as possible or the introduction of other cases into the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Health has issued several protection measures under the Public Health Act, which aims, on the one hand, to interrupt direct air links with China, now with South Korea and Italy, the northern regions of Italy, where the frequency of these direct flights is relatively large, even from South Korea itself, so these flights will be interrupted from tomorrow. As far as northern Italy is concerned, 14 days and then we will evaluate the situation. In the case of South Korea, for an indefinite period. But, of course, the situation will essentially be evaluated in the coming days and weeks, depending on how the epidemiological situation develops. These are the measures relating to the ban on flights. We have also taken measures that are not, of course, entirely popular, I understand, but relate to a higher gathering of people, often with an international element, which is specifically a biathlon in New Town, Moravia. Mass action, 100,000 people. After consulting epidemiologists, we have actually come to the view, and this has been proposed to the Security Council of the State that this action is to be conducted without spectators, that the risk of introducing new cases of coronavirus or any spread to the community within the framework of the relatively mass action is very significant and therefore it has been decided to issue a safeguard measure. So these races will run without spectators. As far as further action is concerned, we'll discuss it tomorrow at the State Security Council. It is true that these measures are now spreading relatively within European countries in the sense of banning mass action. It's France, it's Germany, it's Switzerland. It's the numbers of either a thousand, over a thousand people, or in France over 5,000 people. Actions that are prohibited at the moment. For example, the Geneva Motor Show, which is very popular, etc. We are not in this as the Czech Republic in any way anomalous and it seems that the measure is proportional to the situation we see in Europe. [[15.40 hours]] As far as the area of operation of the capture system and their testing, as I said, we have tested 236 people this morning, of which five are positive. This testing continues to take place at the State Health Institute within the National Reference Laboratory. However, we have newly enabled testing in other laboratories. It is the Institute of Health in Ostrava, the Faculty Hospital in Motol, the Faculty Hospital in Hradec Králové and the Hospital in České Budějovice. So these are the laboratories that are already testing, so that we can speed up the process, even if everything is under the gesture of the National Reference Laboratory at the State Institute of Health. We're assuming that the number of samples will rise, so we don't want any delays. We are introducing a new system where we want patients to not actually get into medical facilities, as far as possible, in any kind, whether they are practical doctors or hospitals. We want them to be tested at home if they have any symptoms and suspicions of this disease. We are discussing this intensively with the relevant infectious workplaces, health care services in individual regions, where testing in the home environment should take place from the end of this week. It's quite complicated logistically, but I believe we can handle it. We're working very hard on this right now. There will be one number where one can call, then it will be transferred to the relevant county health department, locally responsible in its region, and it will then decide on a follow-up procedure regarding the patient's possible testing regulation. But we just want him to stay indoors and not have to go anywhere in the hospital, where, of course, there is a greater risk of getting infected. We will also see how the number of infected will develop. It is clear that as the infection develops, we will have to differentiate from the clinical course of the disease, that bed capacity in infectious compartments must be earmarked especially for those serious cases, for those about 15 percent of people who need hospitalization or are in some critical condition, they need a ventilated bed, so in short, these capacities must be earmarked for these patients and the lighter ones will be in the home quarantine. But that's not on the agenda yet, because the number of infected is relatively small. Domestic quarantines are standardized by county health stations. The system works, there's no problem. Really, if there's a history, the county health department is taking it. When it comes to the debate on protective equipment, which is now quite an up-to-date question, namely drapes, then even more important respirators as protective equipment, there is a relatively complicated situation not only in the Czech Republic, but in principle throughout Europe and the world. Today, the demand for these protective equipment is huge, in the order of tens, perhaps hundreds of millions worldwide. We deal with this situation very intensively within the Czech Republic. Today we had negotiations with key manufacturers of these protective equipment. We're going to take precautions. Of course, we also dealt with hospitals, we communicate with other groups of doctors. The truth is, the situation is complicated in the sense that capacity is limited. That means we have to differentiate a little bit, too. For us, it is important that these protective devices are now primarily used by health professionals, which means that they are intended for health care, where health professionals are in the first line, and in the first place certainly to hospitals where these patients are present or are hospitalized, so that there is a need for these protective devices to be available, and then in other segments such as primary care, practical doctors, practical doctors for children and adolescents, outpatient specialists and pharmacists, dentists. We are now discussing this within the scope of the options we have at our disposal, how to provide at least some basic protective equipment for these groups. I must say very strongly that it is essential for us to have these protective devices primarily by health professionals. This is the risk group, most at risk, so it is not entirely appropriate for people to buy drapes or respirators in pharmacies and so on, because we really must now allocate these capacities to the health sector, and that is what we are going to do in the coming days within, as we say, the capacity options of individual manufacturers and the situation on the global market, as we see it. We are also ready to use the Administration of State Material Reserves, which has a certain amount of protective equipment. That's what we're dealing with now. The management of state material reserves has created demand to increase reserves even more, but, as I say, the situation is not quite simple in this regard in the market. So much for basic areas. I really try to devote myself to this issue 24 hours a day, from morning to evening. I think we are trying to communicate as much as possible, we are as transparent to the public as possible, we want to be undoubtedly cautious, we want to share information. On the other hand, I repeat, there is no reason for any panic, any hysteria, food buyout or anything like that. The situation in the Czech Republic is under control at the moment, we are not facing any epidemic that would spread in the Czech Republic, although we cannot rule out any increase in the coming days. But at this point, there is definitely no threat of massive quarantine measures, closure of areas, cities and so on. This really is not on the agenda at all right now. All people should be responsible for their health in this regard, following the instructions that we give through various channels, including text messages to mobile phones for people who may be traveling to affected areas to observe their health, to stay at home, not to see doctors or hospitals because of the risk of spreading the disease, and if they have such symptoms to deal with it immediately. This is happening now, we see it in the examples of tested and positively tested patients, that it has been dealt with in the same way. I think everyone who has something to do with this is doing their best at the moment. There are information lines at all county health stations that match. Nonstop information line at the State Health Institute, the Ministry of Health works, handles questions from citizens and the wider professional public, so I think the situation is developing quite well at the moment, but as I say, we cannot rule out any change in the coming weeks. Even in the last few weeks, we can see what the dynamics of the epidemic are that since the location primarily in Wuchan, China, we are actually dealing with new cases already around the world, on all continents, even to varying degrees. We will monitor the situation, respond adequately to it. We work with the World Health Organization, with the ECDC, with all the structures in charge. On Friday, there is an extraordinary meeting of health ministers in Brussels where we will once again share information and inform the Italian party in particular about what it looks like. I'm ready to give more information if there's any demand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u3	Thank you, Minister. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. The Minister of the Interior, Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, will speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to supplement the Minister of Health very briefly. We are in a situation where the Ministry of Health is the one responsible for coordinating the measures, so the Minister has explained to you all the steps that his ministry takes to protect the health of the population. The Ministry of the Interior is, of course, a department of law in charge of crisis management, but in this situation the main coordinating body is the Ministry of Health and we are all following his instructions. The Security Council of the State is meeting regularly. The last meeting was Monday. The next meeting awaits us on Wednesday and, of course, we are ready to meet properly as needed to respond to the situation. For the Ministry of the Interior, respectively. I want to assure you that we have done everything we can to be prepared for all alternatives. We are based on instructions The Security Councils of the State have developed appropriate type plans and we are ready to continue to follow them. Since these are specific security forces and some professions or expertise are relatively irreplaceable, after consulting the Police President and the General Director of the Fire Rescue Corps, we have taken steps to ensure that all members of both the police and the Fire Rescue Corps who have moved in the past or who have returned from those regions that are affected by the Coronavirus take up a 14-day quarantine, regardless of their history, so as to avoid any potential problems in the future with these congregations. I want to assure you that both police and firefighters are equipped with appropriate protective equipment. I have now noted a debate on when the moment of possible deployment of these protective equipment is due to occur in the direct performance of the service. I want to make it clear that we have not yet received any instructions in this regard, which means that the situation has not been evaluated by the Ministry of Health or other relevant bodies in order to issue protective aids for direct service to the police or the Fire Rescue Corps. However, these protective equipment are available in sufficient quantities and stored. What awaits us in the future is what the Minister has been talking about, there is a debate about ensuring a sufficient amount of protective equipment. We are ready to proceed in accordance with the legal approvals we have and the relevant laws of the Czech Republic allow the government to ensure that deliveries are made to the extent and volume as needed. I'm joining what the Minister of Health said in that appeal to keep people calm. There's no reason to buy out supermarkets. I have seen a very fundamental debate in the media about how many doses of food the Czech Republic has stored on the State Material Reserves. The number that was presented that we have supplies for 1.3 days, of course, looks strange. I want to warn you that 1.3 days of supply means 13 million daily food benefits, and I want to assure you all that the State's material reserves are not intended to subtract the standard supply chain. Of course, the food or the food that comes from manufacturers, suppliers and retailers will not be lost anywhere, and even in the worst crises that we have seen, whether it was China or Italy, in relation to coronavirus, there are no major supply problems. So buying supermarkets doesn't make any sense, of course, and it makes things more difficult. We will, of course, deal with events with a large participation of people, it has also fallen here, it is also within the competence of the Ministry of Health. At the Security Council of the State, because the Ministry of the Interior has received such a task, I will submit a list of events that await us in the coming days, and the Security Council of the State, in turn, will examine other relevant authorities how to stand up to these actions. For the Home Office, I would like to say that we are following pre-approved plans. We are prepared for the development of the situation and are able to respond according to the instructions of the Security Council of the State or. others. Thank you for your attention and I believe that we will have a constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u5	Thank you. I am launching a general debate in which Members of Parliament - Dvořák... With priority, President Rakušan has asked for the floor, and I would ask you, Mr President, if you would also take the role of rapporteur as the first speaker in the debate today. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u6	Well, thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the floor, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now really do it purely, and I will also interpret the opinion of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic and the Association of Local Authorities. Surely it is not appropriate, and in this I agree with both previous speakers, ministers, to spread any panic, because panic many times means more danger than the disease itself. What I would like to ask, and I think that, in agreement with the chieftains within the Czech Republic, or with the mayors and mayors of cities and municipalities in our country, to come from above, that is, from the government, some uniform procedure, how and in which situations to proceed. It cannot simply happen that regional borders mean a limit to how we will behave in certain situations where we want to prevent an epidemic from actually spreading. It is simply not possible that one bus crossing between the regions has to open all the doors in one region, there was some special disinfection, arrived in the other region, and that bus driver would no longer have to do it. It is not possible that large meetings, cultural events and so on could not be held in one region in the Czech Republic, and this was possible in the other region. And they are not just differences between regions in the Czech Republic. They are the differences between individual municipalities and cities. And as mayor of nine years' experience, I would appreciate one thing. Instead of having the County Hygiene Station, which I have information from my fellow mayor Kolín, he sends us manuals on how people should wash their hands, disinfect and so on. We're pretty good at explaining that to these people. But let us trust a little self-government in the Czech Republic. Let's trust experienced mayors. Let us trust experienced representatives, alderman. Let's trust the experienced captains. Because these are people who are used to dealing with crisis situations within the Czech Republic. These are the people who survived during the flood, those are the people who were able to cope with all sorts of crisis situations. And if these people get clear instructions, clear instructions as the Security Council of the State looks at them as they should proceed, so vice versa, if these people, the chieftains, mayors will have clear instructions, manuals, they will have materials for people, so they will ensure that panic does not spread in the Czech Republic, because they are great practitioners, who first know how to communicate well with their citizens, are close to them, they have various information channels, whether they are city newsletters, city Facebooks, twitters, and so on, when they can reach out to citizens with relevant information. So what do I do with the government of the Czech Republic, respectively. I'm asking the State Security Council, there are three things. One. Invite one of the representatives to your meeting whether the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Authorities, simply someone who has experience with self-government and has sufficient clearance to attend your meeting as a guest. That's my first request. The second request I have for you. As the Security Council of the State, give a binding opinion that will respect all regions and cities in the Czech Republic, a procedure that will prevent the spread of the epidemic, but also the spread of panic within the Czech Republic, because the panic is not appropriate. And now I'm gonna be a little ironic. I'd appreciate it more than taking pictures with a stethoscope around my neck and a white coat, if there was simply some uniform methodology that would help the authorities, because the mayors and the captains are waiting for it. This is not a political attack, a political attack, it is a report, information that I transfer here to the Chamber of Deputies from the environment of mayors of cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. It's not even conflicting, just please move on rationally. We are a small state that clearly deserves a unified qualified procedure, and let us trust local authorities that have long been able to deal effectively with crisis situations of a variety of nature and will certainly help you deal effectively with this situation as well. Let's not panic, let's solve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u7	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister of the Interior Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u8	I will only respond very briefly to President Rakušan. I am invited to the Ministry of the Interior on Friday by the individual directors of the regional authorities together with their staff responsible for crisis management, so I am ready to hand over information from the State Security Council meeting on Monday and Wednesday. And so do we plan for the next days and weeks of meetings of the various municipal secretaries with extended scope. We're going to have to do it twice, because there's a lot of them. But I want to assure you that we are thinking about self-government, and this is how we have planned the next few days and communication with these responsible representatives of self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u9	Thank you. The President of Stanjura shall speak with priority. I will ask President Rakušan to take up the role of rapporteur. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u10	Thank you for the floor. Firstly, I want to express the pleasure that we can debate this issue today. I just want to remind you that our colleague, my colleague, Professor Svoboda, proposed a debate on coronavirus and public administration measures on 28 January. At that time, we had no one infected in the Czech Republic. How did the vote go? From movement YES zero votes for, from ČSSD one vote for, from KSČM one vote for. The motion was not accepted. We could have been debating this more than a month ago, and we could have avoided the chaotic actions that the government is doing. And I'm going to point out some of them now, and I'm going to ask you, if there isn't a prime minister here who probably has a press conference on this subject, then I'm going to ask the Minister of Health what effect some of the measures have. For example, the government with great pomp has decided to cancel direct flights first from China and this week from northern Italy and South Korea. I would like to ask you what the bonus is that we banned direct flights because we lost information like the Czech Republic. I would rather expect anyone who arrives in the Czech Republic to inform us whether he has been in China in the past weeks or in other areas where coronavirus occurs to a greater extent. We don't have any such information, then some foreigner gets infected and we find out who she's met and which cities she's visited. Today, when you can fly the way you want, you can transfer - and I know that the measures are in other countries, that screening is taking place at the airport, that even measures the temperature for all those who arrive, that everyone is writing out forms where they clearly declare whether they were in China or were not - so we have lost the possibility at least for direct flights. So I want to ask the Minister of Health whether we, as the Czech Republic, have a record of how many Čech are present in the Czech Republic, as well as foreigners who have visited China, Iran, South Korea, northern Italy in recent weeks. I'm afraid we don't have any such records. We can laugh about it, but it's just not messy... Then the Minister of Industry will say - he is right - we banned direct flights, but they can transfer, so nothing really happens. What effect do these measures have in addition to the fact that we have lost the opportunity to do some screening from those people who fly directly from China or from other countries with an increased incidence of coronavirus? I don't think so. Then I want to ask the Minister of Health why he chose Biathlon as a victim and not other sports. Where's the system approach, the systematic approach? I would understand if the rules were the same for all events, such as sports, and then we could debate whether or not the rules are set correctly. First hockey league game tonight, Friday, too. If you look at the average number of visitors, we'll actually find that there'll be more people in those stadiums today than there would be a daily visit to New Town. I really don't understand why you chose the biathlon. I don't understand at all. If it was for all sports, I'd understand. Maybe they wouldn't like it. Because there are thousands, this is what the MP says. [[Walking]] But on Sparta - Hundreds of people are coming this weekend, aren't they? And today, thousands of people aren't coming to hockey. Thousands of people are coming! Then why did you choose only a biathlon? What is systematic and systemic about this solution? I've noticed today that the government is ready, and it's a good thing to compensate for the losses due to the government's decision that the Biathlon World Cup will be without spectators. I want to ask who. These are not just organizers, this concerns tens, perhaps even more, small businessmen in the Highlands, by which you have reduced sales and profits by this decision. I want to ask what rules for compensation for government intervention will be given especially to small businessmen. Of course, even the organizers, because the losses are in tens of millions, but we have to think about the small ones where the losses may be in tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands. But once again, in their annual turnover, these are significant amounts. So I don't understand the measure at all. Mr. Docent Svoboda, who, among other things, is a member of the Health Committee in our club - actually said today when we talked about it, that the medical question is actually clear. Because those who understand this are ready, they know what to do, but in our opinion, the government is only making it harder for them instead of making it easier for them. So I would like to ask the Minister of Health what he did for the practitioners and their sisters who are in the first line of contact with patients. Not every patient calls from the house that he has any symptoms - and whoever does it, well, we can appreciate it, but many of them will come to those offices. We've got respirators for practice, anyone? Okay, we're sending them to China. If we had enough, we wouldn't have a problem with that. Why wouldn't we share if we had enough? But we have an acute shortage. So what did you do for the practitioners and nurses who are in the first line of human contact? And we can't blame people for going to the doctor and not knowing exactly what they are, just not feeling well. I think that even those unnecessarily strong statements to the public that it's unnecessary panic and hysteria - I think people have legitimate concerns. And instead of being clear and system-based, the government comes with chaos. That's how the Security Council of the State ends, the Vice Prime Minister - he's not here right now, but I know he's here - Jan Hamáček, Home Secretary, says "I'm going to propose an emergency" to the Prime Minister to say it's bullshit. And then you wonder to people that they are concerned when the two highest-ranking members of the government have a completely conflicting view of such a serious matter as declaring an emergency? What do these citizens have to choose from? The Prime Minister's recommendation to watch the children and report which of the classmates was on vacation. What's that? So either the state says, "I'm interrupting teaching," or the state says, "I'm not interrupting teaching." That's a system approach again. And not as if a list of advices on the Internet, which is issued by the health service, and which are binding, are not binding, no one knows. The President of Rakušan spoke of this, as well as his colleagues from the government. Then when they call the county health department, they just say, "Come on, we wrote it, but it's like we really really don't know exactly." Nobody answers the mayors - should we close schools and kindergartens, or shouldn't we? Then I hear the public is hysterical and journalists contribute to it. I don't know how many press conferences the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health had. A lot. And then you wonder if the public is worried? The Vice Prime Minister will say emergency, and the Prime Minister will say that a biathlon can't have spectators, other sports can. What about cultural events? Can they run, can't they run? Whose responsibility is it if there is no unified system approach? I don't want to criticize the individual measures right now, I'm criticizing the chaoticness and the unsystemic approach. And don't be mad at me, but with that biathlon, I can think of a strange political connection to why this sport. I remember the debate about the establishment of the National Sports Agency. I don't know which sports were against and which were for. [[Son of a bitch.]] Oh, my God. Then explain it to me. Mr. Governor Vondrák is nodding his head. Then try to explain to me, Mr. Governor, how you can see that only a biathlon cannot have spectators and other sports can. What's logical about that? I don't think there's anything logical about it. If they said: all events over 300 or 500 or 1,000 - I would leave it to experts - are risky, we ban visitors and viewers, I would understand. 8,000 people can come to hockey, and 30,000 can't go to biathlon? Well, where's the line? So 8 grand is still safe? Or - I see my fellow gloryists here. I think there's a Derby of Prague S on Sunday. That's where the 20,000 people will be. So there can't be 30,000 people at the Biathlon in New Town, but at the Derby of Prague With 20,000 people there can be. Then wonder why we're asking these questions. What's behind this? I'm thinking, if it's the same for everyone, we can talk about the number of 500,000, 5,000, or where the limit is. But I would leave that to those who understand it expertly, to doctors, to those who are capable and who have prepared all the crisis plans. They know better than we do. But if the government only picks one segment, it's weird. [[16.10 hours]] It's just weird with the air traffic. Are there any precautions for those who arrive at Czech airports from abroad? They're not. Except it says we're supposed to wash our hands. But actually, we, as a state, don't know who flew in. We have the free movement of people, which means someone is coming from the Schengen area, so he could also come from Italy, or he was in Italy. And there could be Němec skiing, Polák. Slovák could ski in Italy. Not just our fellow citizens. So what's the attitude that you recommend to our fellow citizens a 14-day quarantine - if I say it right, if not, I apologize that I'm not an expert - and those other people who arrived in the Czech Republic who lived in the same hotel skied on the same slope in Italy, we don't know anything about it, they normally come here. And you look like you have a system approach, Mr. Health Minister. So I would repeat the three basic questions: what have you done for practices, if you equip them with respirators, and for their nurses? Why did you choose only one sport or one sporting event and leave the others free? And what was the significance of the cancellation of direct flights when there are no additional measures at, for example, Ruzyn Airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u11	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. Let's keep going. Before I give the floor to the factual remarks - Mrs Procházková, Mr Vondrák and Mr Maříková - I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová apologizes from 16 o'clock for work reasons and Mr Václav Klaus apologizes from 16.30 to the end of the day for personal and work reasons. Now, Mrs Procházková. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, everyone. Technical only to my predecessor through you. It's absolutely pointless that we do the controls at the borders by measuring the temperature. It's incubation time. Those people are coming in unmarked. And, of course, you're not gonna catch these people. It's just unnecessary costs. It's all there is to it. And the rest - I don't want to take the floor to the Minister, he'll explain the other things. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u13	Thank you. And now Mr Vondrák's factual comment. A colleague, Mrs Maříková, will be prepared, then a colleague Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u14	Good afternoon. After all, I have to respond to Mr. Stanjura. Oh, my God, that was because I don't think there's any hidden intentions about whether the biathlon was for or against one or another agency. These are 100,000 people from all over the world, even from the affected areas. After all, Slavia, Sparta - Slavia is not so dangerous in the sense that there are simply people from our country, where we have, fortunately, only five confirmed cases. So I'm seeing some kind of risk here. But we also sat on the Security Council yesterday and said whether to allow or not to allow actions of a greater nature. We agreed on some kind of border - a consensus recommended by experts - 500 people. But that doesn't mean that 499 is safe and 501 is dangerous. We all know that. It's about trying in some way to limit these actions at a given moment. And in my opinion, don't be mad at me, it seems too flattered that the cause is whether or not someone was in favour of setting up an agency. Don't be mad at me. Now we're dealing with some serious problems. This virus is obviously very contagious, it spreads very rapidly. And the truth is, it turns out that the only possible precaution is for a person who was at the outbreak to just shut down for 14 days. It's the only way he won't infect others. There's nothing we can do about it. No temperature measurements. No sampling. That's not gonna help. You know, you don't know anything about this. I dealt with it yesterday for three hours at our office with professionals. And don't be mad at me, you may have been a programmer, I'm still a programmer, but you don't know anything about it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Maříková, with a point of fact, then a colleague Stanjura, then Václav Klaus. The Minister claims with priority rights after factual remarks. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just follow up on what Chairman Stanjura said here. Italy made the exact same mistake of stopping flights from risky areas from China and then losing, as he said here, an overview of the people coming to them in the country. Because we forget that a really infected person can fly somewhere else and take a bus, train or car. And we're repeating the mistake that Italy actually made. The measure is completely useless. And it seems to me that this is absolutely populist and does not lead to any prevention at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Then, Mr Václav Klaus, also with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u18	By your means, Mr Vice-President, here to the Member and Governor Vondrák. Whoever doesn't have arguments insults the opponent. I asked the questions. I didn't even suggest we measure the temperature. I said some states do. I was just saying that we don't have an overview like the Czech Republic who visited Čína when it came here. I was just saying that in some countries they measure temperature. I didn't call for it. I also said that doctors understand and that they know exactly what to do. I, in my opinion, responded to the chaotic measures of the government. I don't think I understand. The fact that you've been told by experts for three hours maybe you've got a three-hour lead on me. And I'm not gonna insult you for insulting me. I didn't fit in here with some virus expert and fight it. And for the lady of the house through. I didn't call to measure the temperature. I said that's what some countries do. Nothing more, nothing less. Maybe the fabulation was absurd, I admit, there's nothing weird about it. Maybe I could have forgiven myself. But I understand what you said. [[to Mr Vondrák]] If we've decided in our region that all actions over 500 are at risk, and I understand that, that's a system approach. And we can talk about whether 500 is the right limit, or 800, or 1,000, or 400. But if you pick only one event of all, it's just weird. Let's see what the Minister has to say. If the government had made that decision and said all the actions over 1,000 or over 10,000, we're canceling the audience, I wouldn't be performing. Trust me. But if only one is chosen... And I set an example of other sports. And I'm not calling to make us understand each other, so we can ban it elsewhere. But the fact that we lost track of who came to the Czech Republic... And I'm sure we can agree that the person who visited the risk areas is more risky. And we just don't know it as the Czech Republic. And by canceling direct flights, at least part of the information was voluntarily lost. And we call it a precaution. I think it's countermeasures. In favour of citizens of the Czech Republic. If it's the only air link and no one can come here, you're right. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u19	So now, the factual remark of Mr Václav Klaus and then with priority rights, the Minister. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u20	I didn't mean to interfere, but when I hear these experts, I feel like no one knows anything yet, right? I consulted with a few doctors. We don't know exactly how it spreads, how long the incubation period is. So we're all cooking out of the water. So let's not get offended here. One thing I'd like to hear, Minister. I heard from several doctors that, on the one hand, the Ministry and the state authorities are constantly supplying questionnaires and thousands of bullshit and audits and crap, but that there was no clear instruction. So one practice doesn't know what the other knows. So that's one thing I'd like to ask. The second thing is if you're thinking about cops and retail workers, too. Because I think we're a pretty powerful economy, or some of those drapes, whether they're effective or not, but it also has a psychological effect, if we're able to equip retail workers, because if you were able to deliver EET to everyone, it would be good if you were able to deliver them some drapes and something so that the market wouldn't collapse. Because frankly, when I'm in Pec, at home, it's kind of coronavirus that I'm gonna die of a fountain, I'm not scared. The bakery works there. Guys are probably gonna work out there. But what if she decides to shut it down, that she'll be worried that someone will just infect her, and the bakery will be closed, so drama will begin. So you're thinking about the retail business, protecting the cops and the people who come into contact with it, so they don't desert you and the state keeps it going? That's more of a question I'd ask. And then also give a clear instruction and admit that we don't know much - not one expert, not a doctor, not a minister, and everyone is kind of trying to take precautions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now one more point of fact. Mr. Secretary, wait. My colleague Vondrák claims another point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u22	I definitely didn't mean to insult anyone. It's not my style. I think the point is to realise that taking systematic measures at this time is not easy at all, because we do not know the virus or the way it is infected. There was a time when we were like, let's wait till he's sick, and then have him call the health department. Now we've tightened it up. Now we're saying you're coming back from that area, you're fine, but you're just gonna have to wait 14 days to verify that you're not infected. So looking for the system measures at the moment is not easy at all. And at that point, we really are groping because we don't know what's going to happen. But the truth is, it can't be underestimated because he and the plague at the beginning didn't have a hundred percent mortality and then somehow mutated and became a scourge of humanity. So I wouldn't want to put these things in a situation where then this virus, by spreading, is going to go over our heads. But here, I wouldn't want to enter the competence of doctors who know better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please, Minister, you have the floor. A colleague of Dvořák is still ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna try to stick to some kind of material plane. Coincidentally, the up-to-date information you may have recorded - 38 people are reporting in Germany, one of whom was involved as a viewer at the Biathlon World Cup, where he regularly moved by shuttle, so that he was likely at a significant risk of infection. So it's just for drawing. But I'm not saying why we did this at the Biathlon. We agreed to this on the basis of a debate with Mr. Governor Běhounek, when it was necessary to make a decision about this action soon, when, of course, we had already discussed this before whether to take such a rather radical step. Finally, after the debate with the epidemiologists, we decided that we did, so as to be clear as soon as possible, so we decided on Monday. With the fact that we said that, in general, we will return to the issue of mass events tomorrow at the Security Council of the State. We asked the Minister of the Interior, Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, because the Ministry of the Interior has an overview of these mass events to present him, and we will discuss it. Very probably, and I will also propose it, we will make measures similar to those we see, for example. in France, Germany or Switzerland, i.e. We will set some critical limit for the number of persons who may be gathered in this way and the rest of the actions will not be authorised temporarily. But I'm sure we'll discuss that detail tomorrow at the State Security Council. So it really has nothing to do with the biathlon. I like biathlon, I like watching it on TV, it's my favorite sport, I certainly have nothing against Mr. Hamza or anyone who organizes the World Cup. Of course, I am very sorry about the organizers and viewers, but we will certainly follow this up with other safeguards under the Public Health Protection Act in the sense of a wider ban on mass events. But we'll present that tomorrow. On the question of screenings, this has already been a little hinted at, we are based on some recommendations from experts and international institutions. It is generally stated that the temperature screening is not very so-called. Record-based, i.e. is not based on evidence. The disease has a 14-day incubation period. Indeed, the efficiency of the capture of temperature screening would be minimal. And we can see it in the current cases, the five cases. These were people who arrived in the Czech Republic in various ways from the risky area, they were healthy and the disease appeared in two, three, four days, and then, of course, they were examined in the system. It means, it's not like they've gone anywhere, and they've already had the symptoms of the disease. The disease didn't really break out until after the infection in the locality in a few days. So in this respect, the support screening really isn't very recommended, the efficiency would be very low. Of course, we can have a debate about the cancellation of flights. I think that's what's right at this point. And it's not a question of the Czech Republic or Italy doing it alone as we countries, or our country taking it. A number of airlines in the past, in the last two months, have cancelled direct air links between their countries and China or Italy. A few days ago, American Airlines canceled the connections between Milan and New York and Washington, I think. Likewise, the connections between Lufthansa, British Airways, with China have been cut off, but today you have virtually no direct connection to China and perhaps soon to Italy from any European country. Except maybe some Chinese airline that might have stayed somewhere, that the flights weren't interrupted. But otherwise, all European airlines have interrupted direct flights between European countries and China into one. So it's really something that's happening in general, and I don't think it means that we're not going to have control. Of course, these people have a visa if they're from China, so we know they're in our territory. But from China, I don't think that's even a major problem right now. That's where the situation really gets better. The problem is from Italy and we also know that Ital are arriving in the Czech Republic from 90 percent. They practically don't take ground routes. That means there's actually a lot of flights. Just from these locations about 40 a week. From our point of view, therefore, the risk of the introduction of the disease from the most risky regions, i.e. Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna, or Veneto, is simply significant, and that is why we have agreed to this and we will evaluate it in the coming months. The last question. As for the drapes and the provision of drapes for practitioners, perhaps for some other residents, I spoke about it in the introductory words. The situation with regard to drapes, especially respirators, is generally very, very complex in the market not only in the Czech Republic, but practically all over the world. The demand is huge. It's in the hundreds of millions of respirators. And all states are struggling to some extent with this, including Italy and other countries. We are trying to provide maximum production capacity for Czech producers of respirators in the Czech Republic. We had a meeting with them today, so that we could allocate the health-care capacities, for health professionals, including practitioners, but of course it would be a question of some differentiation. Because, first of all, from my point of view, we need to secure an infectious ward, we need to secure a paramedic who might come in contact with the patient somewhere in the hospital. They must have protective equipment, because in the vast majority of cases patients actually come to hospitals. And we don't forget the doctors, and we're dealing with production capacities now so that we can provide them with this. But we don't have millions of respirators here right now that we could simply equip all the residents, not say any traders, etc., as Mr Klaus spoke about it. In short, this is not the situation, the situation is complicated with the delivery of these respirators and we are dealing very actively and I believe that we will manage the capacity we have to allocate correctly. Otherwise, perhaps the very last remark: The Security Council of the State decided that all the entities concerned, i.e. both the ministries and the regions, as Mr Austrian here has spoken, are to develop a type plan for an epidemic of mass contagion to the extent of its competence. The type plan is published and now, in fact, the Security Council, by its resolution of Monday, imposed on ministers and recommended to other components, such as the regional authorities or the mayor of the capital city of Prague, to develop this type plan of epidemic for mass contagion of persons within their scope. So it's not like there's no clear single plan. The plan exists here, and the Security Council has issued this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u25	I thank the Minister and now - my colleague Dvořák will wait - we have four factual points. First, colleague Veselý, Běhounek, Stanjura, Černohorský - this is the order of factual remarks that we have before us. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u26	Thank you for the floor. Minister through Mr President, I am glad that the Czech Government is doing this. I must confess, although I am a government MP, that I see some unfinished business there in coordination, but I believe that you can make it right. In my opinion, it is precisely the summoning of e.g. The Central Crisis Staff, or declaring an emergency, would help, but you've decided not to do so yet. That's your responsibility. But I'd like to stop at that part of the show where you talked about medical aids. [[16.30 hours]] I am not a doctor or a healthcare professional, but in a situation where hospitals are not aware of the state hospitals, but regional hospitals, specifically I am talking about the South Bohemia Region, there have been no contracted respirators, masks and disinfectants since January, so it is just a problem. I hope you want to deal with this, but that's what I'm pointing you on -- if it's not possible by some arrangement, and it's not possible yet, because the vans just didn't come back, and I don't mean the vans because we're in danger, but deliveries for the normal activities of those hospitals, because the respirators, the drapes, we're sure to agree on that, are also used for the normal activities of hospitals, so just declaring an emergency would help. So the emergency is not a measure that is supposed to cause some panic and chaos, but it is a measure, and I hope that we also agree on that, which, on the contrary, is to calm the situation down, drive clearly and go in a clear direction. That's why I'm giving this appeal. I am not giving any resolution, but if it is not possible to renew the delivery of these basic aids to hospitals, please consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Běhounek's factual remark, a colleague Stanjura will be prepared, also a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u28	Dear Vice-President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I have been mentioned here. I must say that I have recommended that we approach these matters across the board, that is to say, systemicly, as has been said by colleague Stanjura. The State Security Council has decided what it has decided, I will not comment. We've got to do something about it, we're gonna stand up to it. That it's 60 million losses and that we don't know what we're going to do about it is true. On the other hand, based on the reactions of my colleagues, both the mayors and the chieftains, I really must ask tomorrow for the establishment of a crisis staff, which will coordinate all these procedures and so on, because when you watch it, I, designated as the central chieftain by the Prime Minister, maybe it's a nice sign, but I have absolutely no crisis in my hands where I could call something like that. I can't order any officers, these are my colleagues, I'm on the same level. That means that tomorrow at the State Security Council, as it is being sent to me on our communications networks, this is exactly what I'm going to ask for in a clear way. That the meeting of the directors of the regional authorities is convened, yes, the Minister of the Interior can only call the directors of the regional authorities, I convinced him to invite crisis management staff with them to explain what and how, and really the coordination and cooperation between the regions and the central authorities must, in my opinion, be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanjura with a factual remark, and also a colleague of Černohorský, Maříková, Birke, Rakušan. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u30	I have asked the Minister three questions, and if I understand correctly, I will try to paraphrase them. What will you do for medical practitioners, nurses? We're thinking about them. In other words, we do nothing. There are no vans. I understand that the market situation is complicated. However, if we were to discuss this at the end of January, when you didn't support the debate, then perhaps we could have had a head start in ordering in front of the other states. Maybe. I'm not saying that's true, but we're talking five weeks later before we could have had this debate, about the system measures. We canceled direct flights because others canceled. I asked what effect it gave us. None. They also fly through the Arab Emirates, Qatar Airways, they fly to China, I don't know that they'll cut flights, and then these people will fly here. And now I'm not just talking about the Číňany, but I'm talking about European Union citizens who obviously don't need a visa to enter the Czech Republic. And you didn't actually tell me anything about the biathlon except that you might ban it elsewhere. That would be the system approach we're talking about. But you mentioned one thing here, and I would like to know how it will be dealt with, and that the people who visited the risk areas, such as Italy, and there are a lot of Čech, that now we're like, state, tightened up that they're going to be quarantined for 14 days. You said something like that if I said it right. Various of our citizens who were there are being challenged. But what does it mean practically when someone has an employment relationship? Is he going to have a sick day? Then it's clear, but we're gonna have increased sickness insurance expenses, so let's just say. Not everyone can stay home for two weeks, just like that. If he's gonna have a sick day, and all the practitioners know that, who's gonna write them the sick leave? When I talk to practices, they just don't have the central information, the unified information from the Ministry of Health, because it's a rather unusual situation. And let's be frank about it - how is this practical physician supposed to verify that the person was in Italy? Or any patient who comes to the practice and says, "I was in Italy," gets a sick leave for two weeks? I'm not criticizing it. I ask what practical impact, how the 14-day quarantine is practically going to be carried out, which is certainly reasonable when it is recommended by experts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, it's time for a point of fact. Now, Mr Černohorský, then colleague Maříková, Birke and Rakušan. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would perhaps extend the question of my colleague Stanjura, because here we are only talking about practical doctors who should possibly have the opportunity to supply from the state with masks, but I would like to ask whether the pharmacists will also have the supplies there, because they will come in contact very often, either directly with the sick people or vice versa, if the pharmacist would have caught it from the patient who came there, so he often comes in contact with people who have weakened immunity, so he might, on the contrary, be able to distribute it, so whether the pharmacist is counting on the supply and the pharmacists, because they currently have the opportunity to order some respirators. I think it's coming from 450 to a thousand crowns per person and per shift, which is quite a load for small pharmacies, but if that supply is for them too, not for sale, but for the protection of those workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual remark made by Mrs Maříková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If the Minister doesn't answer our questions, I think he'll answer one, I'll give him another. The epidemiologist of the Avenier Hana Tkadlecová vaccine centre said on a regional television that everyone would meet with the coronavirus sooner or later. And I just want to ask if all these measures make sense, because at first I'm sure they did, but now we know what the contagion is, the mortality of the virus, and if we can still count on the infected being more and more, if what we're doing isn't really useless and it's not really populist, and how you're going to deal with it when the really sick are going to be a lot more, because we can expect this viral disease, if you're going to put all these people in the hospital and quarantine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Birke, with a factual remark, will prepare a colleague Rakušan and Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also describe to you the situation of mayors who are in a rather difficult situation on this matter. On Monday morning after the performance, and I will not evaluate it at all, it is so serious that I do not want to use it politically, after Sunday's performance in the Prime Minister's main news, there was an incredible situation in schools where one child began to observe another child and began to label each other as having a fountain and the other basically should be, or they started to watch who was in Italy and who was not in Italy. I don't want to disrespect it, I just want to say that the situation was quite difficult, and I had some teachers with heads in front of the schools or in detention, and they started asking me what they were supposed to do, whether to support the children to some extent, or not to support the children, etc. You know, I think we have an established system here. The system is called a crisis crew, and it has a system from above, from the state. The state controls crisis management, falls on the edge, crisis officials are crisis bosses, and they go to cities, and those three have other crisis competences. We have money for that, but the problem is, the moment I can only recommend something to someone all the time, it's nothing. So on Monday we wrote, actually we copied the page of the Ministry of Health - which, Minister, is very well, by your means, supplied with information, thank you - but we just said: we recommend, recommend, recommend, recommend. In my opinion, that's not enough. And I'm saying again, I'm not acting like I'm criticizing someone or anything, but we're getting into a situation where we're the ones on the front line, the mayors, we don't often know what to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u37	Your time is up, thank you. Now, then, Mr Vít Rakušan, a colleague of Kalousek will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. This is exactly where you can see the communal experience across the political spectrum. I'll pick up my previous speaker. Minister, it's really not a political issue. We do not want to discuss who will have an infection here, which may be dangerous for citizens of the Czech Republic, more political points, but here there is a very different approach in various places of the Czech Republic and from various mayors. They are people, some of whom are panicked because they simply feel that the danger is imminent, and in their cities they are causing panic toward the inhabitants. Some of them deal with the matter very rationally, but all of them expect a binding procedure that - and I follow the previous speaker - will simply be fixed from above. [[16.40 hours]] It is not possible for individual measures within individual regions in the Czech Republic to be different. It is not possible for one county to call a meeting of the mayors of the ORP in the region and give them some methodology, which, of course, does not come from above, but comes from the authority of the governor or the governor of the region, and the other region did not. We really do now have one single ambition that we should all want to live up to, and that is so that the approach within the Czech Republic, which is not so great, is not so complex, its arrangement is regional, we have no federal countries, but simply that this approach is uniform here. And those words of yours that you're recommending that you're sending down, etc. just testify that you're in a ministerial position with no experience of local regional politics. If you had it, you wouldn't talk like that. Those mayors really expect to be told what to do at this point. At normal times, we like to respect the self-government of the municipality and the region. However, at this point, this is a crisis that needs to be addressed, and above all, so as not to spread panic among the population, that is essential.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Svoboda, Mr Procházková and Mr Kobza, all factual remarks. My colleague Dvořák and Svoboda are still on hold. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u40	Thank you. Excuse me, if I may, I would just add to the question that President Stanjura had. Really just to be able to explain to my constituents and ease panic. Here we asked why - and it is necessary, I have nothing against it - there are no audiences allowed to the New Town in Moravia at the World Cup in Biathlon, but they can meet at the stadium Sparta - Slávia, there will just come 30,000 and the attendance will be about the same as that one day at the World Cup. And I'd like to add that to the matějský pilgrimage. It's on. It'll run for two months. On a weekday, 30,000 people will be there and 50,000 to 70,000 people a day on the weekend. And you can't follow hygiene standards there, 'cause they're all gonna touch the handles and then they're gonna touch their noses. I can't explain it to people, and I would ask a lot of people why the New City in Moravia is closed at the World Cup, but everyone can go to the Matìjské pilgrimage. Although logically, the Matìjská pilgrimage seems like five times more risky than the World Cup.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, my colleague Procházková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u42	Thank you. I'm still on hold, but it didn't give me a chance to hear it so I wouldn't talk. You know, medicine is a funny thing. I didn't actually graduate because the communists wouldn't let me go to general medicine, I graduated from the Medical School of Hygiene. I can do this. Infections, epidemiology, hygiene, that's what I've been taught since I was a kid, they've been banging into my head. And it's a very simple thing. We have had a number of professors who have liquidated infectious outbreaks in Africa, who have actually become world-class capacities in how infection is eradicated. Correctly, my colleague Rakušan says that in the state system, we have a system of crisis crews, etc. Please, there's a system in the infectious epidemiology. That's good for 30 years stabilized, how to proceed, what to do. Why are we always doing monkey shit? Why don't we just do mass media events and do things in principle? Why are we doing this one step behind? Why do we keep discussing whether or not someone's coming to us when the problem is reversed? We need to intercept all the contacts of whoever's infected here. China is a completely different matter. chan is a closed town. They're the ones who're gonna shut down, and nobody's gonna move out of there. In the Czech Republic, these people will be moving all over the Czech Republic. And the epidemiology says the infection is spreading through the powers. And if we have five here now, you bet - I've already talked about this - you bet we'll have hundreds. I'm not saying that because I'm scaring, so it's just, that's the development. Fortunately, the disease is not severe, not in children at all, but it will come. And that's what we need to prepare for, not what's in the back, whether someone flew in from Italy or not. We need to start fighting this epidemic the way it's being fought. Here, the plague mentioned that the plague didn't look so bad at first. But all of this must have developed in some form as it was handled. And we know that today, and we don't use it at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u43	Thank you. Now, Mrs Procházková, Mr Kobza will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u44	They're gonna say the Minister of Health brought it in, I wouldn't be surprised... I've been sitting in that ambulance for a couple of years since I've been jogging in that suit in Těchonín. We have a biohazard team in the county. Hygiene. As my previous speaker said through the President absolutely right, we have rules long ago. Somebody doesn't work like they're supposed to! The hygiene is the first contact! Everyone in those villages can ask the hygiene! The hygiene has rules. It's years flying the same way. I think something else is important. Take Japan. There are crowded people on each other. He takes the subway. That's where the people are responsible. A lot more than we do here in Europe. We're so liberal here, we don't give a shit about taking the bus or the subway and spying on the others. It should be done backwards. Whoever's sick has nothing to do with the vehicle. And if anything, he's supposed to protect himself from infecting the others. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Kobza, a colleague of Stanjura will be ready. So far, we have four more factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I listen to the debate with great interest, whether here or in the lobby, and in the light of experience, for example. from Italy, China has already been appointed here and the closed city of Wu-chan, so I cannot avoid the question that we can get into a situation where we will also need to close down certain areas or certain centers of this infection. And I wanted to ask the Minister through you - hello - if our authorities - unfortunately Minister Hamáček is not here - ready for such a step as well as for such measures. [[to the Minister of Health, but he answers that he listens]] Because, of course, one of the basic ways to prevent the spread of this infection is to limit the movement of the population. So if it's necessary to close down certain areas, if there's capacity, if there's a system, if there's both ministries, because I think the health department will have to work with the inside, they're ready for it, and if they're already preparing any measures, or if there's any way in which the preparations are already going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u47	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Mr Zbyněk Stanjur's point of fact is now being prepared by Kasal, Mašek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u48	So I had no idea that this debate was broadcast on TV, but thanks to this, citizens listen to us and I got a call from my friends from the Highlands. If the Minister knows that the tourists, the viewers of the biathlon, are already here to a large extent. Yes, they won't make it to the arena, but on the arena. The highlands are already accommodated today. So how did we reduce the risk? I see Mr. Governor. You said you were debating with Mr. Governor, I'm based on unverified sources that the Governor was opposed to banning the audience. But I'm based on unverified sources, it doesn't have to be true, so it's just that I can see Mr. Governor Běhounek, so that's what I'm saying. However, these people live there, meet those foreign visitors and they have arrived on Monday or Sunday for a whole week in the Czech Republic. So I don't know what it's for now that these people are here. I say, I respond to the phone call, I didn't know it was transmitting, that they were watching and saying: we see them, they buy here, they don't go to the arena, but they will still move and meet our citizens in the Czech Republic. So how did we reduce the risk? [[16.50 hours]] By the way, if, Minister, you're saying that someone's been infected on a biathlon, they're also potentially infected by all the athletes, because everyone was at the Biathlon World Cup - their coaches, masseuses, realization teams. Then perhaps it would be wiser to cancel the event as a whole. I don't know. I'm not calling for it. Only, and Mr. Governor Běhounek said so, but also Mr. Governor Vondrák, as I asked why there is no system solution. Nothing more, nothing less. And the line, I'm just gonna repeat the second time I've said it, I'll leave it up to the experts. And what Professor Svoboda said, I tried in my first performance - he actually said at our club that we clearly know everything. Madame says someone doesn't work properly. So let's say who doesn't work properly. I didn't quite get it. I trust the experts that we're ready for everything, we have plans for everything, but if it's scrubbing somewhere, we need to know exactly where it's scrubbing and who's responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr David Kasal, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond to some things across what has been said here. I'll take the liberty that the infectious diseases are very common in children, so the experience is quite large. I recently had a conversation with a specialist, an infectologist, an epidemiologist, and basically he said, take it that the infection is two and a half months old. In two and a half months, she made it to 70 countries. It has reached those 70 countries by what we are nobled or what we enjoy, and that is freedom and traffic all over the globe. The only fastest elimination of the infection would be a 14-day quarantine across the globe. berit of it as a theoretical option that is not practically possible. That's the only way to get it done. From this point of view, Czech experts, who have somehow communicated with the Minister, come out and create individual buffer zones. That means it's prevention in the first phase. And if we have an outbreak like chan or like Italy, we should narrow it down. And now I'm gonna tell you a story that came from yesterday. Yesterday, a mother came to tell us that her son was lying with us at the turn of January and February. She just came by to get a message. And in the meantime, she said that the sister of the person was in Wu-chan for a month in December until the beginning of January. She didn't tell us until two months later. So how do you plan to take precautions? We can take preventive measures when we know that this is the case and that these people will follow it. Another piece of information I got that the boy came in with the temperature from Italy and went dancing quietly to the bar. If we don't follow -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u51	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. So now, Mr Mašek, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u52	Mr President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment. I think I'm a little qualified. In addition to the internal medicine test, I have urgent medicine, I have a health certificate, an organization of health care, and I participate in the work of an ambulance and the work of a physician. This is simply to begin with, unlike some others, I may have some qualifications to comment on this at all. And now for what the Ministry of Health has adopted. I think domestic isolation, respectively. home quarantine for those returning from exposed areas, which Italy is currently in place for all those cases, is absolutely appropriate. For 14 days, stay at home, consult on the phone, and the expert will tell you if your symptoms and epidemiological situation require withdrawal. The D.O.D. made it happen. A paramedic can come to you to collect the blood and the swabs, and you'll have a result in a few hours. It's much better than going on an emergency intake, being positive and destroying the entire emergency and sending everyone into quarantine. So there's just a little discipline here, a little bit of listening to what's in the media, and choosing the essentials of it, and not talking like that, sorry, nonsense about it. And the Highlands, the New Town. Of course, it is a difficult decision, but it is assumed that, contrary to the visit to our hockey, Ital do not go there very much, so I think, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, that you know the answer yourself well, why this event was not recommended, its doing. And we could talk about that for a very long time. And I'd just like to point out these little things, but you don't want to look for them, because you're only looking for the wrong thing - our opposition - to the decision of the Ministry. [[Disagree on the right.]] Oh, yes, don't twist your head, you really are. Take that yesterday - who is the most at risk here? People over 80 years of age with comorbidities. And what did the Department of Health do? It banned visits to LDN and retirement homes because they're the people who are dying of it. -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u53	Mr. Ambassador, your time has ended for a point of fact. We now have five more factual points, Mr Zlesák, Mr David Kasal, Miroslava Němcová, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Vít Rakušan. Now, my colleague Radek Zlesák. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps I would like to frame this discussion with regard to relations with the New Town. I live 7 kilometers from the Biathlon compound. I am the city councillor of Ždár nad Sázavou, which is adjacent to the New Town. We're dealing with this action. It is an event for us really a year when hundreds of thousands of people arrive in our region, the region has tens of thousands of people in order. It is a really big strain on infrastructure, and recently in our region, there has been a great panic among local people who have been really worried and worried. I was attacked, but not only by me, but also by other representatives of the government. I think that the decision of the Ministry of Health, as a matter of fact, the Security Council of the State, is very appropriate. There was already closing shops, people taking vacations with us, leaving the region. I'm not afraid of coronavirus, I'm afraid of any panic. Since the hospital that manages this region is located 400 metres from this area, there is a difficult traffic during the race, the whole New Town is extremely overloaded, crowded, closed roads, so it is not pleasant what self-government in this region has to deal with. So once again, I'm very positive about this decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr David Kasal's factual remark, Miroslava Němcová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'll do it or I'll finish my previous thought. So the young man was still bragging at the disco that he had a fever and that he was okay. I would like to appeal to this - what has already been said here with my colleague, that yes, younger years have a significantly lower risk of any complications, and so we should not only think about the situation, that we can bring something into the family and that our parents and grandparents can take it away, because we have to think about the family and, of course, our surroundings, and on the other hand, when I take it to a small department, maybe ours, so if three colleagues are in quarantine and one of them gets sick, then at that point I am shutting down the children's department. And this belongs to all small departments throughout the Czech Republic, and now it doesn't matter if it's a hospital, whether it's a social institution or anything else, and that would destabilize the state. So from this point of view, there is a need for prevention. That TV should really tell us how these people are supposed to behave, how and where to report, and that's what's important. And then to deal with the specific outbreaks of the disease that may occur, because people are traveling, and those contacts will definitely be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Němcová, Mr Stanjura, is followed by a colleague, Rakušan and Mašek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u58	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to turn against those theories that have been said that the opposition is only looking for the bad at all the steps of the government in relation to what is happening now with the disease that is spreading through the Czech Republic and Europe and the world. It's just not true. I expected that this debate - I was grateful that it was started, that we were leading it - together it could lead us to say what works and what doesn't work and what needs to be done next. And so if we're talking about chaos, for example, I really don't understand it, and I'm going back to the biathlon, why the biathlon race in the Highlands was canceled. I would accept this as a government decision if it concerned other sporting events, such as football or hockey, but I just don't accept this argument that foreign participants, foreign viewers, are coming. [[17,00 hours]] You're not moving to Prague? You do not travel by public transport in Prague? You don't see thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of visitors coming to Prague from all over the planet every month? Doesn't it seem normal to you that all traffic in Prague should be closed and somehow protect Prague, as you now want to protect New Town and the Highlands? If one, the other. That's the illogical part. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u59	Well, thank you for keeping the time to make a point. And before I pass the proceedings on to the meeting, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, Mr Dolínek apologizes from 16.30 to 18.00 for reasons of work and from 17.00 to the end of the day, Mr Stanislav Grospič apologises. One more organizational question, and this is Mrs Levová's application - before we continue with the factual remarks, during the debate it is just an organizational matter so that I do not have to pass it on to the Vice-President here. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u60	Thank you for the floor. I want to go back to voting number 7 and 8 when I voted against, and I have a yes on high. But I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u61	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will now take the stand and prepare Vít Rakušan and Jiří Mašek. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u62	Thank you for the floor. My colleague said something. So for Mr Mašek - just don't lie. I asked three questions. I think, for example, the prohibition of visits is correct. It's not true that we criticize at all costs. But you too, Mr Vice-President, refused to discuss this issue on 28 January. Look at the junk. And we've had more time to discuss how to apply, for example, those plans that are ready, what is, what isn't. [[unintelligible]] So we're doing it late. And I thanked you at the beginning that the debate is at least today. Too late, but at least it is. And it's not true that we're looking at all costs. I asked two questions that I lacked systemic access to. I don't think I got satisfactory answers. Well, I'll take it from here. There's nothing I can do about it. At least the Minister isn't avoiding the debate. While we don't see the Prime Minister here. And many of his performances also contributed to an increase in panic. It's true. I'm bohužel so. I'm not happy about this. And someone here said it wasn't a political issue. It's not. But if the state fails, it is our responsibility, because the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies, to look for ways to improve it, to reduce the concerns of our citizens. And they justifiably have them. As you can nod your head that they're hysterical, they're panicked. I don't see it that way. They're worried. And the state is to reduce those fears. And let's really not believe that anyone who feels any symptoms thinks he can have the flu, that he's gonna call and not go to that practice office. It would be ideal, but unfortunately it isn't, and it won't. We don't live in an ideal world. And let's not blame those patients, too, because they have a problem, so they're used to going to their practice. Just like I wouldn't make it easy on our citizens' concerns. And the problem with that... That's why I was talking about the direct flights. We don't really know who visited those risk areas. We'd never know 100%. But we got rid of the possibility of having at least more information. Unfortunately, we can't fix that. And then we'll look for the contacts of the infected people they've actually met.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u63	Thank you. The President of the Rakušan with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u64	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Only to my colleague Mašek through you, who, as a doctor with an excellent reputation in my region, I am very serious about that. I don't really evaluate the Ministry's actions in relation to medical personnel, and I don't actually evaluate the steps of county sanitation stations, etc., but I evaluate what I understand, that is, how the state has approached self-government so far. And that's where the reserves are definitely significant. And I'm just gonna repeat this many times, and I'm here for the last time. Self-management is used to dealing with crisis situations of a variety of characteristics. Let's give them the powers, let's give them the instructions, let's give them the authority, let the state approach unitedly in all the regions of the Czech Republic, and then there's nothing to deal with. This really isn't a conflict of opposition versus government, and at least from my point of view, it isn't. We are really trying to put a sufficient number of instruments in the hands of all the actors here who can help prevent the spread of the epidemic itself or of panic. You, through Mr President, look at this as a doctor. I'm looking at it as a mayor with nine years of experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u65	Thank you. Mr Mašek with a factual remark, after which Mr Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to extend this too far. I just want to assure our fellow citizens that the measures taken are effective. Effective measures, and must be followed, to be disciplined. When returning from a destination where danger or increased incidence is reported, respectively. Coronavir epidemic should be maintained as recommended by the Ministry. Contact the numbers, consult. If there is an indication of the disease and an epidemiological history, you do not have to worry, it will be properly evaluated and you will be instructed what will happen to you. If the symptoms are very serious, it means that you'll be sober, you'll have a severe cough, you'll have high temperatures, so the ambulance will bring you to those sites that are targeted with special vehicles for transporting infections, and you'll be taken by experts. And I was gonna say, the contactlessness, that means not going to the hospital, not going to the emergency room, not going to the emergency room, not going to the emergency room, for the people who came back from these destinations. It doesn't belong to a grandmother who never pulled her heels and just goes from her village to the emergency room. Of course, it doesn't apply to her. But it goes for the risky contacts. So there's an amazing thing, and I have to commend it here, and that's a functional incompetent that can solve the employer's apology and basically avoid unnecessary contacts here. So the system is invented, it's well applied, and there's no need to question it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u67	Thank you. Mr Kamal Farhan - factual point. So far, the final application for a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my colleague David Kasal, to his remark that, in fact, if my department's doctor gets sick or he himself, the department or more or less part of the hospital will have to close down. In the previous debate, we have heard all the possible measures that need to be taken in the context of some, I will say, higher objectives. But I'm gonna go back to the most valuable one or the valuable one we have, that's the medical condition. Those are the paramedics, those are the nurses who are in the front line. It's our health care that works at the perfect level, we have top experts, it's because these people are actually putting the maximum amount of work into their profession. They put up different superstructures and more. This must be increased several times today. I was just here to appeal to the fact that as well as we take care of doctors, medical staff, then our fellow citizens will be taken care of in seconds. Thank you. And I want to thank them all with this, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u69	Thank you. Mr Dvořák is in the debate, Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u70	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. So I've only got a few points left that I'd stick out. First of all, what has already been recalled today is that there is no recommendation from the owners of companies, various employers, school facilities, where employees, teachers, students or pupils return. Some sports businesses are cancelled, others are still held with public participation. People are supposed to follow the recommendations of hygiene. However, it is a matter of the whole republic, national, not local hygiene. And hospital readiness. Patients with suspected or confirmed disease should be under pressure or pressure in the room. There are 30,000 infectious beds in our country, but few of them meet these criteria. In case of a large number of patients, this parameter cannot be fulfilled. Years ago, the entire infectious ward was abolished, as if no major infection had ever occurred. But these departments will no longer be operational. There is no staff that has found application elsewhere, and common bed facilities are not arranged to treat more severe complications of infections. In the Zlín Region and Olomouc Region, three of these departments were canceled, and even in the event of an epidemic, we have a problem with the location of infectious patients. Let us assume that various epidemics will continue to threaten, and it is not possible to block medical personnel and premises from non-infectious departments of hospitals where both, beds and qualified doctors and nurses are already very painfully absent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u71	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda is next, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u72	I'd try to do something that we should do, or what we know and what we don't do right. Of course, in all infections and epidemics there is panic in the population. Pretty logical. I also understand that our people go shopping for groceries because they still remember when the groceries disappeared from the store, so they're worried. But the important thing is the essential things that we now know about the disease. The disease is caused by a new or presenting new virus, which has most of the characteristics of classical viral disease, and we must therefore fight against the virus from spreading. That has several basic principles. Of course, defense against infections and epidemics is primarily effective in treating the disease. We don't know her, or we don't have her, so we can't use this medicine weapon. Without wanting to cause any panic, until now, there is no cure that works effectively, i.e. systemically. There's some hints, but it's all in development. The second thing we can do in this infectious epidemiology is try to prevent the spread of the infection. These are the steps that the Ministry of Health is actually presenting now, and it presents them well. But these are steps that are actually ex post, because when we solve the problem that we already have an infected person here, we get into a problem that we don't know the time for the quarantine, the 14 days, that's called a plus minus, no one knows exactly, and if we were to prevent it from spreading, we should also know how the virus is spreading, and we don't really know exactly what it is. We know that it is probably distributed by inhalation and also distributed by direct contact, it is also distributed by unwashed hands, or by any means in which the infection can spread. And it's very difficult to prevent that. The education of citizens to carry out all those steps that prevent the infection from happening is very difficult, people are not disciplined enough to follow all these practices. We have to assume that they won't follow them, that the disease will spread. But we also need to know that it spreads powerfully, that each infected person infects at least two others, it is said in flu diseases that it is four to eight people who are infected by one. And now, you keep powering it all up, or the certainty that in the country where the virus appeared, there's going to be a larger number of cases, there's a probability that it's actually bordering on certainty. That's why, in all those countries, it's spreading that suddenly there's one, two, five, and then there's thirty, fifty. To prevent it, we don't have the basic means. It's exactly the same as when the infections in Africa were fought, when the vaccines weren't, when they weren't 100% effective drugs and the transmission couldn't be stopped. We now know that the steps we are taking are steps after. These are all steps that try to capture as many sick as possible and prevent people from getting infected further. But the problem is more complicated than that. The most complex thing about the epidemiology is that the power that arises, the power of patients, is incredibly large in its finale. If we wanted to try to capture, for example, what would be the solution for this thing, that is, all the contacts that an infected person had with someone else, which is another step that the infectious epidemiology knows is that it prevents the spread of the infection, that it identifies all the contacts that he had, and it either cures the contacts when he knows any treatment or isolates them. But we're still one step behind. We isolate the ones who already have it, but we're not after tracking down the ones that this person might have infected. We're doing it a little bit, but only a little bit. Remember, Minister - I don't have to go through, I can directly - that the number will grow, that the detection of new contacts will be hugely demanding personnel and time. The moment you go into hundreds of numbers, that means you'll be searching the Republic for contacts that will be thousands. That's the problem we should be preparing for. The question of drapes is not entirely essential, because the effectiveness of plain drapes is indeed minimal. The only way we're gonna make it is in our closed boiler room, we're gonna make those contacts. What comes from the outside can be influenced in some way, but it's not that big of a principle number. The principle number is how we meet each other, how many contacts he had in the family, how many others he had, and these contacts need to be developed. I would very much like the Security Council of the State to deal with such matters. Not the backwards solution to how it came to us, whether we caught it at the border or not, but the things that this man could have caused and who he could have infected, and these groups are considered to be risky. We're not chan, I told you once. We are a free country, we are all moving around this country completely free and the number of contacts can be very large. The only way to reduce the frequency of infections is to identify the contacts and keep an eye on the contacts. This is indeed one of the next steps that is very challenging, but we must be prepared for it and we must do it. We cannot work with medicine only retrospectively, but we must, if possible, try to look progressively forward. Another thing that, in my opinion, also needs to be considered and done in a slightly different way - we actually have two components. One is the government's file, and the minister correctly says, "we can recommend that the school closes, we can recommend something," but you don't actually have the authority to order. Someone has to justify it. And the system that can do that is really a system of hygiene, which has been developed very detailed in our country, and it works. I would very much like for every step that the government does or recommends, to have an expression or opinion of a hygienic state, so that individual regional health professionals can communicate with one another, so that there is something like the instruction of the chief health care professional to do. That will solve the questions the mayor here had because it's functional. This is a functional thing that is built very complexly, and it is necessary to respond to the instructions or orders of the sanitary service by fulfilling them simply because there is the ordering power in terms of the epidemiology. And I don't see that either. I simply see a different approach in individual regions for individual health professionals and, of course, I see a different approach for all government members who are expressing themselves. And that's the only moment that bothers me a little bit. [[17.20 hours]] I have to say thank you for a number of things the Ministry does. Yes, there is a point, but unfortunately at this point, I'm afraid that sense is a lot of media. Everyone comments on it, everyone talks about it, press conferences are two or three times a day, but the actual deed seems to be getting a little bit behind the way we mediate the danger and functionally do nothing with it that would be prospecting and forward. It's just reverse corrective action. And really what they learn in medicine - if we do something in a preventive form, it's always cheaper and always more effective. I was gonna say that the infection is really easy from the medical point of view. She does not have a dizzying number of complications and the risk is for old patients, the mortality of children under the age of ten eleven is virtually not described. But we all have the same value for society, that is, if we have a group here that is at risk, then we have to do everything we can to prevent their threat. It doesn't matter what year they have on their birth certificate. That's why it's important that we do all of this. I would never say that the disease is light or minor. I'm just saying this here in this context, that it is necessary to realize which groups are at risk, and also to create a system that will work differently with those groups. And there's definitely no way that our kids are gonna tell each other who's back from Italy and who's not. What matters is that we create a system that can find the contacts. It's the only way in Africa that made it possible for the epidemics to start there, that was called pandemics, to solve them, and then they disappeared along with the treatment. I'm sure the problem isn't long-term. The question of vaccination, the creation of vaccination, I'll be optimistic, I'll say six months, maybe a year, the question of treatment may be even shorter. But if we don't take all the steps I'm talking about, then we might find that the percentage of the patients will be so great that it will really endanger the state itself. The example my colleague Kasal said we wouldn't have a hospital. Yes, the hospital with the staff is at the highest risk, but it's gonna be exactly the same if there's no one to sell if there's no one to take the tram. It's just a short-term slight disease that can cause a huge problem. That is why it really needs to be treated solidly, seriously. These things say, but at the same time do not scare and panic. When I watch TV and hear some talk about it, and I hear the questions that reporters ask me, too, even though I know it, and I know what it's about, it starts to get chilly on my back and I'm like, shouldn't I also run for rice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u73	Thank you. Mr Válek will now speak in the debate and Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank the Minister. I was unsure about whether really all the practical doctors, sanitation stations, hospitals have clear, accurate, the same, understandable instructions from the Ministry of Health, and I am glad that the Minister today, and that was one of the reasons for this extraordinary point, assured us that all the practical doctors, all the sanitation stations, all the hospitals received clear, brief, understandable instructions on how to proceed, and proceed in the whole republic as well, and if any patient calls any practical doctor, to any hospital, to any health department, always gets the same information. I think that's the key thing. If that's the case, I'm satisfied. However, what bothers me and still bothers me, and we should learn from it in the future, is the understanding of prevention in these measures. We knew that the infection with coronavirus occurred in January. The fact that China is reporting information that is, say, typical of communist China is therefore very inaccurate, or is as reliable as we once knew that from Radio Jerevan. And the fact that the World Health Organization, unfortunately under economic and political pressure, is modifying China's information that it gives is inaccurate, and who was optimistic and saw yesterday's performance on Czech television by a representative of the World Health Organization in the Czech Republic, who was completely amateur, and he, as a professional, expert of the World Health Organization for Infection, should clearly give recommendations and advice, and instead had political proclamations and expert questions that Mr.Prymula answered perfectly, professionally, perfectly, so this expert of the World Health Organization responded as a total amateur and layman of the roughest grain, so the one who saw this performance had to make his picture about the World Health Organization. Prevention is a set of disease prevention measures. Disease prevention. Preventive means preventing infection and basically developing a source or spreading an infection. I mean, the layman knows that, the doctors in our ranks know that, of course. Everybody knows that. These preventive measures have a first stage, and these are primal measures, i.e. measures to prevent the occurrence of absent disease, absent causes, and these measures occur when infections occur in a country, the World Health Organization will declare the state it has declared, and then the surrounding countries, because it is clear that the infection will spread, are preparing these primary measures. And I'm afraid that didn't happen. These measures were to be taken sometime in mid-January because we knew the infection was spreading, and I expected that there would be a clear plan: the infection would reach Europe, we would proceed so and so and so. It gets infected in the surrounding countries: we'll do so and so on. There will be an infection in the Czech Republic: we will proceed so and so and so. And I wanted that information to be heard at the January meeting more than five weeks ago. And unfortunately, it didn't. The third point that bothers me - and, in turn, I think that any measures that will be systemic, which will be standardised, everyone in this Parliament will support and stand behind the Ministry of Health and Government and will not criticise these measures - is certain, I will say this in a friendly, unsystematic way. We have banned visits to schools that are certainly not from Italy, in Parliament. We have banned or restricted visits to Parliament. Okay. I understand. We've taken precautions. The same Prague takes place from 22 February, as far as I know, the Matìjská pilgrimage. There are no precautions. The Matìjská pilgrimage takes place until April. I would understand if, as in other countries, when the infection got into those countries, the Ministry of Health clearly said, the crisis crew clearly said: Look, there is an outbreak of the disease, there is an infection that will spread, no country has managed to prevent the spread of the infection so far, so it just is. So on the one hand, we're going to put our top health care on the one hand, so that all these patients are cured, and that none of the infected end lethally, on the other hand, we're going to take the same measures that they've taken in other countries. And we have the advantage that we can learn from the possible mistakes they have made, for example, that they have accepted them late, that they have not received them systematically enough. So let's cancel the actions for a certain number of people. [[17.30 hours]] I don't know the precautions, I'm not a professional, I cook out of water, and it's a mistake when you do it. But I want this information to be heard, and now is the opportunity. I think that whatever, whatever is the plan - and the situation will evolve and my previous speakers have clearly defined it here, Professor Svoboda has clearly defined what is very likely to happen. If it doesn't happen, it's only right, but counting on it is nonsense, amateurism and unprofessionality. We must count on the same situation as in Austria, the same situation as in Italy, the same situation as in Germany, because we are in the same Europe, we have the same population. It could be better, but we can't count on it 100%. So we have to have a plan for these measures. We should have him ready, and we should sort of work with him. I have a request to the Minister if there is a meeting of European Union Health Ministers to hit the World Health Organization hard, asking what to do with China being the source of the epidemic for the third time in the last 10, 12 years. It was MERS, it was SARS, now it's coronavirus. So, systemicly, something in this country is wrong, it's a risk. I would have expected India to be at risk, I would have expected Africa to be at risk, but the risk is China - health risk, epidemiological risk. It is precisely the role of the World Health Organization that should be addressed in cooperation with the Chinese Government so that it does not appear in the next two years fourth, in the next four years fifth and further epidemics that are always worse than the previous one. At least that's the way it's been so far with these three epidemics. It is necessary to assume that the situation is not fully resolved at this stage, and there is a need to propose a solution. And I would like to conclude with one particular example from today. Each year, the European Radiological Congress takes place in Vienna. This is one of the largest medical events in Europe with several tens of thousands of participants from all over the world, from Europe. The event is an event decided by the Austrian Parliament, an event that is the second largest in the world after the Chicago Congress. It is an event where the organizing country was even discussed in the European Union, because Vienna has been occupied by doctors all week, not only radiologists, but physicists, radiological assistants, cardiologists, intervention doctors and others from around the world. There's a huge number of companies and all of Vienna is actually living there. The action has been canceled, the precautionary measures have been moved. No one is protesting this, and on the contrary, even if it costs terrible money, even if it is a huge problem, and the Congress is probably not going to take place this year, because moving to July is an illusion in my opinion, so everyone is applauding, because this is not really about politics, this is about making measures effective. And I would like to conclude by saying that even from a small opposition party and even from her doctor member, it may sound a little ridiculous, but believe me, that makes it all the more honest. Minister, government, in this regard, with any sensible and timely effective preventive measures put in place, you can count on my total loyalty, support and any time I raise my hand for these measures. But please plan them so that it makes sense to follow up on each other and to be pre-out-of-the-art! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u75	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr David Kasal will now speak. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u76	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I would take the liberty of responding to my previous speaker through you, only in fact. I told you in my performance that the infection was two and a half months. Let's subtract five weeks. Five weeks ago, basically, no one expected it to be the way it was going to be. You're telling us that five weeks ago, we were supposed to be dealing with preventive measures here. At that point, it had the potential of a local epidemic. There were precautions made in the country, and no one expected it to be this way. So far, we're talking about discussing this with epidemiologists. It's not that it's not or it's not. So that's a substantive remark on this. And the other thing. I'm glad you'll support any prevention because it's the only thing you're allowed to use for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u77	Thank you and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will now speak in the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u78	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me also comment on the measures taken in the framework of the infection with Coronavirus on KDU-ČSL. I have to say, I'm not going to be a politician here at the moment, but I'm going to be here as a person with medical experience. And I didn't come here to criticize the government at this point. I really think that we should be discussing at this point in time. Discuss effective measures, efficiency, so that we can take measures to ensure the safety of our citizens in the current Coronavirus. I may have had the luck, or maybe the bad luck, that I've experienced a few of those dreaded infections in the past. As director of Havlíčkobrodská Hospital in 2009, I was in a situation where we were dealing with the infection and concerns about swine flu. And just to remind you, the government bought 600,000 vaccines for CZK 110 million in 2009, 2010. Those vaccines were eventually used, if I say so, about 65 grand, but I don't blame anyone. We didn't know at the time how the infection would behave, and thank God the vaccines were back then. I also remember that as the hospital director, I was given an assignment from the county, from the founder, to buy respirators for the hospital, then it was about 200 grand. We didn't use any at the time, and I was glad we didn't use them. Then we called the construction company after about a year to see if they would buy them from us. I just want to say that at this point, we don't know how the infection is going to behave. That means it's not good, and I would appeal very much here to scare people into scaring our citizens, because we've had a lot of fun in the last few days. On the other hand, it is not appropriate for us to question the severity of the conavir infection in any way, in order to question the necessary preventive measures. As far as the preventive measures are concerned, this has been said quite a lot. We all also know that by not knowing how the coronavirus will behave, even in the global sense, it is not entirely easy to set the levels of the preventive measures. Nevertheless, I think that caution is obvious, and I am glad that the government has taken a stand for it. We can talk about whether it was just in time or not, but I don't want to criticize the government for that. I would rather go back to those things that we can influence in practice and which are really very important for us to be able to approach if, for God's sake, there were epidemics here, and there was already talk about it - coordination between health services, the Ministry of the Interior and the region. I think we still have some reserves here. We can rely not only on health legislation but also on crisis law. And I'm asking if we're doing everything in this regard. And that might be a question for the Home Secretary, who I don't see here right now. But I would like to appeal to the government to take this really intensively into account and to take this as a priority task in the negotiations of the Security Council of the State, but also in the negotiations with the Association of Regions. Why am I talking about this? It has already been mentioned that we need to be prepared in health care facilities in terms of protective equipment. We also know -- and now I can prove it as currently head of central operating rooms at Havlíčkobrodská hospital -- that we are not getting the supplies we need at the moment. I was discussing this with my head nurse yesterday. As far as the drapes are concerned, we are getting only one third of the required supplies to our workplace at the moment. [[17.40 hours]] So if I saw something at this point as a priority of those practical things, so that the government would actually coordinate its procedure. And we all know it's not easy because those suppliers aren't stocked at the moment. But here I am convinced that the government should just take advantage of the provisions of the crisis law and, on the one hand, analyse very quickly the state of supplies in individual health establishments, deal intensively with suppliers and, if necessary, use the possibility of withdrawing some of these funds from other countries, even if it is of course also very difficult. And once again, I would like to point out that these are not merely concerns about their own contagion. We need to take care of the patients we have at the hospital right now. And, of course, we have patients there full of internal departments of heavy cardiotics, people who are still experiencing the end of the flu epidemic, and we need to take care of them. And if we don't have the resources we need, that's gonna be a problem. Nor will we be able to operate in surgical disciplines if I don't have drapes in my operating rooms if I don't have any more protective equipment. I don't want to worry about it, I'm just stressing again, this is a priority task towards medical facilities, not just beds. Protective devices are needed by practical doctors, dentists, children's doctors, and other medical devices. So for me, appeal to the government to do this intensively. And if the Minister of the Interior is still present, or if he is able to answer the Minister. [[Health]] We've heard that the government is dealing with this. But we have not heard the concrete steps that the government will take, how it deals with suppliers, how it is able to increase supplies and how it coordinates distribution across individual regions. That's what I'm wondering, because these are the specific measures that paramedics are interested in to take care of their patients. And at this point, they're patients with no coronavirus. They're just patients we normally care about, and we need to be equipped to do that. We certainly need to increase the respirators for the infection itself, because they will then be essential, but in normal operation we need the common means. And I don't want to say we don't have them, but supplies are getting thin. So much for me, and I'd be happy to have the Minister's answer, if any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u79	Thank you. And with a point of fact, Mr Válek is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I hate to do this, but I'm trying to be really correct. Five weeks ago, January 27 - for a reminder, that was the day when the emergency meeting was supposed to be, or the special point of the coronavirus parties, and it wasn't. [[He reads from the Internet:]] "The number of victims of new coronavirus in China has increased to 106 and the infected are already at 4,000, the authorities have announced. The first victim has already been reported by Beijing. Because of the increasing number of new cases, countries around the world are intensifying measures against the spread of the virus." And where was the virus at the time? The virus at that time was detected: Hong Kong, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, USA, France, Canada, Australia or Cambodia. I mean, saying that five weeks ago, we didn't know what was coming, and they didn't know that the virus was spreading outside China, it's not exactly accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u81	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. The Minister shall report and speak before the end of the general debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u82	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, try to comment briefly on the debate. I think there have been a number of certainly reasonable contributions and very correct ones - from Professor Svoboda, Professor Válek and others. But I think that what is happening now is quite consistent with the standard procedures that, I agree, have been introduced here for many years. It's not like we're just taking some reckless steps and stuff, which is just not happening. We're taking precautions. Once again, in the sense of the biathlon, I say again, tomorrow we will return to the Security Council of the State on the subject of all mass events and very likely decide to ban the actual total gathering of more people, like they did in France or Germany or Switzerland or in other states. So, of course, that's what's happening, those are the precautions. At the same time, however, there is no doubt that regional sanitary stations are working very intensively, which are responsible for this and monitor all contacts of infected persons, i.e. those five people who have been tested positively. This is really the ant work, it is monitoring all movement, when it is easier for some, for some it is more complicated, especially for those two foreign students who actually got from Milan to Prague through about three cities. But we've already got this mapped out today, all the risky epidemiological contacts, where there's a real risk. And again, according to all known studies, virtually. The data we have at our disposal, the infection is spreading within two meters, there really must be a risk contact. It's less risky, virtually. less infectious diseases than measles, where it is much more infectious diseases, and more. In short, there must really be a rather close contact. So all these contacts are already put into home quarantine. They're taxi drivers. They're bus drivers who have come into contact with them. Of course, the others are family members, those who were needed on ski holidays etc. So I really don't think there's much to talk about, but that's what's really going on. That's the standard work of the hygienists. Actually, that's what we get them for. And it's happening now. And all are under domestic quarantine under the Public Health Act, which, of course, has clear rules and clear sanctions in the event of violations. So, in this regard, I think there's no need for criticism. It's really happening, and it's going to happen with all the other contacts. I agree that if the epidemic spreads, and I also agree that we certainly cannot rule it out and we are likely to have another increase, the question is how massive it will be. It is one thing that is happening in the north of Italy, in other states in Europe, the increase is not so crucial, it is the spread within individual states. But of course we don't know now. So without a doubt for any other contact, or respectively. The patient tested positive will again follow the same route. So it's running. That's the job of the hygienists. And I think they're doing it right. So much for this. And, of course, that's what the precautionary measures are in terms of mass action and so on, as I was talking about it. That's what we're really working on. We're assessing the risks. And it is, as far as individual regions are concerned, indeed the responsibility of epidemiologists, experts who have this competence - risk assessment, contact tracing. It's not a question of some opinion or perspective. These are indeed clear technical procedures that are followed. Otherwise, regarding the question of masks and respirators, as Mr Kaňkovský said, as I said, we had discussions with the producers of respirators today, we were invited to practically all hospitals with acute bed care with urgent income, which are in the Czech Republic. The meeting was at Motol today. There were about a hundred hospital officials from all over the country. Sure, we just did some homework. We want to map the current capacity. And we are dealing with manufacturers to really allocate their production capacities, which, of course, are not completely unlimited, to get protective equipment from our health professionals in hospitals and in the field. It's about both the respirators and the drapes. For drapes, I dare say that the situation will improve in the coming weeks, because some producers have reported an increase in production capacity, new production lines and so on. So I believe there that the situation will improve. It's more complicated with the respirators, but we're working very hard on it. [[17.50 hours]] Among other things, it should also be noted that the material for the production of protective equipment comes very often from China. It is also produced there, so of course the fact that today we have a problem with some protective equipment is also associated with the situation in China, with the restriction of production within the factories there. So unfortunately, such a convention has this epidemic. Similarly, it may possibly have them for some medicines, although there is no information currently on the interruption of supplies due to the Coronavirus epidemic in China, but there is also a risk. So it's obvious that this epidemic certainly has its effects, it has its health impacts, it has its economic effects. That's why we don't underestimate her. We are doing everything we can to protect Czech citizens, and we will continue to do so, but it really is not appropriate to cause any kind of panic. We will be very happy to cooperate with the municipalities, with the cities, we have no problem with that. But once again, I don't think the situation at this point is such that we have to put in place some kind of emergency here, which actually leads to restrictions on property rights, etc. In short, I do not think that the situation has arisen for such a fundamental constitutional step. But on the other hand, if this is necessary in the coming days and weeks, I think the government is ready to take that step too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u83	Thank you, Minister. There is no further application for the general debate. This is Mr. Černohorský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u84	Thank you for the floor. I just didn't hear the answer to my question about the pharmacists whether they were expected to be equipped with respirators as well as with the general practitioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u85	Yes, the Minister will answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u86	Thank you for the floor. Yes, we also communicate with the pharmacists. We had a meeting with all the chambers this morning, both medical and dental, as well as pharmaceutical, as well as Mr. President Krebs, so we're communicating with everyone. We have now asked all the chambers to quantify the number of required respirators as protective aids for the month. On the other hand, I dare say that it is not entirely necessary for every pharmacy, if we have five pharmacies in one place away from each other, so that in each pharmacy the pharmacist must have a protective device and a respirator. Given that capacity is limited, I think we're going to have to do some diversification, for example, within the institutional pharmacies, hospitals, where I think that's appropriate. But I don't think any pharmacy would have to have that kind of protection. We need to deal with those capacities that, as I say, are limited, somehow reasonable. So we're working on it. But we're communicating with the pharmacists, and we're counting on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-001-251.u87	Thank you. Anyone else wish to speak in the general debate? No, I am done with the general debate; there is no interest in the final word after the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I don't have an application for that. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in a detailed debate, and I am ending in a detailed debate. The rapporteur has no interest in the final word, no one else. Since no resolution has been proposed, we have nothing to vote on. Thank you, everyone, and I am done discussing this point. Now we're going to look at point number
