ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-004-295.u1	295. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor. I ask the secretary to make room for you at the speaker's desk. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-004-295.u2	Hello, good afternoon, colleagues. After a long time we are returning to the polls, the last time we voted on 11 March, and today four ballots are prepared. Before I introduce you to them, I beg you so much and so much to carry out these elections in the State Act, for security reasons. We have decided that we will extend the time for the issue of ballots more or less twice as much so that you do not have to clump together unnecessarily in the State acts in a narrow queue at some greater concentration. For security reasons not only for you who vote, but also for the Chamber of Deputies' apparatus, for those who participate in the elections, and, of course, for colleagues and colleagues from the electoral committee, as well as from our point of view, I ask you to keep a reasonable separation between yourselves during the ballots, so that you can use a drape to be sure. And perhaps the most important thing - there won't be pencils, bring each of your pencils to the urns, we won't leave them as you're used to. For your possible use, it will be possible to use disinfectant gel when leaving the polling room. Of course, even the announcements to the members of the electoral committee, then we will have gloves and disinfectants prepared for this addition. So much for organizing the election. I beg your understanding. Now to the election itself. The first item is the proposal for amendments in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline was announced by 21 April until 12 o'clock. Only one proposal has been submitted by the SPD member club to the Supervisory Committee. The SPD colleagues then sent a new letter after the deadline, where they modified the proposal. There was a relatively minor change. We discussed this on the electoral committee, and in order not to have to declare a new deadline, we revised the original resolution in the form of per rollam and adopted the new number 158. Very simple, one resignation within the SPD Club, Mrs Lucie Šafránková from the Supervisory Committee, and a new nomination to the Supervisory Committee, Jaroslav Foldyna. As a standard, the Election Commission proposes a public vote by means of acclamation. There will be one vote on resignation, one vote on nomination. Please, Mr President, open the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-004-295.u3	Yes, I'm opening up a debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. We will therefore vote, as proposed by the President of the Election Commission. First, we will vote on resignation. We are ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, 189 Members signed in for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the nomination, as the President has introduced us to it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 53, registered as 189 Members, in favour of 156. We have also adopted this proposal. I'm done discussing this point. Opening point number
