ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-015-201.u1	201. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Prague on 11 December 2019 (the House Press 686/ - first reading I ask the Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to give the opening statement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-015-201.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I submit a double taxation treaty with Bangladesh signed on 11 December 2019 in Prague. The Czech Republic currently has international agreements to prevent double taxation with 89 countries in the world, but Bangladesh is not yet among them. In international taxation, it is crucial whether a country which has a certain role in the business and financial intentions of the Czech taxpayers has a tax treaty with our state, and this is certainly the case with Bangladesh. The Treaty does not replace the national tax rules of the Contracting States and cannot thus establish a new tax obligation but only regulates the obligations arising from national rules. It contributes to the objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income between the two States, that is between the State of the source of income and the State of its beneficiary. Some of the OECD conclusions of the BEPS project against the reduction of the tax base and the transfer of profits are also included in the text of the contract. Bangladesh is one of the countries of the geopolitical region of South Asia, and with its economy it offers Czech investors certain opportunities for investment, such as in the field of energy, light industry and pharmaceutical industry. The overall contribution resulting from the application of this Treaty will depend in practice on the future development of the various forms of economic cooperation. In this context, it can be noted that, given the relatively high imports from Bangladesh, the balance of trade between the Czech Republic and Bangladesh is significantly in favour of this country, so the turnover of trade between the Czech Republic and Bangladesh, according to available data, was, for example, 622 595 US dollars for 2018. In the international comparison of turnover with the previous period, this is an increase of about 22 percent. The share of Czech exports in turnover reached around 9 percent during the specified period of that year, with the aim of the Czech party certainly reducing this deficit of mutual trade. This comprehensive tax contract covers the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income. It also provides for the basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both countries as well as the principle of non-discrimination, the informal resolution of disputes arising from its implementation, as well as the relevant exchange of information between the competent authorities of both countries. The contract will increase legal certainty of potential investors of both countries, create room for other Czech business entities, thus helping to develop mutual economic relations. The Double Taxation Treaty, which is now being proposed in relations between the Czech Republic and Bangladesh, was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, and, of course, also responds to the internal tax rules of both countries. I would therefore like to propose that you take this into account and recommend it for discussion in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-015-201.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Petr Beitl. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-015-201.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I also apologize for Bangladesh becoming the 90th country with which the Czech Republic will have a double taxation treaty. I would perhaps get your attention by pointing out that this is one of the most populous countries in the world with 160 million inhabitants, 16 times as many as the Czech Republic. And maybe the only other information I can add is that it's bowing down by the male lineage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-015-201.u5	I am opening a general debate in which I do not have a Member. So I look around the O.R., I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if anyone is interested in final words, respectively. The rapporteur and the Minister. [[No.]] You're not interested in final words. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anyone, so we'll take the vote. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? I'm opening the vote now. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 332, 148 Members registered, for 111, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. We'll proceed to the next proposal, it's about
