ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u1	1. Government proposal to give consent to the stay of military health professionals of Member States Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty and/or the European Union for the purpose of managing the pandemic disease COVID-19 /German press 1063/ The proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar. Please take the floor. And please be quiet in the hall. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a proposal for approval of the stay of military health professionals of NATO Member States and of the European Union for the purpose of managing the pandemic of COVID-19 disease. The material was approved by the Government on 22 October, and the material was then discussed by the Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which, by its resolution, recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with it. This is a response to the urgent need for our health system. Czech paramedics are often overloaded -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House for more peace. I understand that the drapes make it harder to whisper, but we are discussing a matter that requires the approval of the majority of both chambers, full of majority. And I think it should be done with dignity enough, so if you need to discuss something else, please move out of the O.R. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. This is therefore a response to the urgent need for our health system. Czech paramedics are often overloaded and are working hard to cope with the situation. The work of foreign health professionals will represent valuable help and relief in the daily deployment of Czech medical personnel. We have an offer to help 28 doctors and health professionals from the United States, we are discussing possible deployment of health professionals with Germany and are starting negotiations with other NATO and EU Member States, both bilaterally and at the level of both organisations. I would like to stress that foreign military health professionals will provide health care in the Czech Republic under the supervision of Czech health professionals and without weapons. I would like to stress that this is purely medical assistance to our doctors and sisters from our allies, and I consider it a great gesture and a sign of help and solidarity. [[14.10 hours]] It can be about individual paramedics as well as groups or teams of military paramedics. It is proposed to agree to the stay of military paramedics from NATO countries and the EU for a total of up to 300 people in order to manage the covid pandemic for a period of up to 90 days from approval. The costs associated with the stay of military paramedics would be paid by sending countries in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. There will be no additional requirements for the state budget. Thank you for your support and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I will ask the House once again for more peace. This House press has discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 1063/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Jana Černochová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present the motions for resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies. And please be quiet in the hall. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to add to the content of the material presented. I think it is clear to all of us what this is about. The aim is to legitimize the activities of military doctors from NATO countries and, where appropriate, the EU in our territory to help suppress the pandemic of coronavirus. Since this is an urgent matter, this material has therefore been created and is discussed very quickly. It was approved by the Government at a meeting on 22 October 2020. It was delivered to us on the same day. At the request of the Minister of Defence, I subsequently immediately called the Defence Committee, which press number 1603 discussed on 23. 10., i.e. on Friday 2020, and unanimously adopted the following resolution, which is registered as House press number 1063/1. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence Mgr Lubomír Metnar, Director of the Department of Military Health of the Ministry of Defence of Brigadier General MUDr. Zoltán Bubeník, Chairman Mgr Jana Černochová and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that consent be given to the stay of military health professionals of Member States by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and/or the EU for a total of up to 300 persons in order to manage the pandemic of COVID-19 disease for a period of up to 90 days; II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The Defence Committee subsequently adopted an accompanying resolution, which is registered as House press number 1063/2, which reads as follows: I. The Defence Committee thanks all members of the Army of the Czech Republic who are involved in solving the pandemic of coronavirus for their deployment; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and to recommend it as an accompanying resolution to House press number 1063. In a detailed debate, therefore, in accordance with these resolutions, I will recommend, Mr Vice-President, that this material be agreed with, with the stay of military health professionals, and that the accompanying resolution be approved following the model of the resolution of the Defence Committee. Thank you for your attention at the moment. And, in order not to abuse my position as rapporteur, I would like to give priority rights to the debate as a Member with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I'm registering your application. By the time I open the debate, another list of tickets has arrived for me, so I will introduce them to the House. The following Members apologize to us: Mr Adamec, Mr Baxa, Mr Beitl, Mr Martinů, Mr Skopeček, Mr Stanjura and Mr Žáček, for health reasons. We are also apologized by Mr Lubomír Volný, from 14:00 to the end of the week for health reasons, and Mr Hnilička apologizes to us today between 15:30 and 19:00 for work reasons, Mrs Pekarová Adamová apologises for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for work reasons, and Mr Lipavský apologizes this week for foreign travel reasons. Thank you for your attention. And so I am now opening up a general debate in which I have two written applications at the moment. However, with priority rights, Mrs Černochová is registered, and I then report to the chairman of the SPD Fiala Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I said and announced, I don't want to extend this point because we still have a lot ahead of us. I would like to pick up at the moment the importance of cooperation in defence with our foreign partners within the Alliance, and I would like to thank you for all the assistance that our country is receiving from abroad at the moment. This material was created mainly on the basis of the offer of two national guards, Texas and Nebraska, which are long-term partner guards of our Army of the Czech Republic. This partnership was established in the early 1990s, specifically in 1993, and has been developing very successfully since then. Members of these guards and the Army of the Czech Republic regularly train together, undergo exchange internships, exchange their experiences. This is a great opportunity for our soldiers, and the assistance of military paramedics from these guards will undoubtedly be beneficial not only as help in suppressing the pandemic of coronavirus, but also as further development of cooperation and cooperation capabilities. This, among other things, was expressed on the Defence Committee. I will mention just at the outset that the Defence Committee met with representatives of the command of both these national guards during its last business trip to the United States, and it was a very good experience for us too. This year, on the occasion of NATO's days, generals from these components visited the Czech Republic and we had the opportunity to follow up last year's negotiations and we discussed, among other things, their experiences from the United States in suppressing (?) measures to combat the pandemic COVID-19. A second point that I would like to emphasise here that we have received similar assistance in the past, and I wish that we could provide such assistance. We should be reliable allies, and we will not achieve that unless we invest as much in our defense as we need. That is why, at the moment, I want to reiterate that it is totally unacceptable for me to cut money on the army in the coming years, thereby delaying the necessary modernisation projects. Yes, we must modernize the army to be good partners to others and send out a signal that we are serious. Last but not least, I would like to point out here that this mandate for the operation of members of the allied armies in our territory is a demonstration example where it would be sufficient for the mandate to be approved only by the government for a limited period of time and that it would not be necessary to complete the entire complex procedure that we are now undergoing at the time of emergency. This is precisely the case which would simplify the amendment to Article 43 of the Constitution, which I have put forward with other Members, and which is causing some embarrassment here, particularly from colleagues from the SPD and from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which is why it takes years to discuss it. [[14.20 hours]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, simply brings situations where it is necessary to act quickly, both in cases of sending our soldiers into operations abroad and receiving assistance from outside. If my proposed change were to apply, the military doctors might already be here. The government would give them a maximum mandate of 60 days, which we or the Senate could cancel at any time or extend. Instead, today we had to meet in 101 format - nothing against it, I'm happy to see you all - so that we could really give this stand-by number of votes and that it could go through. There is still an incomplete Senate in a hurry, and it is a completely uncontroversial and secure matter, which is clearly in our favor, for the benefit of our citizens, for the benefit of our paramedics, because they will help our people cope with the strain. I therefore ask that this situation lead honourable colleagues to think and we try to rethink our position on the intended constitutional change, so that we can still discuss this proposal during this parliamentary term, because none of us really know what we are going to do at the moment. If you allow me again, I'm sure there will be some votes from colleagues who either have already signed up for the debate or have announced that they will not support the proposal. I'd like to remind you of a not so long ago event that happened. I mentioned the National Guard. The Texas National Guard could actually verify in the past that the help was mutual. It is not only that they helped us, but also the Czech Republic had the opportunity specifically in 2013, when in the town of West, which is the city in which the most numerous Czech-Slovak community lives, it is also called the pie town, so the chemist exploded. And it was the government of Petr Nečas, it was Ambassador Petr Gandalovič, who practically immediately agreed to help this city for the Czech Republic. Now we are in the opposite situation, we are offered help and I think that this is a very welcome help needed, and certainly a number of citizens of the Czech Republic will be grateful for this help. And perhaps because of what awaits us in the coming days, even today we may not all be able to imagine the necessity of not losing our doctors, our health professionals, the staff that unfortunately is dwindling in the Czech Republic every day, because either they are already positive, or they are in quarantine. So I beg all of you to support this proposal. For the Civic Democrats' club, I can tell you that all 16 Members present will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. And the list of preferential rights applied for has spread somewhat, so now Vice-President Fiala, Minister Petříček will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Let me briefly and briefly summarise the position of the SPD on the present case. Today, at today's planned emergency meeting of the House, we are to comment on the proposal of the Government of the Czech Republic to agree to the residence of foreign troops of NATO Member States and of the European Union in order to manage the pandemic of COVID-19 disease with the help of military paramedics. It is not clear to us in this situation why the Government of the Czech Republic intends to promote this in this way, namely in a way that includes foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. We don't have any information on why they don't handle it the standard way, using civilian specialists and experts. Every hand is good and you need to thank for all the help you offer. Thank you, too, of course. However, we will not agree to the proposal for this discussion as presented by this government, because it is proposed in the House to vote as an agreement for the stay of foreign NATO troops and the European Union on our territory, which means up to 300 foreign soldiers, and I personally do not know any more about what soldiers and what tasks should be discussed. It's like we're supposed to have an American base that's subject to American command. This is totally unacceptable to the SPD, for one simple reason. The SPD has long refused the presence of any foreign army in the territory of the Czech Republic. As I said, however, we also thank you for the help offered, whoever offers it to us, and of course we are ready to vote for any alternative that will not concern the stay of foreign troops in the Czech Republic. That is why we have proposed a resolution requesting the Government of the Czech Republic First, to address the assistance of military and civilian health professionals in our territory exclusively at bilateral level between individual states through intergovernmental agreements, for example, the SOFA type of contract, which means Status of Forces Agreement. It is a common matter that is happening in the world, and we do not have to approve any foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. Second, that the possible stay of these foreign troops in our territory is firmly bounded by the term and ends no later than with the termination of the emergency state according to constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on security. Yes, we have laws for foreign troops in our territory, of course. And my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová, says through Mr President that, of course, this stay can be extended at any time according to the situation, and I think that is precisely the danger, and I am afraid that just as the covid pandemic, which is likely to continue to a lesser or greater extent, would continue this stay of foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. Thirdly, we want the government to make it clear that foreign military paramedics in our territory must comply with Czech laws. I think it's important to all of us. Fourthly, this is an incentive thing when the Czech Republic has plenty of doctors around the world, and we would like the government to use all possible motivational tools without delay to return to the Czech Republic and help us fight coronavirus. I think that you all feel that we do not renounce this assistance as an SPD, we just want to comply with our long-term political agenda. We will not support any military bases, military missions or residences of foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that, as far as I know, for hygiene reasons, it is currently forbidden or not recommended to bring food into the hall, and I will introduce the House with other apologies. Mrs Golasowská apologizes for today's meeting, and so does Mr Sklenák apologize for today's meeting at the 63rd and 62nd meetings - for health reasons. Before we continue with the priority rights, Mr Martínek is here with a factual remark. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. So I don't really understand Mr. Speaker, I'm here to follow up on his post from March 23, which was published on his Facebook profile by Mr. Radim Fiala of the SPD: Russia is sending hundreds of military epidemiologists and virologists to Italy to help with the Coronavirus epidemic and some russophobes are already cracking bile in their bodies. - And now he continues to defamate the one who criticizes the help of Russia for Italy. So now it seems completely paradoxical to me when the US is actually offering us help in the form of 28 doctors, who are simply supposed to save the lives of Czech citizens, and 28 people, I think, cannot occupy the Czech Republic without a weapon. And I think we have an army strong enough to defend herself. Even if there were 300 of these people, they wouldn't be able to cast us. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. President Fiala will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u14	Dear Member, if you've listened well, we didn't refuse help in the SPD. Finally, we thanked you for the offer. And we'd like them to be here. But we do not want to vote as foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. We have bilateral contracts that we can treat, and when these people can be here and help us. And I think... And we even know that this can be done by a government without the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of bilateral agreements. But, of course, he needs it to be more transparent, let's say, to approve the House. We simply do not want to approve the residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. I'm not sure Italy approved of foreign troops' stay on Italian territory while Russian paramedics were there to help. But I want you to understand. Even if Russian paramedics wanted to help us, we would like this to be approved on the basis of bilateral agreements and not as a stay of foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. He has now come forward with a point of fact once again, Mr Martínek. Then the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u16	I've only had a short time. Perhaps this will be confirmed by the Minister that the easier way, the faster way to help in this crisis situation, is not, or was very difficult to find. I don't think we can order private individuals to go anywhere. Here's a little bit of an army situation, a little bit of an army situation. For myself, I just want to say that I welcome this help, and I am glad that the allies have offered us this assistance, and I really do not understand someone who will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur has a factual point. Then the Minister is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. I just might have a brief tour of our Constitution. The article 43 is clear. There's no other way. We were actually with the Minister on Wednesday night when he called me and we called the committee, so we considered all the options, including the provision that goes to the government now. But there are natural disasters. Which is not a natural disaster, so the interpretation here is impossible to apply. We considered how it would be in the case of exercise, because they actually practice our two guards together. But back there, the American party would have to decide in their bodies that it would send soldiers to exercise. So we don't want to pull a cat by the tail. We have walked in the purest form both from the government and from our defence committee. And the purest form no one can question is that Article 43. It's not true what the chairman of the SPD Fiala said here. I didn't say anything had to be extended. The motion, the resolution of the Defence Committee, is: "Within 90 days." In 90 days. If the Minister at this time comes up with a suggestion that he wants another extension, then we will go through this standing procedure again - both chambers, both committees. The House isn't really missing anything here. I mentioned only my bill of amendment, which is here for three years, which, if it were to pay, we actually saved a hundred bucks, and the government approved it, just like--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u19	With priority rights logged in a lot of other things. He's mistaken for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u20	Okay. I think I explained everything to my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mrs Válková is still reporting with a factual remark, I presume to have some reaction. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. It's just a point of fact, and the previous speaker made it easier. I merely confirm that it is the most cautious and safest constitutionally conformal form, the way in which this resolution is expressed, and I recommend that it be adopted in this form. She said what I wanted to say. I just confirm, there really was: within 90 days. In the event that this should be exceeded by even one day, this procedure must be repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. So we will now return to the debate and, with priority right, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, I would also like to ask for the support of this material, to support the proposal for consent to the stay of military health professionals of NATO Member States or the EU in order to manage the pandemic. I believe that in this critical situation where the lives of our fellow citizens may be threatened, it is the responsibility of the government, or the state as a whole, to act and to take the necessary measures to protect them urgently. In that sense, the United Nations Commission on International Law has finally expressed itself in its articles on the protection of persons in the event of disasters, where it has stated the obligation of the State concerned to request foreign assistance if a disaster clearly exceeds the State's capacity to manage it. And I'm afraid this scenario could happen. And that's why the government is doing this. In short, I would like to focus on the questions of the Statute itself. I would like to state that the preparation of this material was for both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our colleagues from the Ministry of Defence to a large extent a novum for the Czech Republic, because the Czech Republic has been sending out more military paramedics or rescue teams in recent years than to receive them on its territory. In this context, we have actually considered whether the offered military health professionals from abroad, who will not be armed on our territory, will form a separate military unit and have only a supporting role to play for our doctors, fall at all under the term "armed forces of another state" as used in Articles 39 to 43 of the Constitution. In an attempt to avoid any doubts about the legal status and the legal basis for their action on our territory, we finally decided with colleagues from the Ministry of Defence on a constitutionally rigid solution. As has already been said by the previous speakers, a truly cautious solution and consent to the stay of these military paramedics were subject to the same kind of approval as the residence of any other armed forces of foreign states in our territory. We have also done so in order to allow Parliament to speak on this matter. I would also like to point out in this context, if we refer to any bilateral conventions, so our Alliance has since 1951 the so-called Agreement between the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their armed forces, which is why it exists. It's not SOFA, as Chairman Fiala mentioned. This is being treated and it's being thought of. And as members of the North Atlantic Alliance, I think we should take priority from the mechanisms our alliance gives us. Finally, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would also like to ask for support, to express my consent to the stay of military paramedics of NATO Member States and the EU in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. I'll ask for more peace in the room. I'll introduce the House to another note. The Pávek MP has been apologizing to us from 15 o'clock for business reasons. I now have the priority right of Mr Bartošek, then President Rakušan. Please. And quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Today, the Chamber of Deputies will vote on the adoption of up to 300 military paramedics from NATO states or the European Union. And it is not the first time that we have been given assistance during this covidal crisis by the allies. This help, just for the record -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u27	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, if they could move the debates outside the Chamber. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u28	For the record, I want to say here that it will be the assistance of doctors and nurses, medical personnel who will be here without weapons, with a clear mandate, with a clearly defined number and limited time to help. With regard to mutual assistance under the North Atlantic Alliance, NATO, it should be said that already in March the Ministry of Defence took advantage of the SALIS alliance project, within which NATO member countries have in the event of a crisis a large-capacity aircraft Antonov 124 Ruslan. And it was this aircraft that transported millions of drapes and other protective equipment. And the only reason we could use this large-scale aircraft is because we're part of the North Atlantic Alliance. I am very glad that, in this case, international aid is not fulfilled by the proverb that, as the forest is called, it echoes. As Germany, Romania, Hungary, and other countries of the European Union have also offered us their help unselfishly in recent days, in addition to the current arrival of soldiers, especially American and military health professionals. The moment our allies do not hesitate to help us even for a moment, we cannot remember the past behavior of the Czech government. Prime Minister Babiš spoke populously that he wanted to defend Czech interests hard and uncompromisingly in Brussels, or that no one had anything to say to us about what we would use European subsidies for. Moreover, even during the current crisis, it has threatened to block the EU's plan to support the recovery of Europe. Nor can it be forgotten the inappropriate conduct of Governor Jermanová for YES, who accused Germany of holding a truck with medical aids for the Czech Republic. And it would certainly be critical to discuss whether it was right to refuse Ital to provide our military medical assistance. I want us to vote responsibly today. On behalf of the KDU-ČSL, I can say that we will support the reception of these paramedics and doctors. But the responsible vote, and I am speaking to you, colleagues and colleagues, above all, from the coalition, also means fully realizing that solidarity is not a one-way street. Accepting help from our allies is also our obligation. Never again should such impertinent and rude statements be made to our allies, whether NATO or, above all, the Member States of the European Union, be heard by the government officials of this country. We must be aware that as we are now being helped, and it is selflessly, we must help unselfishly in the future, because that is the principle of alliance. And last but not least, I want to point out that real allies are fulfilling the commitments they made to each other. If the government undertakes to increase the defence budget within NATO, it cannot throw this commitment into the trash. I would like to say here that if KDU-ČSL participates in the government again in the future, it will be a responsible allied policy, which will be one of the priorities of KDU-ČSL. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. And next, with priority rights in the debate, the President of Rakušan will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would first like to thank all those who were willing to offer assistance on behalf of the STAN movement at a difficult moment in the Czech Republic. They have shown us one important thing that we will always appreciate at the moment when we are not well, when we are in a difficult situation. They showed us that we were not alone, and in many ways they gave us literally and to the letter of solidarity. I refuse to hold a technical debate on the regime in which we approve the presence of 28 doctors in the Czech Republic. I stress 28 doctors, experts who come to help our doctors, who come literally and to the letter on the edge of mental and physical exhaustion. It turns out what kind of civilization circuit we belong to. It turns out that we belong to a world where the help of things is natural, where it is natural, where it is completely normal. And I would very much like our government, our people, the whole Czech Republic, to learn a great lesson from this generosity that the outside world is now showing us, and to be able to do so freely in the future without discussion and without long delay to our allies - and I stress the word allies - help. It is good to realize that we have friends because we know our friends in need. But a friendly relationship can never work unilaterally, just rely on someone to help us. We must be able to repay that help. After that, it is a true friendship, not a calculation. Then it is an alliance that our partners expect of us, of course. It is good to know and see clear proof of why it is good to belong to countries that are members of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. Finally, it turns out that all these academic discussions on the benefits of our membership are really just gossip. Now the true meaning of an alliance is revealed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. That was the last application with priority rights that I'm registering, so we'll move on to regular applications. Now, Mr. Bojko. Mr. Pawlas will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u32	Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues. I would like to express the opinion of the unattached Members of the Unified Movement, and that is that we will not support this because I believe that our state has reserves and does not need the assistance of NATO troops. We have experienced such selfless help, as my previous speaker, Rakušan, spoke here, and I have experienced it too. In the end, Michael Kocáb had to accompany the army. And I'd hate to have to exhume him in 20 years to drive out another army. For me, we clearly have reserves in this, and it's been said for years that doctors who graduate from our medical school leave without paying back to this republic, go abroad. We're just talking about this. There's been talk about it for at least ten years since I remember the House meeting, and no one's done anything about it. So let's get these doctors from abroad to pay off our debt. Next thing. We have plenty of doctors. I have nothing against lékař Without Borders who take care of the sick in Africa, South America and so on. But let's call those who operate in the Mediterranean, on the Libyan shores, and bring the sick here with us clearly. I'd call these to arms. Next thing. Where are the huge reserves? Only in Ostrava hospitals do I have suggestions from the staff that a lot of nurses and staff, especially the young ones, are at home either quarantined or in the infirmary and are called retirees. So not opening the first stage for me is a bad decision, because these people are mostly unmarked, they're at home in quarantine, and they can't do their job. And if anyone here said that help was selfless, I don't believe in it. I am clearly convinced that this is such a moral pressure for us to admit with humility in a few years: you have helped us, so we will give you the NATO base or the radar in Brdech, we will nod to it. I guess that's from me. That's my opinion. [[14.50 hours]] Because I already talked about it when I intersected the Minister of Health of Prymula. If you take the covid chart, anyone who looks at it must understand that there is something wrong when in countries where there is zero hygiene, in billions of destinations such as Pakistan, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Africa - and there as if there is no covid? You haven't been able to find out the number of deaths from the statistical office in eight weeks, and it was once published every week. And the stats earlier showed that the death toll, even though some died with a covid, was smaller than last year. So who's deliberately hiding the information and why? Today it seems to me that CNN, Prima NEWS, is the government's mouthpiece, because it is every day - record, record, number of deaths - record, the actor died with covid, having three heart attacks, two strokes, but he died, succumbing to coronavirus. So for me, it's just some dirty propaganda about this. And I've been intersecting about Belarus. The minister told me that the information in the system is probably not true. But I am convinced that if someone were to hide the numbers of the dead and the sick, it would certainly have come out, because even in Belarus, our secret service is operating. And what drives me crazy the most, and people call me and write about it, is the number - ten people at funerals. I can't imagine. My dad died in February, he was out of ten siblings, we have five children, seven grandchildren. How am I gonna handle this, who would I pick for the funeral, who would I move? That's just a bad decision. We've got supermarkets full of people. Another bad decision - to close business on Sunday. Personally, I'd close even on Saturday, but nowadays it's a bad decision, because you go to the supermarket this Saturday morning, so you bump into each other with baskets. Personally, I shop at eight o'clock tonight, that's the best and the easiest. But closing Sundays is wrong. Well, that's one thing. And what I'd like to say is that the delays in these surgeries are wrong, too. Because if I just take it from my point of view, when I'm waiting for that first grade arthritis surgery, the one who's been through this, he knows what an incredible pain it is, and now take it that if I had the surgery planned for March and they would have told me, unfortunately, Mr. Bojka, we have to postpone it in six months. You really can't walk anymore, you're walking on crutches, you're suffering during the day, you're gonna suffer for six months, and they're gonna postpone the surgery. And I'm not talking about being banned from those hospitals, it was three months before. Those old guys, seniors, they're incredibly suffering mentally. And suicide rates are rising. So for me to completely shut down, the sickness to visit your loved ones, it's really wrong. So we're not gonna back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. I would like to point out that we should discuss the emergency on Friday. And Mr Válek wants to respond with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u34	I apologize, and only very briefly. Thank you so much for coming here to help. I'm ready to come help them anytime. And, through the President, to the honourable Member - to keep the gold silent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. And now we will continue the debate. Mr Pawlas, Mr Luzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this statement of consent for the stay of military paramedics of the North Atlantic Alliance and of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic. As I listen to my previous speakers, it moves again more towards politics, because the essential idea that these are human lives, as if it were slowly disappearing from this hall, which is wrong. There is certainly a need to ask for help from our fellow citizens abroad, as has already been said, health professionals who have graduated in the Czech Republic. And the challenge was made, unfortunately, with a little bit of feedback. Perhaps it would be worth calling again on Czech health professionals who are currently working around the world to return to help in the difficult situation of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, I understand that we must also turn to the surrounding countries and ask for help because the situation in the Czech Republic is not really good, it is miserable, it is desperate and we are practically the worst in the world. My question is that if we want to use the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union, why we close our doors to other countries. Why not use countries that are members of the Security Council or are directly members of the UN, because there are many countries that can offer assistance to the Czech Republic and are not members of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. I'll name for example. Russian paramedics who helped in Italy or Cuban paramedics who directly have good experience with pulmonary diseases, and whether we like it or not, they are top of the world in this field. And I'm sure the doctors in this room will agree with me, even if someone doesn't like it, that they're successful in developing vaccines in Cuba, and the pulmonary field is at a high level in Cuba, they have preparations to treat lung cancer, so they're at the top of the world in this field. Therefore, I think that we should extend this mandate not only to the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union, but also to the UN countries, because, once again, let us not resist the help that the countries that are not members of these two groups offer us. I think that my colleague Luzar will also propose a resolution in this sense, and I would advocate that we extend this mandate, not be afraid of it, and take advantage of the offer that comes from the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. And lastly, Mr Luzar is in the general debate. I'll ask the O.R. for more peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, allow me to follow up on the words of my previous speaker and to mention two sets of things that I consider essential, and I do not want to question the initiative that is being put forward here at all. The petitioner, or the translator's representative, honored colleague Mrs Černochová, mentioned here the initiative of how it was created, how it was inspired. And she pointed out that it was mainly personal negotiations and relationships that were created between members of the Czech army and the U.S. National Guard, which led to this request. The resolution that is presented to us but talks about the military stay of health professionals of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty or of the European Union. When I focus on the North Atlantic Treaty organization, I would like to draw attention, and now it is not that I would be against it, but to point out that mentioned in the opening words of the militia is not a military medic from the point of view of our law. National Guard, national militia, they have it divided and subject to the interpretation you use. If you look at Wikipedia, you'll find a clear definition that both options are possible. But what is also important is that they are subject to double command. Commanding the governor of the state and then federal authorities. If these doctors leave Nebraska, referred to as an example, as civilians with the approval of the governor, they'll come here, but they won't be the troops of the North Atlantic Alliance, they'll only be the national union of the state that sent them. In order for de jure to be applied, they should be sent by the President of the United States of America, who is the second person to command the National Guard. I would like to point out that this is not a standard military unit, as we would perceive it in any other state. [[15.00 hours]] If they were American soldiers on a base in Germany, doctors who would be transferred here to help, then this article is perfect, and it fits exactly what position they would be in here. But if these soldiers leave the National Guard, they will be in the Czech Republic if we accept this law as it is, in the level of tourists. That's what I want to point out. As we do in the Czech Republic, we send a rescue team under the Fire Rescue Corps and other units abroad to help in natural disasters. We also don't broadcast them as a military unit. That's why the states that accept them don't have to treat it that way. Here I consider this to be a certain lack of a quick-sewn resolution, which builds these citizens of foreign states who are not active in military service, to be warned, because by definition of the national guard, they are civilians and only subject to the call of their governor to participate actively. They're retired soldiers, like backup. And here, from this point of view, they do not meet the definition of the resolution as it is presented to us. That is one plane of the matter. The second plane, mentioned here by a fellow speaker, is a restriction. This is where the political party leaders spoke about the fact that there should be no policy here. That this is about the health of the citizens. Yes, I fully agree. However, when it comes to the health of citizens, we should not limit aid only to the exclusive states of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. We agree, ladies and gentlemen, that if an offer were to come and, for example, from Russia mentioned, that they would send a Russian doctor here, that we should proceed to this assistance exactly as Italy, for example, the United States of America, or perhaps the United Kingdom. If we agree on this that every helping hand is good, then we should also change the resolution we have tabled here and leave it as follows: "To propose consent to the stay of UN military medical personnel in the total number of up to 300 persons in order to manage the pandemic of COVID-19 disease, for a period of 90 days." This compromise proposal, which we are proposing, meets all the conditions of what I am talking about. It allows any State, a Member State, the UN to send its troops according to our needs with our consent so that they can participate in assistance if we need this assistance. I think that if we really do not want to politicize - and I believe that there is a vast majority of people in this room who realize that there may be a situation where we will not have a doctor in, for example, backup hospitals, which are now being built, that there may be a situation where our army will be in difficulty and need help - we should accept this assistance from all those who are willing to offer it, and we should not limit it only to the states mentioned in the current resolution, but to all the states with which we are able to cooperate, i.e. UN Member States. In this spirit, I will also like to propose this resolution in a detailed debate and to sign up on behalf of the KSČM club for its wording. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, yes, then the proposal needs to be read in a detailed debate. Mr Vondrák is now making a point of fact. I was then notified by the rapporteur, Ms Černochová, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u40	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the Moravian-Silesian region, there are between 10 and 15 percent of the sick and unable to perform their duties. I'd like to ask all the extremist parties that are talking about a military away team to understand that we are short of people and that we have to get them here in some way. And I'm glad they're here to help us. So please, I find this discussion completely ridiculous! Thank you, and I'm glad we're gonna have experts here to help our paramedics handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur, I presume, with a factual point. Anyway, it's the last one, so he can stretch it out. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. I wanted to respond to Mr Luzar's colleague through you. For one thing, it has been said that there are up to 300 people in the motion for a resolution. There should be something coming from both guards - Minister, 30 people, isn't that right? So here is really a reserve for other countries within the North Atlantic Alliance. Not just from the U.S. There is also a reserve for countries from the European Union. And the other thing my colleague mentioned here was that maybe the governor of Texas didn't agree - it's not true! The Texas National Guard has been involved in managing the COVID-19 epidemic from the very beginning, and very intensively. The Texas governor has activated the guard already on March 17 to support the management of the fight against COVID-19. So the debate seems to me like we're spinning around a little bit. Everything we're discussing here today meets both sides. This means, both the party that broadcasts, so if we accept the Senate on Thursday and Thursday, everything from the Constitution will be fulfilled, what the party that accepts military paramedics should do. It's gonna be a lege artis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, and if no one else is reporting to the general debate at this time, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word after the general debate. If this is not the case, then we will proceed to the debate in detail and Mr Luzar is the first to sign up, then I see President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. As part of the clarification of the proposal, I would like to respond to what I see in the problem. Yes, the governor of the state of Texas activated the national guard on Texas territory, but 100%, 100%, didn't activate it to operate abroad, outside the state of Texas. Only the President of the United States of America can do that. If we don't have the approval of the President of the United States of America for the action of the Texas National Guard on our territory, it's not lege artis. It's not okay. That's the first plane. And, yes, they can leave voluntarily, of course, we'll welcome them here, we'll be very happy. We can even include them according to this proposal and treat them as a military unit. But from the perspective of United States law, that's how it's gonna be. But I'm not questioning it. I welcome the doctors coming to help us, and I want to repeat it again, and we therefore propose that we accept all doctors, military doctors with appropriate levels and respect when they arrive. In other words, I would like the resolution to sound like this and apply to it on behalf of the KSČM club. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the stay of UN Member States' military paramedics in total up to 300 persons in order to manage the pandemic of COVID-19 disease for a period of 90 days."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u45	Thank you and I will then ask the rapporteur to submit the proposal in writing, preferably here. And next up is Chairman Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u46	To begin with, let me repeat to everyone that the SPD welcomes any paramedics, including the military, just does not want to vote as foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic, and this can be dealt with in another way. Motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government of the Czech Republic First, to address the assistance of military and civilian health professionals in our territory exclusively at bilateral level between individual states through individual intergovernmental agreements, such as the so-called. SOFA contracts or Status of Forces Agreement; Second, that the possible residence of these foreign troops in our territory is firmly bounded by the term and ends no later than with the termination of the emergency state under Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security; third, in order to make it clear by contract that foreign military paramedics in our territory must comply with Czech laws; Fourth, to immediately use all possible motivational tools to get Czech health professionals working abroad to return to the Czech Republic to help fight coronavirus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. Thank you for delivering the written proposal to at least the rapporteur. And I must ask whether this is proposed as an alternative proposal or as an accompanying resolution. As an alternative proposal, so it's counterproposal. Okay, thank you. Now, the rapporteur, if we need to read the resolution as delivered from the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I said in the rapporteur's introductory words, there is a resolution approved by the Defence Committee on Friday, and I propose that the Chamber of Deputies approve the resolution recommended by the Defence Committee, which I have made in the framework of my intelligence report, in order to give its consent to the stay of military paramedics of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty - and over - or of the European Union in a total of 300 persons in order to manage the pandemic of COVID-19 disease, for a period of up to 90 days. At the same time, Mr Vice-President, in accordance with the resolution of the Defence Committee, I also recommend approving the accompanying resolution of this type: "The Chamber of Deputies thanks all members of the Army of the Czech Republic who are involved in solving the pandemic of coronavirus for their deployment." I propose that we vote separately on these resolutions. At the same time, there are two counterproposals. One, the counterproposal of the President of the SPD Fiala, the other, the counterproposal of the Vice-President of the KSČM Leo Luzar Club. I would just like to remind the honourable colleagues that we are in Article 43 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and therefore it is necessary that the resolutions which will be voted on by the two chambers of Parliament, both ours and the Senate, are identical, because it is actually a constitutional requirement when the resolution must be identical. So I do not want to question the right of colleagues to put forward amendments here, but I just point out that if one of the amendments were to be passed, the whole process would be delayed because they would actually have to discuss the changed parameters in both the Senate and, I suppose, the government as well, because it must always be identical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, too. If no one else is reporting to the debate in detail at this time, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words from the Minister or the rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, we should now vote on the proposals, however, given how the matter is now a little tangled, I would ask for a break of at least three minutes on the agenda, because there are proposals that require a standing majority and proposals that potentially do not require. Thank you. So we'll continue at 3:17 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your patience. Let's keep going. I ask for peace in the hall, and I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the draft procedure, as we have come to it here. Please settle in your benches. If it's quiet enough, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we needed to be clear with one of the plaintiffs, because the resolution was actually addressed to the government, so the resolution proposed by the President of the SPD, Fiala, we would only vote as a supplementary resolution, not as a counter-proposal, which would have been served on you and duly approved by the Defence Committee. Mr Luzar's proposal is counter-proposal, so I would suggest that we first vote on the counterproposal of Mr Luzar, which is more or less the same as that of the Defence Committee, but it extends the resolution on UN Member States. [[Noise in the hall.]] If I read the scraper of my colleague Luzar right here, it would be: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to the stay of military health professionals of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and - over or - of the European Union and also of the United Nations Member States - '- in a total of up to 300 people in order to manage the pandemic disease COVID-19, for a period of up to 90 days.' [[Madam, I feel that this...]] This is the counterproposal of Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u52	Mr Luzar will probably clarify that. I feel like it sounded a little different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u53	I'm sorry. The proposal is scribbling, so I'm sorry. It should have been, the proposal is - I would like to re-read it once more:... states consent to the stay of UN military medical personnel up to 300 persons in total to manage the pandemic COVID-19 - comma - within 90 days - period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u54	Okay, thank you, that would be this proposal. Another would we vote on which proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u55	We would also vote on the Defence Committee proposal, which I read to you in the general debate, and I also referred to it in detail in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u56	Yes, thank you. Then how would we vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u57	We would also vote on a supplementary motion from the Defence Committee, which relates to thanking the members of the Army of the Czech Republic, and then per parties would vote on the proposal for a supplementary resolution proposed by the President of the SPD Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u58	Okay, well, if there's consent on this procedure, I'll do it again. We would be the first to vote by a constitutional majority, that is to say, by a majority of 101 Members, first of all against Mr Luzar's proposal, then by the original committee proposal, as you have it in the Houses of the Press - now let me not confuse it - 1063/3, then, if one of these proposals passes, there would be a resolution accompanying it, first a resolution accompanying it from the committee, as is in the Houses of the Press 1063/2, and then, after each item, the SPD proposals, the accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u59	If Mr. Fiala wants a per partes. I meant per parts of the supplementary resolution separately by me and Mr Fiala. But if Mr Fiala wants to vote en bloc, then I would suggest voting for Mr Fiala's resolution not per parts, but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u60	Okay. Does anyone demand a vote, a SPD proposal for points? [[Voices from the diaper.]] On points? [[Voice from the diaper: Yes.]] On points. Okay, take points. So let's do the procedure one more time. First, the proposal for the adoption of troops from all UN states, then the original proposal for how he came from the committee on the stay of troops, then the draft accompanying resolution of the committee, i.e. the press 1063/2, then the draft accompanying resolutions from the SPD workshop on individual points. It's a procedure proposal, I'm already--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u61	One more time. First, Mr Vice-President, the proposal tabled by Mr Luzar, then the motion of the Defence Committee. These are standing votes. Then a simple majority, first a committee resolution, a thank you to the soldiers, and then per parts Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u62	Yes. Yes, I think it's understandable, we know what we're going to vote on, so I'm going to have this procedure approved. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 4, 137 Members and Members are registered, for 135, against no one. The procedure has been approved. I thank you and, therefore, the rapporteur, would gradually present us with individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. We are therefore voting now on the proposal that Mr Luzar has read concerning the amendment to the UN.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u64	Yes, I think it's understandable, and I'll take a vote. So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 5, 138 Members and Members shall be voted in favour of 7, versus 41. The motion was not accepted. I'd like to make another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u65	Yes, that is the proposal that is the committee for defence of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament should agree to the stay of military health professionals of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and - over or - the European Union in a total number of up to 300 persons in order to manage the pandemic disease COVID-19, for a period of up to 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. I'm taking vote number six. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 6 138 Members and Members are registered, for 122, against 2. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the Chamber of Deputies has given its consent. And now we move on to those accompanying resolutions. First draft, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u67	Yes, thank you. The first accompanying resolution, which will therefore not be voted in favour 101, is said thanks, "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic thanks all members of the Army of the Czech Republic who are involved in solving the pandemic of coronavirus for their deployment."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u68	Yes, thank you. I'm taking vote number seven. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote number 7 includes 137 Members and Members, for 135, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and I am asking for further proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. There are now four proposals from the chairman of the SPD Fiala club, which I will read gradually, because we have decided that we will vote on them per partes. One: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic - firstly - to address the assistance of military and civilian health professionals on our territory exclusively at bilateral level between individual states through individual intergovernmental agreements, such as the so-called. SOFA.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. Initiating vote number eight. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 8 137 Members and Members are registered, for 10, against 41. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. The next proposal by Mr Fiala is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to make possible residence of these foreign troops - thank you - on our territory is firmly bounded by the deadline and ends at the latest with the termination of emergency status under constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on security. [[clue messenger. Purples]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u72	Thank you. I started voting number nine. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 9 136 Members and Members are registered, for 16, against 29. The motion was denied. Please, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u73	The next proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to make it clear by contract that foreign military paramedics on our territory must comply with Czech laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. Initiating vote number 10. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 10, 137 Members and Members are registered, for 16, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u75	The last proposal from a series of proposals by the President of the SPD Fiala Club is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Czech Government to immediately use all possible motivational tools to get Czech health professionals working abroad to return to the Czech Republic to help fight coronavirus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. Initiating vote number 11. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 11, 137 Members and Members are registered, for 22, against no one. Nor has this proposal been adopted. I think that's all the suggestions. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u77	Yes, Mr. Vice-President. With this vote, we have exhausted all the proposals that have been made in both debates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. Vice-President Luzar is still reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote has been predictable. Every hand is good. But remember, as we voted, we may have rejected the help of Swiss soldiers who are neither part of the Alliance nor of the European Union, and there are much more of these states that are not, and we have rejected their help. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u80	Thank you, and that's it. President Bartošek, with priority rights before I can close the point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u81	Just for a little while. What Chairman Luzar says is not true and it is a lie. And frankly, who remembers helping Russia in Italy in March, when GRU intelligence jumped in, and instead of military aid, 80 percent was useless, which Italy itself said, and the soldiers were moving near NATO bases, it is not medical assistance. That has to be said here for the sake of completeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. Vice-President Luzar is still at the priority point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u83	Let me say that the citizens of the Czech Republic have heard here whether this is really about medical assistance or about politics and media presentation! Here, KDU-ČSL has made it clear to us that it was only a media presentation! And that's basic. Unfortunately, I'm ashamed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. I would end point 1063, which we have exhausted, and since we have exhausted the 63rd meeting, I am ending it with this. [[printing]] In ten minutes, we're gonna have to continue the aborted 62nd meeting, so I'll meet you here at 3:45. Thank you.
