ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u1	363. Government information on the release of restrictive measures taken by the government I beg the government's representative to take the floor. Is that Minister Havlíček? [[Yes.]] So Minister Havlíček will take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly outline the current situation in terms of easing the economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u3	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the Minister can express himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u4	And in order to raise and show the next steps that will be waiting for us, among other things, tomorrow, allow me a brief recapitulation and, say, some of the exits to the steps that we have taken in these last days or weeks. First of all, it must be said that the whole situation has occurred, let's say, with the main act in mid-March, by closing about half of the retail trade in the Czech Republic with a government resolution for reasons that are sufficiently known to all of us. Specifically, it was from 115,000 stores to approximately 55,000. I'm saying this because sometimes it's still not exactly clear how much of what was opened. And to be honest, yes, at that time there was already a breach of the competitive environment, because it is clear that some supermarkets and hypermarkets that sold certain products competed unhealthyly with those who had to be shut down and so on. However, according to the results so far, this act that we have carried out has paid off. The Czech Republic, thanks to rapid measures, thanks to the fact that it isolated the economy in time, as drastic as it was, and of course none of us liked it, and, of course, also because of what has been introduced further in terms of traveling our people and so on, the closure of the flight space, we have been able to cope with the situation from a health point of view and from an epidemiologist's point of view very well over the next few weeks and to a large extent we have become an inspiration for other countries in Europe. Of course, this in itself was given especially by respecting the epidemiologists' opinion, by acting responsibly. And I'm not saying it ideologically or politically right now, I'm just saying it factually so that the Czech Republic has played a very good role, people have been disciplined, and, of course, everyone has the credit to do it, let those who have closed business, those who have given up movement, those who have given up their hobbies, sports and so on. After that, we call it the so-called zero stage, was a situation that was about a week before Easter, when we had not yet given any clear timetable, in fact we have not even had the results that could justify us to create a clear easing scenario, but before Easter and there was a general effort to make people stay at home as far as possible on Easter to avoid traveling, and there was an effort to free some of the activities that had to do with recreation, with hobbies, with hobbies, so that people simply did not travel on those fine days. That's why construction, hardware, hobby markets were released, recreational sports activities were released, and so on, with the fact that, in principle, the number of shops, the establishments, it wasn't anything completely dramatic. It is true that the hobby markets, which are mentioned a lot, are approximately 140, but in the volume of those stores that are, so it was not a significant number, however it was a lot to see, of course there was a lot of discussion. Among other things, we released the hobby markets at practically the same time as Austria, which at that time also loosened small shops. And I'm already at stage one, which to some extent was clearly defined last week, and it was defined last week precisely because we had good results from epidemiologists. Just before that, it's Wednesday just before Easter, if you remember it, Minister Vojtěch spoke with the fact that the reproductive factor is the first time equal to one. In other words, we took a breath, and there was a chance that we, as one of the first countries in Europe, would introduce some more conceptual timetable for how the economy would loosen up. It's Easter. On the first day after Easter, we presented a five-stage timetable with the launch of 20 April, 27th and so on. This timetable was presented by three countries in Europe, it was Austria, it was the Czech Republic and it was Denmark. Of course, I've dealt with colleagues or others, we've seen what they start with, what they end with, we've looked at it from the point of view of epidemiologists, from the point of view of competition, from the point of view of what we can afford, what we can't afford, and, among other things, from the point of view of so-called dosing of people into society, I've just said it a little bit with exaggeration, so that people don't crowd into one place, into those shopping centers, so that they can sort out more around the city and so on. To a large extent it was an opinion, and I say this very openly, epidemiologists. I also say openly that the opinion of us, or at least mine, which prepared the first scenario, was a little faster, but we respected those who had created the situation here for a few weeks, as I have already said, which raises and arouses legitimate respect. [[2.50 hours]] So the few stages that I don't want to discuss in detail right now, but the shops started at 200 meters, then at 1,000 meters, only then the shopping centers and then the individual services were loaded. We can discuss whether something could be a week earlier, 14 days later, but at least in the first stages we copied a lot of neighboring Austria. The next stages we set were, and I say that again openly, quite cautiously. That means, yes, there maybe those countries like Austria and Germany in the next few days, because they started after us, like Germany, they were a little braver. However, last week we made one thing clear. Assuming the situation develops better and we evaluate the results of Easter, that's why there was caution, which will be evaluated 10, 11, 12 days after Easter is over, it's possible that we'll speed up the pace. Or, on the contrary, if, unfortunately, it were confirmed that the results were worse at Easter, we would have to slow down and drive slower. Today we are in a situation where we have 11 or 12 days after Easter. We have the results, they are very promising, they are good, and tomorrow morning, when they will be presented, there will be a renegotiation with epidemiologists. I can already say today that we have a few scenarios prepared to speed up the launch of the economy, but we need to discuss this with our fellow paramedics first, and then we have to agree on this with the government, and if we agree on this with the government, we will present a faster economic easing plan tomorrow afternoon precisely as promised. It would be incorrect for me to say what these scenarios are, because I think it really has to go through the epidemiologists' opponent first, and it is not impossible that there will, of course, still be some refinements in those scenarios, perhaps some deviations. But, yes, we assume that the entire timetable will be reduced, business or business stores of that purely commercial and service nature will be given more together and we are speeding up some services as well. In any case, tomorrow afternoon, we should prepare this timetable. Once again, however, we argue, it will not only be a clear view of the business sector, however we must respect it and understand it, we take into account all the arguments put forward by individual associations, professional associations, etc. On the other hand, we can't get under the gigantic pressure of very often lobbyist groups, and now I'm not saying it badly, I'm saying it in a good way, because of course they're just playing for their business, and we realize that we need to keep doing it balanced and from the point of view of health professionals and those that, among other things, make our results very good. So we're not going through the epidemiologists' final opinion, but we believe there will be a reasonable compromise tomorrow and we can introduce a faster timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u5	Given the fact that this is a grémia proposal, the plaintiff will not take the floor and I will start a general debate directly. I'm just pointing out that whoever logged in first will also be the rapporteur. Yes, President Ivan Bartoš is aware of this and has volunteered to speak first. So you have the floor, Mr President, and second, the President of the KSČM and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u6	Good evening already late, almost night. I thank the Minister for the performance. I didn't actually learn any new information from the data graph and the segments that we saw a week ago. So tomorrow we'll know if it's going to be the same, otherwise, better, which really doesn't bring much certainty to those people who depend on it existentially or operationally. I'm always impressed when it's described as such an easy thing. Well, I'll tell you this - or we'll make a deal and compromise. Let me give you an example. I read it today at the ANO MPs of the favorite Journal of N. It's an example of Mařenka and Gretel going to the gingerbread closet. There's 28 gingerbread in the closet. Jeníček and Mařenka eat four every day. How long till there's no gingerbread in the closet? It's simple, it's easy to count, it's in seven days. It's linear and to create a predictive model to consume gingerbread in this state is cool. But there are other things that can come into this. For example, in the middle of the week, Jeníček finds out that she's probably gonna find out, and she's having one gingerbread a day, and that changes the model. Or he gets a friend, eats more and reaches a one-time maximum. And in this model, let's look at these gingerbreads and see how the whole activity of opening up and closing the economy should work, lifting measures. The government has actually entered an unknown environment by the arrival of coronavirus. The goal was to flatten the curve, which means flatten the curve of the exponential increase. This seems to be happening in some way, but the assumption is that we actually have a representative sample of people protested. The more massive type testing, I don't think that the planned 30,000 is a massive thing. I've even talked to analysts who are a little nervous about how the sample is compiled. When I heard some comments about how this sample is going to be compiled, I don't think that the results of this test will completely reveal this situation to us. I'm gonna go back to the parallel with the gingerbread, 'cause it's gonna show how it actually works. If we decide to lock the closet, the gingerbreads won't disappear, maybe we'll have some angry kids, which could be citizens, which could be service or business operators in our example. But that's what needs to be reckoned with. And the whole goal, the whole exercise here, is to protect the health of the population and not drown the economy. It means sticking with gingerbread long enough and not having those kids too angry and looking for that balance sheet. And now the decisions aren't made based on whether the kids cry too much. Those decisions must be made by knowing what measures have brought about what effect. The 50% closure of the premises - do we know how many people were affected at the time? But even within the overall society, let's take it to almost 100% social distancing, people should not go out etc. And now that the measures are on, there must be a clear balance sheet and an immediate opportunity to measure this effectively, because now that Prime Minister Babiš has performed quite heroically - we will open it all up as soon as possible, soon and in one day. And again, he sent this message to the public. And it can happen, and because we don't have it measured, that this pandemic is really going to break out somewhere from that one person to that exponential series, and it's going to spread in some way again, and what are we going to do? Are we gonna shut everything down again? So I would like to ask, because I think that would be the relevant information - and unlike the Minister, I don't think it's fair to say those scenarios. I think that would be fair. What's the difference between the options: if this number is going to be like this, we're going to do it according to scenario A that we introduced to you last week. If the number of this protest result is significantly better, we'll do it this way. The difference between the countries referred to here by the Minister and the Czech Republic is that the government said what it would do, explained it to those people, explained the risks to them, and subsequently proceeded accordingly. So I'd like to ask, and because we're talking to people who are analyzing both economic and predictive models, if the government is working with a plan like this, where they know how much this measure increases the risk of spreading the coronavirus at the moment. If it really isn't just a simple number. Because we've been sending the minister a suggestion about how countries have approached the opening abroad, that the area isn't really crucial, that the key is whether this person can keep those two meters of distance in that sales room on that set, and if there's any need to be an entrance from the street at the moment, because the really small electricity store on the corner of the street, his daily business creates 40 people, and that person, the operator, the owner, or the trader can control the social distancing and the sanitary measures. It is not about the very piece of the store, but indeed about the possibility to enforce these sanitary measures. I'm very interested, but it's just today that the tests started, the way that we're supposed to do the checks, if we have enough tests to release the measures, and I'm behind it, and if the government hits it, but I think it's like shooting in the dark, if the government hits it, I'm only gonna be happy. If things speed up and things don't get worse, assuming they're tested, I'll only be happy if they do. But I see it as a very irresponsible way of making decisions. But if these models are, I'd like the government to show us, so that we really know what it was worth to open the hobby markets just before Easter. What a risk the government was expecting. Because if I'm in an unknown environment and I'm fighting a virus whose behavior is unpredictable, as said by Minister Hamáček, only the virus has a plan, then we have to try something in the form of something, measure the result, very precisely, and then evaluate whether I will continue and not. And both health aspects, epidemiological aspects, as well as economic aspects must be measured, but always using the model. [[23.00 hours]] And the last thing that's important to me, because we've been putting our hopes into those smart solutions that may have appeared in Korea, and it's a smart quarantine, maybe it's the eRouška app on Bluetooth Device phone, and if there's any measure at this point - because the pandemic doesn't end in the world, experts warn about other waves, and it's already been shown somewhere - so if we turn something off or suddenly say that the social distancing is 100%, the distance of those people, we're going to somehow reduce the meeting, we're going to have to replace it in parallel. And I keep looking skeptically at the very launch of a clever quarantine within the Moravian countries, ours, because we've heard about three weeks ago that it's already going there, that the military is already helping there. People were a little worried that the soldiers would start coming home because it was miscommunication. But I saw the last, second-to-last press conference of the government where Mr. Prymula said how it's going to go, how the hygienists are still going to train, employees, seven days, because the maps and the CRN, or what it's doing, are said to be too complicated, and the clever quarantine hasn't even been triggered by massive tests in that test run yet. So, what we're counting on is that when the release occurs, we're able to replace it with some kind of surface solution? Because the states that went into those dispersal steps either had a solution, or the government chose another strategy, or maybe I'll talk about it later, like they hand out drapes for free on the street when you go out or go to the store or you go to the office, which is definitely not the situation in the Czech Republic. So I'd like to ask if this is supposed to be some kind of report, so we don't look at one page of graphically drawn arrows and data with some described segments, but really give the opposition, maybe even the government Members just into the hands of the materials. Because it's not a big policy, is it? That's like responsible professional work. We work with data and facts. We make decisions based on an assessment of information. And even to those entrepreneurs, service operators and businesses, even to those big chains, I think the government owes much more than some option, which is subsequently called into question by the Prime Minister himself and which, depending on how tomorrow, what common compromise you will find, will either be represented by such or poppy. I think that's how the report that we're here for in the next 23 hours, and I'd like to wait for another opinion that this is not how the report on the gradual unwinding of the economy and the measures should look. When I presented my first IT work at the grammar school, I had to have tables on everything, and I should have graphs on everything. When the chemistry tests were done, when we were studying, everything had to have repeated measurements, work with variations, etc. But this isn't like high school, chemistry class, lab class. The Czech Republic is not a laboratory. We're not guinea pigs. And I would like to proceed as precisely as we can with initiatives that are not government commenting on the steps of the government, whether it be the Koronerv's variant, whether it be CERGE, whether it be the institutions that are at the academy, just those working with models, trying to explain it to people on examples. I miss this from the government. So this really isn't a lab for experiments. Be precise and exact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u7	Thank you. And I ask the President to be the first rapporteur to follow the debate from the rapporteur's table. And now I have a few priority rights here. However, Mr Brázdil is reporting with a factual remark, so he now has the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u8	Good evening. Mr Bartoš, through Mr President, you know, you seem to me now to be a person who wants to criticize someone who is resuscitating. You know something about this basic algorithm, but you're actually criticizing something that can't be grasped. Remember that when you resuscitate something - and I liken this solution to this issue as resuscitation. And the resuscitation has many variables. Her first basic variable is, if you're even able to, if you already know something, then, if you have experience, you'll suddenly get into it. Now you can't secure the venous line, now you don't have - I don't know, a vial of adrenaline burst, now this guy has pneumothorax, etc. And you're still dealing with it. And you want somebody to tell you how it's gonna be, or poppy. They don't know that in the whole world. And you say, "Yeah, I could do that." Oh, yeah. One and zero are simple. But the variable of life - you're a young man, I'm a little older. I do the CPR, and it's different every time. And if you ask me now how I'm gonna do it when it's a few hours before December 31st, when two cars crash, and there's ten young people in it, I have a choice now, and I'm gonna start doing something, and you can't ask me what it's gonna look like. Then why do you ask people who work here every day like screw-ups? It's so easy to come by at the end: I'm the man, I know it, I know it. I'm a total genius person. Well, you're not! You're not. You really, really are a person who knows something, but you don't know anything about what they're doing, how they planned it, but criticism is so simple. Please, it's okay. It's okay. This state and these people in our Republic are secured thanks to excellent health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u9	Well, thank you. There's another point in fact here, the rapporteur is reporting, but I'm going to put him at the end of the priority rights, which is pretty deep. With a factual remark, Mr Benešík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u10	Thank you for the floor. I think what was said here by President Bartoš was not confrontational. On the contrary, I think he was very helpful and wanted a clear explanation. Let's face it, the situation is just very serious, we all just see it that way. Please, let us be kind to each other, let us consider this discussion as really such that we want to come up with some sensible solution. So that's one thing. And the second thing is, I'd like to ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister and the government to actually take all the measures they're doing, and I understand that it's not easy, they also have people's normal needs in mind. I'm from the Moravian-Slovak border. What is happening at the border in Strání and not only in Strání is unprecedented. If a mother has to go to her daughter illegally across the mountains because she can't get through a legal route through a normal border crossing, it's probably illogical. I understand, I just understand that this is not just a question of the Czech Republic, it is a question of agreement between the Czech and Slovak parties. But please, let's see if we can find a deal like this. I'd like to ask everyone who has something to say about it, have the powers to communicate. [[Time warning]] And to make the border regime more comfortable for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u11	There. Mr Lipavský is here with another factual remark. What can I do? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to address Mr Brázdil through you. I would like to call on him to allow for a calm discussion. I didn't think the attack Filipica was appropriate. And there's no need to put such arguments into it about who's older and younger, it's really not appropriate. Let's just have fun - I think our President has asked very good questions, and let's look for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u13	Thank you. And now, Vice-President Filip, Mr Mihola will be prepared with priority rights for the club, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Havlíček, for his words. I appreciate that the Czech Republic has reached the three countries that have at least prepared a plan. I'd appreciate it if he had the plan, I'd say, even a shorter period of time. That means he doesn't end until June to be sooner. I understand it depends mostly on the disease situation. In the end, it was us who sought to put an end to the emergency. 30. 4. The proposal was finally approved by the House. And so are the other steps you should have taken. Even though I perceive the internal logic of these individual measures, why the step is taken, when what has been released, I'm a little lacking in the inner logic of how big business galleries will be opened, that is, when they have an open supermarket downstairs, they have a drugstore, they even have a pharmacy open to it, and the rest is closed. If we can't think about it before, 'cause I think he's losing his mind for these people. Although your inner logic of these measures is in a way functional and proved effective. As far as the decision is concerned, when to open what, of course, also depends on whether we will still apply some things across the board or whether from the point of view of the work of sanitary services some regions will be under another regime, such as quarantine. I mean, for example, Domažlice at this point, because it's obvious that they've done better and worse somewhere, and that, of course, if it's even decided regionally, it can make it possible in that decision to open up some establishments quickly, to allow the normal life and, of course, to separate the place that's the site of the contagion, that is, the sources of virological. I think he's still missing. And otherwise, I must say, thank you for the suggestions, because they allow us to be among those who handle the crisis. When I count the number of inhabitants in the Czech Republic, in neighbouring Austria, the number of deaths, the number of infected, the number of healed ones, it is clear that our measures proved more effective than those who did not decide so. But of course, every thing changes. The new measures need to be taken. I would like us to still be on the top of those who handle the crisis best. The last point concerns the next point, which is protective equipment. I am convinced that it is possible to end this emergency situation, that common practices are needed to order solutions to those protective equipment for both health professionals and citizens, as well as for example in the individual premises. And I would like to see the Supreme Audit Office do this when it comes to checking on the individual purchases as little excesses as possible and as little criminal notice as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u15	Well, thank you. Now, Mr Mihola with priority rights, the President of Rakušan will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. The emergency situation requires extraordinary measures, and I think we all understand that, and in that sense we are certainly able to feel everyone in the same boat. Unfortunately, it's not always like that in these particular things. And I would like it if, as part of the easing of restrictive measures, we did not really go to the various excesses that sometimes beat, with all due respect. I have an understanding for opening hobby markets, I'm sure, but there are dozens of people slamming into each other. Then on the other side of the forgotten churches, there we will count 15 people strictly and not a foot more to the great cathedral. After all, it's kind of smashing, just like when one day it's announced that it's not allowed to cut at home, the next day it's possible. But I'm saying, I'm full of understanding, and I know it's very difficult to handle all this. Yet there were several requests for inclusion here yesterday, these were requests, I believe that factually in all cases, the inclusion of extraordinary or new points which concerned the very loosening of the restrictive measures. And I asked, or I called for us to learn something new about the regime at the border, and especially in the area of cooperation between economic and scientific education, especially in the context of university cooperation, about foreign students and teachers. There wasn't time yesterday, maybe also will. Everyone was making sure there was a crisis crew meeting tonight. As far as I know, the crisis crew hasn't met, so there's no new information from here. And I admit that I have considered this point to be just as important, if not more important than many other things discussed, because really time is running out and we don't know quite the essential things that can get us into these financial problems as follows. I, in a hint yesterday in the plea for that extraordinary point, said what it would mean for the universities if this matter were stagnating, so that we didn't have to come up with any more compensation. I think it can be prevented. But the Prime Minister isn't here either, the Vice Prime Minister was here, but he isn't, so I almost feel sorry for Minister Havlíček for having the things that are actually in the picture here. I don't disrespect that, I say, I have, I rather feel sorry for him, just because the border regime here is a matter of about four ministers about the very university cooperation, and they have to deal with it, or I expect to learn something from the fifth minister. Well, it's a shame that there aren't any more involved. I hope this thing doesn't work out so that we can really talk again in the fall about how the damage has been added and how we have to deal with it, and we will meet again over the state budget and other measures. I don't see, I don't want to see everything critically and blackly, but these examples of how long we've been dealing with here, so take a mandatory or optional math degree, so I'm really a little bit scared. And I was really reassured like that yesterday, living in that hope, so I hope the minister will give it to me a little bit. It is because of the teachers, the students, or as my colleague Benešík said, the families of Czech-Slovak and relatives, so that they do not have to look as partisans for any such alternative solution. So thank you in advance and I really hope that some new information will be heard here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u17	Thank you. I have here again with the factual remark submitted by Mr Benešík. I don't know if the previous deal stands or not, but please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, very briefly. My colleague Mihola has already mentioned visits to the church. It's just normal believers don't get it. If we can go to hobby markets, and I admit that I'm there, I guess, on Saturday he was, he doesn't understand why he can't go to religious services in a similar mode, why they just don't take place. [[23.20 hours]] So I'd like to ask a lot, I don't know if you're communicating with the Ecumenical Council of the Church or with the Czech Bishop's Conference - please do this. Just a normal person, including me as a practicing Catholic, doesn't understand that. I can understand when you just say, "Don't go in there, it's forbidden for some reason." And I'll listen, it's a clear word. But the problem is that such meetings, perhaps even greater and more dangerous, are simply permitted. Then explain to us why that is. The explanations I've heard from the official posts have really not satisfied me. Because it would be good for the Prime Minister to say that he is going to watch Easter on the Internet - but it would be good for him to find out how it really works for such a service, how many people go there, and how many options there are in individual churches. If he says there are high ceilings in the hobby markets, that's why people can be pushed like that, I just want to say that there are high ceilings in the churches. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u19	Thank you, and now, President Rakušan, President Pekarová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Minister, of course, we are also sorry that such an important material is waking up at such a late hour, and I've seen a little bit of a head twist in those government benches, as if we've been holding someone up here with our stories and so on. Then please bear with us. We wanted to ask questions to the Minister, and I think that the questions are certainly appropriate in such a serious case. Firstly, I would like to commend the government for coming up with a plan. Yes, I'm sure that's right. We called on the government to come up with such a plan as far as possible before Members asked us to extend the emergency situation. Even then, we asked the government what models it was based on, whether emergency conditions were necessary or not. We've been answered - after Easter, we'll go ahead and introduce you to a plan. The Minister himself called the plan a sort of timetable. I have a slight feeling that it's a timetable for a station whose name we don't know, we don't know how the train goes fast, we don't even know which stations it's gonna build in, and it's kind of a blind timetable. It is understandable from the point of view that the situation is, of course, difficult, by your means, as Mr Brázdil said, and we certainly do not find it easy to navigate. But if you, as minister, give us only information about the existence of scenarios, then we've all heard that information at press conferences. That there are scenarios that count on optimistic developments, scenarios that expect worse developments. Well, that's just what we wanted to hear from you. We wanted to hear what and what data, what models the government's expectations are related to, under what circumstances, for example, you will return to some strict restrictive measures that you are releasing right now. That's what we've been asking you, Minister, since the beginning. We're asking what the predictive models you've set look like, what they're related to. To the number of the infected, are they related to the percentage of the population's water level? Or do they just refer to that date when scientists come up with a vaccine and we inoculate our population? That's what we've been asking about you all along, and that's what your strategy has to do. If you're talking about the timetable, we need to see the target or the base to which we all relate. If you don't tell us that base, and if you're just talking about having your scripts ready, it's just unspeakable information, and we didn't want to - and I dare say that even Bartoš - hear anything other than what those scenarios are, what data you have, what models you have prepared for which situation. What happens when things get worse? Is there an emergency model for closing down any operations again? Why don't we have the information? If these scenarios exist, then it is appropriate in the Government's informative report on the release of restrictive measures to give us some more detailed information about these scenarios than all the information we have heard from you and your colleagues many times at the press conference. You yourself, Minister, have said here that you do not want to be subject to the various lobbyist pressures of certain interest groups in this decision. Well, that's what happened. That's just how it happened. There were petitions. You responded on the basis of a petition to evacuate schooling, suddenly the dog salons opened, suddenly the hobby markets opened. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, were you at some hobby market this weekend, Easter weekend, to see? I happen to be, 'cause I went to the Tesco mall next to one of those hobby markets in my town. Full parking lot of people who got into cars taking off their drapes, breathing on their backs in queues in those hobby markets with stuffed shopping baskets. That was the situation you admitted, and at the same time, you haven't let farmers' markets go. At that point, you haven't let go of the small establishments yet. And I'm asking - did the measure have any logic? Was it the watering, the natural seaing, the population through the hobby markets in this case that Dr. Prymula was talking about? Was it just some kind of experiment, was it part of your plan, or did you just go to some lobby group that wanted to open up hobby markets? At the same time, when Prime Minister Babiš says that you actually forgot about those churches before Easter holidays, the biggest church holidays of the church year, they kind of forgot. It just feels weird, and it doesn't exactly impress us that the plan was clear, and he had a script at the time. A few other pointless things. Fitness centers without showers, outdoor sports events open in June. What's the difference? Is there a less risk in this breathed fitness center environment than in that outdoor event when football players train on the big field? I don't know. But you never told us that here. You opened a small establishment, you forgot that people weren't allowed to enter it under the regulation in force at the time. You fixed that in a hurry with your own additional regulation. You're partially opening schools, level two's off, level one's off. I don't see any fundamental logic either, but I don't know about the hygiene measures. Did you ask the mayors in the towns and villages if the school buildings could even bear the regulations you came up with? Whether this is practically feasible at all, or it's just a game of some regulation, which will not be respected in the end anyway, because those schools simply won't have the capacity to do it. Mayors and mayors from all over the Republic tell us: we would have to quickly put some cells in front of the school or build another floor of the school buildings, because it is simply impossible. And I'd like to make one more comment. Pupils at second grade schools will not go to school at the moment when you open up according to your plan, which you introduced, large supermarkets. Can you imagine how that's gonna turn out? Where will those pupils who are still on leave go? The pupils of the second grade? Let us sum up your plan, which you have discussed in relation to the opening of borders, the possibility of travelling, the fundamental constitutional law. So, first of all, we heard from Deputy Minister Prymula that the borders can remain closed for up to two years. Prime Minister Babiš immediately responds: that's stupid, that's stupid, that's what Dr. Prymula shot. Dr. Prymula further says that the borders are not closed - I quote - they are virtually impenetrable. Practically impenetrable - so the comrades could have adopted the term before 1989. Those were really practically impenetrable boundaries. In addition, information will be given that they will be able to open up borders to travel to Slovakia and Croatia. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček then writes: we should be careful before we let that information out. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister's negotiations with the Prime Minister of Croatia begin on how our citizens will be able to travel. So I ask again - why do I give these examples here - what is the plan, and why is the information different every day? We're simply asking whether these steps and statements of yours are based on any specific data, data, any model you have, or just random statements that attack one of your team members at the time. [[23.30 hours]] And you said here how well we are within individual countries. Well, thank God, we're in a good place with this epidemiological situation, because people have been very disciplined, too. People in cities and villages, when there were no aids, sewed them themselves, provided them, there was huge solidarity among people throughout the Czech Republic. But, yes, of course, the restrictive measures at the beginning with which the government came, and I say this quite frankly, were appropriate. We also supported them, and in this House we agreed with you. But if you're talking about easing scenarios, then give us the scripts. Give them to us to some extent details with data and models as it develops. And then you point out to those other countries how better you are. Do you know what the German Chancellor said as the first sentence? We will explain every measure we take. We need to be open and transparent so that people take our measures as their own and are able to identify with them and feel their temporaryity. - And that's just not what's happening here. Forgive me, we cannot not see that the government has been very chaotic in many matters, and in some cases it is simply unable to explain its actions. For example, these hobby markets have never been explained here whether it was a fling or what was just going on here. And now you're gonna tell us, Minister, that you have scripts, but you're not gonna tell us today. Well, that's what we've been waiting for till 11:30? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u21	Thank you. And now there are factual points. First Mr Hájek, then Mr Třešňák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u22	Good evening. I'm sorry, but I couldn't take it anymore. Two theorists spoke here, and I still consider myself a practice. I was the head of the wreckage on a shaft with 5,000 people. And if I was the crash commander, I had only one job to do away with the crash. And no one was allowed to talk to me about it! Nobody! Not even the principal. As head of the accident, I was able to invite an expert committee, an advisory committee. Of course, the director asked me, when are you gonna put it out, the fire? I said I have ten options, Director, but the mine is erratic, it's a struggle with nature. I have a vision, I have a plan, but I'm not gonna tell you if it's tonight, tomorrow, the day after... The emergency committee worked every day, giving every shift an order that responded to the situation that was developing. And either the development was positive, so we could discuss when we were going to let those miners in part or it was negative, when I said unfortunately, we have to move it. And the situation is the same today, except that the government doesn't deal with 5,000 miners like me, but with 10 million inhabitants. So if you just want some graphs, of course, the government can give you hundreds of graphs, but of course we're not isolated countries, we're adjacent to a lot of countries. And you can see for yourself today in Domažlick, which is near the German border, what the situation is there. So at this point, it seems completely incorrect on your part to pressure the government here and push it into some dates and deadlines. I think the government doesn't make any mistakes, but from this point of view, it just needs to be approached by the way forward, backwards, according to evolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Třešňák, then Mr Bartoš, with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u24	Nice almost midnight. I originally wanted to add to my point of fact the appearance of President Rakušan, unfortunately now in the context of Mr Hájek's output, that when the woods fall, the splinters fly, at least that's what it sounded like to me, it would be a little harder. I only wanted two things, and really practical. So the first one, a little bit in the general plane, just a little bit of a comment. 14. 4. that was, I guess, Tuesday night, the government introduced the five-phase release plan, which probably filled the population with optimism. Even us, because who wouldn't want a quicker release, so that on Wednesday the 15th morning the Ministry of Health would have a press conference, where it had already wrapped up in some sort of skepticism. But I didn't want to talk about it, I really wanted the practical point, and it was about the schools. I just happened to read an e-mail from my wife who sent me, where the teacher asks parents who want their children to come to school. And I really wouldn't want to be in the skin of those class teachers, directors or founders in those communities, because they have to decide if they have 30 answers that they want their parents to come to that school. The President of Rakušan has already expressed this concern. I think it's solvable. If they don't go second-degree now, they can use the capacity of the classes and the capacity of the personnel of the second-degrees - but it didn't sound anywhere. And the Minister of Education is not here today, so the Deputy Prime Minister will carry the canonade. I do, but I think the Ministry of Education should give at least some methodical instruction as to how the founders and school directors should approach this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u25	Thank you. Mr Bartoš has withdrawn his comment, so now Mrs Kovářová, Mr Kasal, with factual remarks... So, in that case, Mr Kasal, the Member has withdrawn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u26	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to try to answer my colleague Třešňák. There you come across a number of things that are. It was mentioned here. First of all, the epidemiology data is changing. I can tell you that when we were prepping it at the hospital, we reacted from one day to the next. From day to day, we adjusted how many beds we'd have available, where we'd move the patients, or if we'd have one whole floor open. And we had to change it from day to day. And after two days, it changed. And by having, like, two teams, when they came to work in two or three days, the basic information was completely different, and we had to do it. And now I'm gonna go back to those schoolboys. I said it myself, because I'm on one committee, that in order to trigger health, that's relaxing, that's what it takes, because there are young doctors and young sisters in those hospitals, if there aren't open kindergartens and schools, those doctors aren't going to go. There are twenty percent of people in two specific hospitals who are either quarantined, in the Czech Republic, or on PN. And at that point, they won't be able to provide the care. And now again, to teach those teachers, you just said under what circumstances. Of course, no one can order how it's going to be at this point. A teacher can't choose what disease he has because he doesn't have a legal basis for it. So it's a really big problem, and it's not national. It's not really easy to outline and say what's going on. And let's just assume that they're older, they might have some kind of risk, so what's their protection gonna be? So it really has everything to do with everything, and it's steps that no one has to even think about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u27	Thank you. And now, with the factual remarks of Mr Rakušan, then Mr Bartoš, then Mr Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u28	Thank you. I really only briefly, through you, to my colleague Hájek. Please, let's leave these notes like we old people who have experience, you young people who don't have experience. That doesn't really belong here. I didn't really drive the rescue team of the miners in the cave, I ran the county emergency crew in the flood. In order for people to have some comfort, we simply informed them transparently and openly. So the experience, the inexperienced, and you who don't know anything about this life - please let's drop it, it doesn't belong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u29	Thank you and now Mr Bartoš two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u30	It's the final deed. We're in the 21st century. In 1970, the era of so-called. information society. I know it didn't come to Bohemia until later, three million mobile phones will be sold here. When you watch the Internet, it shows an ad that's designed exactly for you to go on a tour. Deciding at state level is not a practical thing. You also know what the procedure is when your blood starts to flow somewhere or when the patient is collapsing. Just like you knew what to do at the time. Just the country, the economy... [[23.40 hours]] Even the secretary of finance who sits here has it figured out. She doesn't burn blind. She knows where it's gonna go, who's gonna make it, who's gonna lose it. But they're also unknown, and they're economic models. And we just want this. The state must be governed on the basis of a professional evaluation. It's not some quick report. In the 21st century, when the biggest commodity is data, we're talking digitalization, there's a smart quarantine, those computers, those models, how come they can model it at the academy? It's also measured on the UIS. But every measure has some implications, it affects a certain number of people, they either meet or they don't meet, and on that basis, these people are more responsible. If somebody knows that this normal meeting is such a risk, they won't go to that park this weekend because they know that if they do, they can close the store on the edge of the street again in a week and they'll have to be home again. So the transparency, the data available to it, it's just that the time has changed, it's not a practical performance that we have to move here, the beds, when the disease is changing, it means work, but the government's measures, turn off, turn on, go just as fast as the government's press conferences go, they don't pay. But this decision is valid - it doesn't have an immediate effect on the economy, people's comfort, and even the potential increase in epidemiological hazards. [[President: Time, Mr President.]] That's why it has to be the most prestigious thing to measure when what happens. And if it's just... "we're gonna let those people in more and more and we're gonna see" that's wrong. [[Please finish the sentence.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u31	Thank you. Mr Čižinský, Mr. Výborný will be prepared for factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u32	Thank you. I'm sure none of us are here to say that the situation is simple, but it's always supposed to be heard, what to do, why to do it and how to do it. When we're talking specifically about education, it's very good to talk about the fact that there are children in those kindergartens and schools that people are taking care of at home, and that's why they can't work, but that's why it's supposed to be said that now that we open the nursery, those who don't want their kids to go, that they lose the caregiver, it's supposed to be resolved, it's clear what happens to those parents who just don't send the kids to that open school, if they don't want to go home for free, if they don't want to send them, etc. That means all these specific impacts are missing here. And it's because she resigned to the fact that when something's done, it explains why and how.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u33	Thank you. Mr Výborný, Mr Kasal will be prepared for a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u34	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Government, or government torso, colleagues. It is rather late hour, I would have expected that on the point of the Government's information on the release of restrictive measures will not only be the Vice Prime Minister here, but I would have expected the Prime Minister here - we have not seen him here. I'd expect the head of the Central Crisis Staff here - I don't see him anywhere here either. We all have a lot of questions. Some were heard here. I could put them down, too, but I don't think we're gonna hear the answers today anyway, and that this debate is going in one direction, and sometimes it's cycling and it's not going anywhere. It's 23.43 o'clock, and I'm not sure we're gonna get any clear answers or rational debates today. At this point, I would like to make a procedural proposal to interrupt this point by 5 May, which means the beginning of the variable week of the Chamber of Deputies. And as part of this procedural proposal, please also vote on the resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies asks Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to submit information to the Government on the release of restrictive measures taken by the Government of the Czech Republic at the beginning of the Chamber of Deputies on 5 May. I think on Tuesday at 2:00 p.m., the debate may be quite rational, we'll move somewhere, I believe the Prime Minister or Vice Prime Minister will be able to file this information on May 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u35	Thank you. These were procedural proposals. I'm the one who got the bang. Before the colleagues meet, I would like to point out that the Minister is in line with the debate. President Chvojka wants something else on this procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u36	Thank you for the floor. I'm not questioning the proposal, I understand. I wanted to ask, through you, Mr Vice-President, whether my colleague Výborný only means this point or the other point, because logic would have both points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u37	The Member shall specify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u38	Thank you. Of course, I'll specify. I mean point 363, 364, both of them, of course. That would be illogical. Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-015-363.u39	Thank you. We've had quite a lot of meetings here, but other colleagues are coming. That was the check-out request. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. So I will repeat for those who have arrived or are just coming, as the proposals sounded. There is a proposal to interrupt this meeting by Tuesday of the variable week until 14.00, while it is also proposed that the House request the presence of the Prime Minister to this point and the following point. I think it's proposed as one proposal, so we would deal with it with one vote if no one has anything against it. There are already enough of us. I don't know if I should wait for my colleagues to arrive, after all... If no one has any objections, I would begin the vote. I'm waiting to see if there's an objection. There's no objection, so I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption and the presence of the Prime Minister. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 125. 80 Members and Members are enrolled, for 53, versus 8. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. So we've interrupted these points, and so I'm also interrupting this meeting... [[Questions from the diaper.]] No, that was part of the vote. It was also part of the decision that the House wanted the Prime Minister to be present at paragraphs 363 and 364. I said that before the vote. I told you we'd put it in one that it's common, so I believe that's the case if no one objects. The meeting is now to be adjourned, also until Tuesday 5 May 14.00, as agreed on the grémium with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs. So thank you all for your presence, I wish you a pleasant rest of the evening and I'll see you Tuesday at the latest... Excuse me, for the record, I should read the order of entries. They are here with factual remarks by Mr Nacher, Mr Kalousek, Mr Bartoš, but I think that will be all from the vote. And then Mrs Pekarová is signed up with priority rights, then Vice-President Fiala of the ODS, then President Fiala of the SPD, then President Bartoš and then Minister Vojtěch. I hope this will be adequately recorded. Thank you.
