ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u1	514. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 1080/ - shortened negotiations And once again, before the hearing, we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening the debate for a brief hearing. Does anyone report for such a debate? I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House Press 1080, in a shortened hearing." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 285, 85 Members registered, for 60, against no one. We've approved the short-term negotiations. And now I ask the Minister of Health, Jan Blatný, to present the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present here an operationally prepared bill setting out the legal framework for reimbursement. point-of-care antigen tests performed to determine the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antigen. This proposal is presented in the light of the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health, which provides for the obligation for selected social and health service providers to carry out preventive examinations using just mentioned tests for their employees and clients, respectively. patients. Given the number of tests in the order of millions to be taken and distributed by providers of social and health services on the basis of the emergency measures taken, it is necessary to set up an appropriate method of effective payment mechanism. The current wording of the Public Health Insurance Act does not address any similar situation. In view of the need for a rapid solution, it appears most appropriate to pay directly to a distributor who buys antigen tests and subsequently distributes them. Therefore, it is proposed that the provisions of § 17 para. For the purposes of this remuneration, 7 of the Public Health Insurance Act has been supplemented by the case where, under a contract concluded with a person entitled to distribute medical devices, an antigenic test and their distribution to ensure the claims of the insured person has been paid to that person. As a matter of course, I see the fulfilment of understandable parameters, where certification and sensitivity of the test are the main thing. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the implementation of the tests is already covered by the Public Health Insurance Act, which covers the examinations and inspections carried out in the framework of measures against infectious diseases. Unless, for example, social service providers in response to measures against the existing pandemic have already purchased these tests themselves meeting the relevant criteria and should be reimbursed by health insurance companies. The proposed bill is therefore really and only about setting up a method of payment mechanism, which will be as effective as possible in ensuring the payment of a large number of tests to be carried out. In itself, the proposed legislation does not have an impact on the public budget, as it only technically regulates the mechanism under which the reimbursement will take place. The impact on the public health insurance system results from the very need to provide these antigen tests in order to fulfil extraordinary measures to prevent the spread of Coronavirus disease by selected health and social care providers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to adopt a solution to the situation as soon as possible. This will prevent further misunderstandings and delays in the distribution of these tests, as emergency measures for testing clients and employees are already effective. It is therefore also proposed to adopt this proposal in a state of legislative emergency. I would therefore like to ask you to support this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Health, to which the Government's bill has been ordered by the President's decision, has adopted a resolution, we have it available as the House Press 1080/1. The rapporteur will be Mr David Kasal instead of the originally proposed rapporteur, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. But we are in the first reading respectively. in a brief hearing, after all, I am going to ask the House to vote on the agreement to change the rapporteur. I'm just gonna wait a little while before there's enough deputies and MPs. We are voting on the agreement to change the rapporteur. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 286, 87 Members signed in for 73, against no one. Mr David Kasal is the rapporteur and I ask him to inform us about the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u4	Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Health Committee. 324. Resolution of the Committee on Health of the 75th meeting of 10 November 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House Press 1080, discussed pursuant to § 99 of the Rules of Procedure, the state of legislative emergency. After Radek Policar's opening words, Deputy Minister of Health for Legislation and Law, Member Ing's intelligence report. Hana Aulická Jírovcová and after the debate the Committee on Health of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: I. proposes the Chamber of Deputies to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on the bill by Thursday, 12 November 2020 at the latest, within 19 hours; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House Press 1080; V. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to Member . Hana Aulická Jírovcová, by my person, to present the committee's opinion to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; VI. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to Member . Hana Aulická Jírovcová by my person, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies of the Chamber of Deputies, maybe to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u5	Thank you. And we will now decide again by voting whether we will hold a general debate. I will call the Members of Parliament who are in the foyer. We will vote on whether we will have a general debate or not. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 287, 87 Members signed in for 72, against no one. We will have a general debate. I am opening a general debate. Mrs Monika Jarošová is the first to join the debate, and Mr Třešňák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u6	Thank you for the floor. Hello, esteemed colleagues. The legislation of this law proposes that, in the event of an emergency measure, the person who undergoes an ordered examination, in this case an antigen test for COVID-19, should be entitled to reimbursement from public health insurance. The health insurance companies will therefore be obliged to pay for the testing thus carried out, which will be carried out to their insured persons. [[11.40 hours]] However, given the number of tests to be taken and distributed by social and health service providers on the basis of the emergency measures taken, it is also necessary to set up an appropriate method of payment mechanism. According to the petitioner, it appears most appropriate to pay directly to a distributor who buys antigen tests and then distributes them. Accordingly, under the proposed legislation, health insurance companies are expressly authorised to pay directly to the distributor directly from the funds of the basic fund, subject to the additional requirements laid down by the legislation on antigen tests and their distribution directly to the distributor. If this legislation is not approved, providers of health and social services affected by the obligations to ensure testing of their clients and employees would have to purchase the tests themselves and subsequently report for reimbursement to the health insurance undertaking, which is not only a complex process, but also a large investment for providers before payment from insurance companies would take place. That is why this approach, which is proposed by the petitioner, seems easier for health and social services providers. However, the public's attention was certainly not missed by an article that points out that Abbott's stock is currently two million rapid tests worth 240 million, which should be distributed through Avenier. Although the government does not have to follow the Public Procurement Act in the event of an emergency, it would be good for the Minister of Health here to clarify why the tests were selected from Abbott when they are produced by several companies. Those who import them into the Czech Republic even declare that they have better parameters, because in the contract between health insurance companies and Avenier there is a part where it is stated that this was the only possible offer for the purchase of screening POC antigen tests in the Czech Republic declared by the Ministry of Health, as reported on Tuesday List of Reports. And on what basis was Avenier chosen for distribution, which will come for distribution to CZK 30 million? I thank the Minister in advance for answering the questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u7	Thank you. Does the Minister wish to respond with priority rights? Yes, I do. So Minister Blatný has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u8	Thank you for asking. Why are Abbott tests currently being distributed? The reasons are two and are relatively simple. These tests are among those that meet strict criteria, and only Abbott had enough of these tests in its warehouses in the Czech Republic at a time when it was considered or when it was needed to apply these tests. If further purchases are considered, of course, other companies will be addressed and addressed. The number of companies that provide these tests is gradually increasing and increasing. And it is up to the General Health Insurance and other insurance companies to monitor the parameters relating to the professional criteria and specificity, the sensitivity of the tests. As far as Avenier is concerned, there is also a relatively simple answer, because at present Avenier is the only distributor that has existing contracts with all health insurance companies, and therefore on the recommendation of health insurance companies, this company has been selected because it has this contract competing from the past and it is the only distributor that is able to ensure distribution for all insurance companies. If this were not the case, there would have to be new competitions for individual health insurance companies, which would have two negative outcomes. One would be that the whole process would be delayed, and the other would be that there would be an uneven distribution for insured people from different insurance companies, which we would consider to be discrimination, in fact, if access to tests was not the same for all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u9	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák in the general debate, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking, quite frankly, the Minister, Deputy Minister Policar, for answering the set of written questions that we have sent, in a very short time, which actually distracted many concerns about this press. And I can be much more brief. However, I will follow up on the previous discussion, i.e. the previous speakers, with what the Minister has answered. In fact, Pirates and I have been drawing attention all spring and summer to the necessity of building test capacity, i.e. for PCR tests, somewhere between 30 and 50 thousand a day. And it's only now that we see in the autumn that the test capacity is moving at these intervals. But there are regions, to mention the margins, where waiting periods are also 10 days, which is a little late for us to talk about effective testing and then tracking itself. For a long time, we also draw attention to the need for preventive testing in social services. And it is antigenic tests that are certainly a welcome improvement in this situation. However, today we have in a state of legislative emergency the amendment of the law, in particular for one purpose, by buying two million tests from Avenier. Although, and this has been mentioned by the Minister, the law only deals with the payment mechanism itself, and I certainly agree on this technical level, the regulation of the law is to a certain extent universal and does not apply only to one supplier or distributor, however, the Minister should have said that at the outset B, i.e. the process of the current purchase of tests, which was mentioned here in the previous discussion. So if we understand each other well, at this point, we're changing the law so that we can pay for the public health insurance tests, plus one particular distributor, for CZK 319 million? So the first question is why, for example. he did not choose to purchase, for example, the media of the Administration of Material Reserves, or why the Ministry of Health will not buy it directly, and he will not provide the logistics itself through the security system of the Czech Republic, whether the IRS or the army. And I'm getting to the most important part, which was also mentioned here that none of the distributors could deliver more than tens of thousands of test pieces, while one company, by chance, was rolling in a warehouse of two million pieces. And the difference between Abbott's price and Avenier's distributor is CZK 47 apiece. The other question is, therefore, whether it would be more appropriate for health insurance companies to directly assign the role of the distributor for this single specific purpose and not to purchase the tests directly from the manufacturer. Thank you. This is purely a reflection on this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u11	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek, Mrs Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u12	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I am working with Mr Třešňák and the previous speakers. And basically, if I make it very simple, I understand that, it's possible that I'm missing something in the system, that from Monday this week, at least that's how it's been repeated from public sources, it should have started in retirement homes or in endangered homes of testing. So I'd assume the test is already purchased, that it's now being distributed. Distribution has been delayed, and now this law will pass through the House, even in an accelerated procedure, then it will go to the Senate. Then perhaps, hopefully, it will also be approved quickly by the Senate, then signed by the President and then taken place in accordance with him. At least that's how I understand the legislative process. So even if it goes very fast, it's going to take 14 days, three weeks, I don't know what the shortest possible time is. And that means, until then, it won't be tested because the insurance company can't buy the tests, or the insurance company buys them or buys them and expects the law to be passed, and if it doesn't approve, then there will be a solution. It's still unclear to me, this system, what it's actually meant to be. That means either waiting for the law to be passed when the law is passed, now it's said that there's no way to buy the tests, so when the law is passed, the tests can only be bought? Or is it expected that the law will be passed, now the tests have somehow been bought, or did the insurance company get them for free, or I don't know how, it's going to be tested, it's going to be distributed, and then, when the law is passed, it's going to work itself out? I still don't know what the relationship between it is. I'd like to hear a clear and clear answer. I'm gonna ask you that in the interpellations, too. [[11.50 hours]] And then I have a second question. The health committee made it clear that these tests must be with a high sensitivity of 90 percent and with high precision, I think 92 or even 97 percent, which I found very high but good. Does this mean that these tests have this sensitivity and this accuracy? I'd like a clear answer. And if they do, who guarantees that they have this precision and sensitivity? If it's any professional guarantor at the Ministry, if it's the Minister, or who it is exactly, which particular person guarantees that these tests have this precision and sensitivity. That's what the Health Committee said, that's why we have this law written so that we can have these high-quality tests with this high sensitivity. Now here they are, we've already bought - I still don't know, but there's definitely a distribution going on, so I assume they're these top tests with high sensitivity and precision, and some expert said yes, it's verified, I guarantee it, I guarantee it. I think they're simple questions. Thank you so much for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u13	Thank you. Mr Janulík will speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To the professor's margo. We sat on the health committee tonight, and that's where he got the answers. So I don't know if he was distracted by the spirit, or if he was attacked by some sudden deafness, because it really feels like he's spinning around like a dog when he's grabbing his own tail. Are we still gonna talk about the same thing? It was clearly said that this option, which my colleague here mentioned, was now purchased, but it was purchased according to others, I would say, the general regulations that have been so far. And in order to avoid the pitfalls that are there because lawyers have some opinions about it, that's why the Ministry's lawyers created what they created so that the situation wouldn't happen in the future, because until now, no one in the history of this state has ever really solved any such problem, because there was no such problem, so that's why it is. Now you're gonna spin on it and pretend I didn't hear it? We sat there tonight. So what were we meeting for? The answer was there, so I don't know if my colleague's ears were clogged. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u15	Thank you. Mr Válek will respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u16	I am sorry, I really watched through the President, Mr Janulík, and it was so much fun that I could not really concentrate. It's always fun to watch the MP, so maybe that's why I didn't fix everything. Anyway, if you play the footage, I'm just gonna need a simple and simple answer. This law is therefore approved when some tests are purchased in the future, I understand. And the tests she's now bought, two million pieces of tests that the insurance company bought, and what a colleague Třešňák and others were talking about, bought by some other system, something else. 'Cause some of these shows said there's no other way to buy those tests. Well, it went well, maybe it was on the edge of the law, or I don't know why it was possible, and now it's no longer possible, but now we've decided to do it exactly. I am not criticizing it, I just want the information here to be clear on the microphone, because it is not very valid on the Health Committee for most Members, so it would be good to make it clear that way. So far we have bought tests, the insurance company has bought tests according to some legal standard, now we want to clarify the legal standard and we will buy some tests in the future according to this new legal standard. I'm not attacking the standard, I like the law very much, and I'm sure I'll support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u17	Two factual points. Mr Kasal and then President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm gonna put some numbers in there for both of my colleagues' calls. The point was that on Monday the government approved the procedure for buying these tests. By Wednesday, there was a search for the way it would be, and insurance companies were looking for it in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, if there are any general regulations that allow it. As was also said here by Mr Janulík, the regulations were found, but they were, I don't mean, on the edge and some might question them, therefore, even in the future, if something were to be done, this legislative framework is being created so that we can address the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u19	Thank you. President Kalousek also made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u20	Thank you. I just have a polite question. I wasn't on the Health Committee, and I understand that we're in an unprecedented situation. I don't want to question anything, I'd just like an answer to the question, based on and within what legal standards those 2 million tests were purchased. I understand that the others will be purchased according to this standard. But those so-called regulations that were found, can I hear how it was done? I don't want to question it, I just want to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u21	Thank you. Now, in the general debate, Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková, is the last one to be logged in at the moment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Madame Members, I welcome this proposed legislation, whether it concerns the present or the future. I think it really is necessary, because testing is one of the things that can be very helpful in this desperate situation. I was late today because I was waiting for the test results from a daughter who met an infected employee in her job. If she didn't have a negative test, I probably had to be quarantined for the next two weeks, too. So I actually see testing as a very, very effective tool until we have a vaccine until we have proper medication. So I thank the Minister for presenting it. But I have two short notes, both on distribution and on compulsory testing of certain groups. First, distribution. Yesterday in the Zlin Region, I tried to find out what happened to the distribution of tests for social services. And because I'm a curious enough person, I've been trying to figure out where it's going because I've been told that not all the devices have these tests. And I was told by the Head of the Department of the Region that the company Avenier, which is tasked with distributing these tests, simply commits them gradually from the west, and we are in the east, on the eastern border of the Czech Republic, so the eastern part just hasn't had the tests yet. The Ministry set the exact dates, the exact dates, the limits to which the tests were to be carried out. So I'm asking how it was treated to get the tests into the facility and whether it's possibly in the contract, and it must have been a contract with Avenier, applied some penalties for delays. Next thing I knew, I wanted to comment on that group of test subjects. I've already asked the Health Committee last week about how this is supported and whether it is necessary and whether all clients of social services residence facilities have to be subject to mandatory testing, especially for establishments with special Alzheimer's, dementia, people who can't really move anywhere, and who only come to them by staff, so I think there's a small chance that they'd get sick somewhere, if there's no visit, and visitors are banned at this point, as far as I know. So that's one question. [[12.00 hours]] The second question is with autistic children, but there I know that the Minister said that the exception is there, because it really makes a big problem for these children. And while I'm with the kids, I have to say that I really welcome, and I'm an original professor, that the Ministry has stepped up to allow the children of the first and second classes and the smallest children and children of the special schools to enter the schools. These children, especially those sophomores, not that they're going to fall out of the month, two, but he's actually falling out of the second year, and that's actually at the beginning of that schooling, when this kid learns to learn, when he just creates a relationship with education, it's a big problem, including the fact that scissors between children from a socially less stimulating environment, like the terminus technicus in pedagogy, and those kids where the family is able to give a lot of support to children. So I really welcome it. But again, the Czech Medical Chamber draws attention to studies that say that children do not experience COVID-19 as fatally as seniors or adults, but that they can be strong carriers. So my question is not to leave the children at home again, I would hate to do that, and it would not be wise, but my question is whether the Ministry is considering testing for these children who have already started here or will take up the presentation class. I think it would be good, and it could prevent a lot of problems again. I understand that this is a bit more organized again and the problem is also in securing staff, because we have one more information, again from practice, that not all practical doctors are willing to participate in this testing, but we have also discussed this on the Health Committee. And now for the human capacity, I'm still asking if, especially for those clients where it's a question mark, if it really has to be a full-scale test, and also a big question mark is whether they have to be in the periodicity of five days. The terrain from the facility, the way I talked to people, they say it won't be, it won't be manageable. And the educators say that I never give an order that I'm not convinced of as a hundred percent fulfillment because it undermines my authority. And I think at this point, the government must have that authority, it must have the Ministry, it must have the Minister. So, please, for these regulations to really be considered, because only if citizens take those regulations when they are feasible will they be implemented, so we are able to do it as a whole and return the company to normal life. And I thank the Minister once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u23	Have a nice noon. We have a point of fact here. So, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u24	Thank you, Minister. I was just about to follow up on Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, and I am sure that this will be dealt with today also during today's interventions, where I noticed that both Minister Plaga and Minister of Health Blatný have just been intersected. And my question is whether the government is planning some kind of general testing for children, pupils who are actually entering school next week. Yesterday we heard that these measures are loosening up, first, second grade, so I'm wondering when the second stage and overall first degree will open up, but if the government has any results, if covid has spread, spread, and if so... or if there is any testing planned or not, if that's even the plan. I'd like the Minister to comment on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u25	Will the Minister express himself, is Jan Blatný interested in expressing himself? Please, Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to answer those questions concerning today's debate and today's bill. First to the gentlemen of Members, Professor Válek and Mr Kalousek. Of course, the possibility of using SSHR was discussed, but currently only an insurance undertaking can carry out the purchase, so this has been eliminated. Insurance companies also have an obligation to use distributors for distribution, they cannot distribute themselves, so that is the reason that was also mentioned. And the question of the legislation that we have relied on so far was actually a general regulation, Section 30 of the Public Health Insurance Act, which was applied, but there were a number of reservations to it just from individual insurance lawyers, and the government's resolution is then mentioned that the aim is to set it up in the form of some kind of legal regulation, I will zoom it in, for example, similar to those covered by the compulsory vaccines. As regards the delay, on the question of the honourable Member, the delay was due precisely to the fact that it took a very long time for the mechanism to be found together and for everyone to agree on it because it was built only on a general framework. I have said repeatedly that this delay, which could not actually be completely eliminated, then led to the fact that although the primary term given by the Government's resolution is not fulfilled, but that no one will in any way penalize it, and à priori follows from the legal interpretation of the Ministry of Health's lawyers, where there is no other way to do so when I do not have the test available. And the last comment about the clients, so there we have repeatedly expressed in the sense that in no way will anyone enforce it on those clients where it is not possible or appropriate to do so. I'm just going to argue a little bit that these people can't be infected with coronavirus - they can be through employees who actually move between the individual clients, that is, those who are infected and not infected, and they also move in their home environment. And very briefly, even though it does not concern this debate here, to the general testing of children. Those measures, which are at the lower level below the basic matrix of measures, which will be presented on Friday, under certain circumstances and in certain areas count on testing some cohorts, but are not currently expected to test children in the first and second classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u27	The rapporteur, Mr David Kasal, is now reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u28	Thank you. I will still respond to a few things that have been said, it was up to colleague Třešňák to respond, because his contribution was why health insurance companies do not distribute or are not distributors. That's not their function. Health insurance companies pay for health care and, in principle, they would not have the capacity to do so. And in a situation, if we wanted to do it right now, quickly, it would be a way that would lead to the fact that the tests didn't get there. And a reaction to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Now I'm gonna talk like a pediatrician. I can't imagine field testing in general in children, plus antigen tests are mainly for symptom subjects. In the vast majority of children there are symptomsless, so the tests would be negative, and on the contrary, as a repeat investigation, the children have a bit of psychosomatic problems. So, of course, it's a very difficult question, but I'm sure I'll say for pediatricians that I'm not up for field testing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u29	I will look around the hall to see if there is still interest in the speech in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Minister, Mr. Rapporteur? There is no interest, so I am opening up a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. I don't have anyone on the floor, I'd rather look around the O.R. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Minister, Mr. Rapporteur? Not interested, so I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. And since - now I wanted to ask, just to check it out, the rapporteur, I want to make sure that no amendments have been tabled. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u30	Yes, no amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u31	So I think we could proceed immediately to the third reading. And because according to § 99 para. 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure can follow the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, so I begin the third reading of the submitted Government Bill. I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr David Kasal, to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the debate that I am opening up with this. Anyone reporting for the debate? I don't see anyone. So if no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I ask again the final words. You see how much space you have here today, and not interested. So I am asking Mr David Kasal's rapporteur to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u32	The procedure for voting will be simple. I was still making sure in the legislation that everything was okay in terms of legislative technical adjustments, so it's all okay. No amendment has been tabled, so we should vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-12-ps2017-062-09-005-514.u33	That's right. So I'm going to call the Members of the Gong to the Chamber. I think we're in sufficient numbers here, so we're going to vote on the law as a whole. I'm opening the vote. Who's... The Minister's position? Sorry again. I'll end the vote. [[I agree.]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? I'm sorry. As confused as it was here, I will have to declare this vote confusing because I have overlooked here that I still have to read the motion for a resolution on which we will vote. So I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, pursuant to the House Press 1080, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." So now I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 290 entered 90 Members, for 66, against 1. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. We will now proceed to the next point. Before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on higher education institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws /Higher Education Act/, as amended, and other related laws, House press 1081, shortened negotiations, we would in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening the debate. I don't see anybody, so if no one else is in the debate, I will end the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 1081, in a shortened hearing." [[Higher education law]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 291, 89 Members signed up, for 73, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. So now I'm opening up a point.
