ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-001-001.u1	1. Motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on how reports, information or other similar documents are discussed in the Chamber of Deputies (Department document 5222/ The proposal is therefore contained in this House document and has been delivered to you on 13 May 2020. I ask that President Radek Vondráček, who, if he agrees, will also be the rapporteur, take the floor for the plaintiff. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The motion for a resolution is related to the adopted amendment to the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which we approved as plenary in Section 90 at the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in this parliamentary term. The Senate approved the amendment without comments and was announced in the Collection of Laws on 15 April 2020 under number 167/2020. One of the more substantial changes it contains is the adjustment of the way the reports, information and other similar documents are discussed. In particular, it is part 18 of the Rules of Procedure of Sections 114a and 114b. Briefly to his principle. It is such that most of the reports, or we can say the supporting documents, are discussed by the committee responsible, the resolution of the committee responsible in substance will be considered as a decision by the Chamber of Deputies, at the moment of approval of the programme of the nearest meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This effect will not occur in the case of supporting documents which, in accordance with § 1 para. The Rules of Procedure shall define the autonomous resolution and which we are discussing right now. It is based on the assumption that some documents are so significant that they should always be discussed in plenary. This is an exhaustive list of documents: reports of the petition committee on the petitions received, their content and manner of processing, annual reports on the activities and management of Czech Television, annual reports on the activities and management of Czech Radio, annual reports on the activities and management of the Czech Press Office, reports and information submitted by the Ombudsman, draft state final account, report on the evaluation of the implementation of the state budget and medium-term outlook of the state budget, budgets of state funds and grant programmes in agriculture, annual reports on the results of the Czech National Bank's management, reports by the National Budget Board on the long-term sustainability of public finances and annual report by the Supreme Audit Office. The Rules of Procedure also recall cases where, in plenary discussion, a document which is not included in this resolution may force a legally defined House minority, or a committee, or written requests received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, or a motion submitted in the proceedings under Section 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5. [[9.10 hours]] The new way of discussing - and this is probably the most important - reports, information or other similar documents will apply to the newly elected Chamber of Deputies in the next parliamentary term. In conclusion, this adjustment was agreed jointly by all representatives of the Members' Clubs within the Working Group on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and I am now submitting the said resolution on the basis of this agreement. Thank you for your attention, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, too. It seems that the House has calmed down, which I am pleased about. I would like to inform the House that Mr Benda will vote with Mr Benda's replacement vote card number 2. Also, some new note cards were delivered here. Mrs Hyťhová apologizes today between 9.00 and 9.30 for health reasons, Mrs Majerová Zahradníková until 12.00 for work reasons, and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík at the beginning of the meeting, that is to say until 9.30, for personal reasons. I am now initiating a general debate that I do not have applications for. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. It's not like that. In that case, we would like to proceed to a debate in detail, which I also have no one to report to. So I am also ending this detailed debate. I'm asking again if there's an interest in the final word. It's not like that. In that case, we will vote on the motion for a resolution, as it was delivered to you and as it was presented in the introductory words. I've already called my colleagues once, but I'll do it again. [[Gong.]] I believe there are sufficient numbers of us and all those who want to be present are already present. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the superior. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 3, 139 Members and Members have voted for 129, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you, Prime Minister, thank you all. That concludes item 1 and we move on to the second point of today's meeting. And then I'll hand over the chair again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-001-001.u4	I'm opening the second point of today's meeting, and that's it.
