ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u1	68. Proposal by Members Adam Kalous, Pavel Kováčik, Jan Volný, Jan Pošvář, Zdeněk Podal, Antonín Staněk, Jana Krutáková and others for the law on the promotion of gardening activities (garden law) /house print 634/ - first reading We have the Government's position at our disposal as House Press 634/1. prosit would like Mr Adam Kalous to present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. So let me start by introducing the law on the promotion of gardening activities, or, in short, gardening law. The proposed proposal follows up on previous repeated efforts to adopt legislation supporting gardening activities and the proposal that I am now proposing is the fourth attempt to adapt and support gardening activities by legislative means. I submitted this proposal together with colleagues from the subcommittee on hunting, fishing, beekeeping, gardening and breeding. I believe he has support across the political spectrum. But I'm not gonna propose a 90-year hearing or a shortening of deadlines. Members from seven MPs have joined this law. Firstly, I would like to mention that the legislation governing gardening activities exists in all the surrounding countries. In connection with this law, I would say three words - tradition, massiness, utility. As far as tradition is concerned, gardening activities have been here since the 19th century. I'm not gonna say any historical field trip here. However, the activity developed in different ways during the 20th century. Currently, the gardening activity is carried out mainly by the basic organizations and members of the Czech Gardening Union, which consists of more than 2,000 basic organizations, which are divided according to the territorial associations. The Czech Garden Association currently has some 130,000 members. And according to the Czech Statistical Office, about 300 to 350 000 citizens of the Czech Republic are engaged in gardening activities. [[12.00 hours]] One of the main objectives of the law is to establish gardening activities as publicly beneficial. In my opinion, the public benefit is shown by increasing public interest in the issues of ecology and the combination of nature with life in the city and efficient, economical use of land, which, in particular, in the cities of the splintering and helping the development of green areas, for example, in large towns of gardening settlements perform the function of public greenery. Gardening is a non-profit activity of citizens with significant positive environmental impacts and a healthy lifestyle. The basic law containing the status of public benefit is the Civil Code, where the public benefit is currently regulated only in Section 146, where it is stated that the legal person whose mission is to contribute in accordance with the founding legal act is his own activity to achieve the general well-being, provided that the decision of the legal person has a significant effect only on the integrity of the person and that he has acquired assets from honest sources and that he is economically using his assets for a public benefit. Although gardening activity in the Czech Republic has a long tradition and social importance and potential, it is not different at present, as I mentioned at the outset, from the surrounding states explicitly adapted in no separate legislation. The Civil Code is used for the implementation of the activities of the Czech Garden Association, or gardeners of community or urban areas, in particular its provisions on registered associations and contractual types used for rent or the scent of land of basic organizations or small gardeners. The aim of this material is therefore, in accordance with the above, to adjust the position, the public benefit of the garden movement in the legal order of the Czech Republic, and thus help create the prerequisites for the implementation of its mission at local and national level. At the same time, allow me to invite you to the round table on the issue of garden law, which I hold next week on Tuesday 4. 2:00 p.m. in the State Act. So much for the introduction, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u3	I wish you a nice noon and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Monika Oborná to take the floor. Well, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The submitted regulation of the gardening law here has already been very clear and accurately described by my colleague, the promoter Adam Kalous, so since this is a comprehensive regulation that regulates gardening activities and sets out the way in which the land is left or owned for gardening activities, I would like to ask you to support this proposal and to move forward with the discussions in committee. That's all for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u5	I am opening a general debate in which I have with priority the President of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik, and Mr Jan Pošvář will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. At Friday noon, we finally get back to discussing the garden law once in a while. I want to point out that this is the joint work of the seven and others, but of the seven signed translators. I want to thank my colleague Kalous for taking on the lead translator role for all of us, this is the first time. For the second time, it is the result of 20-year efforts, although the law is very narrow, but many times discussed, many times shaken from right to left, from top to bottom, from bottom to top, many times despised, many times passed, and I am also one of those who have spent years trying to bring legislation closer to that Central European standard. Because we are not alone in the case of the approval of this law, we would have a gardening law. The very strict and very clear and long-standing law of gardening is especially in Germany, where we have been inspired by it, but also in some other Central European countries, wherever gardening is a specific national phenomenon, regardless of the regime that exists. If it was already in Austria, if it was in the first Republic, if it was in socialism, or if it was now, it was always said when the regime changed: it was just a run away from what was ugly here. But oddly enough, and now it's obvious a lot, gardening is regaining its meaning. There's a new powerful hint of this movement towards community gardens, urban gardens, garden colonies, the restoration of this activity where it may have long since vanished. And I must say that what was taken for granted before is that the gardening colony belongs to the green lung city and to the town's colorite, it is often the past in a fight with predatory developers, where the previously barren land treated by generations of gardeners becomes interesting land for various projects, whether housing or non-residential construction, business and so on. In this context, the presentation of the law and its proper discussion of importance take place precisely in a situation where this, as I say, public interest in environmental protection and the noble activities of gardeners against the incomparably stronger efforts to liquidate those colonies, needs to be put into some balance. I think it would be a good idea for us, in particular, to look at this situation in detail at the Committee's second reading and find some way out so that the outcome is not merely a declaration, although the mere declaration is very valuable. A mere declaration that gardening is a public benefit, above all useful, and especially in the direction of working with young people is also a noble activity for the future. I would like to intercede as one of the petitioners and one of the oldest carriers of this idea, so that we can properly discuss this proposal and support it all. Thank you for listening to me for so long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u7	Now one point of fact. Mr Zdeněk Podal will appear and Mr Jan Pošvář will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u8	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, almost everything has been said here, and as a translator, I will stress: yes, tradition, massiness, utility. I think that alone would be enough to support this law. In times of effort to keep water in the countryside, such activity is more than godly. She supports and is grateful for this comprehensive adjustment of the SPD. Thank you for the gardener.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u9	Now another factual point. Mr Dominik Feri, so far the only application for a factual one. So Mr. Jan Pošvář is still prepared subsequently. So please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u10	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur, through Mr President, wondered that I was working in gardening. I worked in Prague. I don't work much anymore. But what I have to say is that the petitioners are working for us in private law. You are introducing new contractual types to us, and I am a little appalled in terms of legislative technology that, after 20 years of debate mentioned here by Mr. Honorable President Kováčik, it does not seem that it would be really clear that we need the law. And it's point number 1 in the government's opinion. Is it really something that follows from the circumstances, some activity that results from the conditions of private law that must have such new regulation? I don't question it at all, and I don't want to put it that way, that it is a very significant activity, beneficial in all directions. But do we really need a new law for that? At a time when we're adopting these laws here, and we're often blamed? I'm not convinced. [[12.10 hours]] And as for the debate afterwards, I don't know why the guarantee committee is proposed as an agricultural committee. After all, everyone who has ever been in the council has dealt with the issues of gardening colonies very often, and by that guarantee committee, according to my court, should be a committee on public administration and regional development, and precisely for the intervention into private law, the Civil Code, or the scope of the Civil Code, and the regulation of a new contractual type, I would even think that some position should be given by the Ministry of Justice on compliance. I understand that we have the Bundeskleingartengesetz in Germany, the law of gardening, in other countries as well, in neighboring countries, but do we need to adapt it to the new law? I will not propose any rejection, no return to work, but please look at this also by looking at legislation, lawmaking, and also by looking at the Civil Code, and I believe that other colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u11	Now, three factual points, so I'll read the order. First of all, Mr Ondřej Veselý, Mr Josef Kott and Mr Pavel Kováčik will speak. So in that order, it's factual. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u12	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I was provoked by Dominik Feri by you for this performance. The question of whether we need gardening laws... the question is what laws we need at all. However, gardening is an activity in the public interest. I totally agree with what the translator here said. And it's true that it's very hard to define, and the gardeners are struggling with it, that their activities are in the public interest. I am deeply convinced that their activity is really in the public interest, it is not only a question of ecology that has been mentioned here, but it is a question of social contacts, the link between the old and the youngest generation, the question of health, because, of course, those gardeners come to grow those products at an older age, but thus improve their fitness, so that there are many things for which I think the activity is in the public interest. It is precisely that they find it difficult to enter into the definition of the Civil Code, for me, among other things, that I will support the law and that, in my opinion, it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u13	Mr Josef Kott, with a factual remark, will now prepare Pavel Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. To some extent, that comment has already been made by my previous speaker here. There's only one thing I'd like to add to that. This law, as Mr. Kováčik said, has been here several times. And I think that in this form, as is now presented, it is the best-developed form, which was also a compromise on the part of the Czech Gardening Union. And I believe and agree that this is, of course, a matter that should also be discussed in other committees, but we must find some consensus between protecting the gardener as such on the one hand and, on the other hand, giving sufficient means to the representatives and the town hall so that they can behave with the care of the proper economy and not being simply blamed in the future and, if necessary, drawn to the fact that they have not acted properly in the care of the proper economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u15	Pavel Kováčik, Chairman of the KSČM Club, will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask that we listen well. The law does not only address the relations for which my colleague Feri - whom I understand and agree with him - should also be discussed by the Public Administration Committee. But it's not just a solution to property relations that contains the law of gardening. For this integrity, we propose for this superstructure and we hold the proposal for a guarantee committee as an agricultural committee, we do not defend ourselves, on the contrary, we will support the proposal for discussion in the Public Administration Committee as well. And I think I can speak for all the submitters in this way, because as we agreed on almost all those matters between the submitters, we agree that it is not only, but that it is also about property relations. Thus, also for the Public Administration Committee, possibly other committees. After all, I remind you of the practice that has been quite common here before and has been forgotten in recent years, or forgets that it is also possible for the committee, any committee, to take any press in some way actively, taking initiative to discuss it without being ordered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u17	I now call for Mr Jan Pošvář's speech, because there is no more factual point. Please, you have the floor. And so far, the last application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank all the Members who supported this proposal with their signature. I would also like to thank the Czech Gardening Union and, above all, their lawyers, who prepared this proposal in cooperation with legislation from the Ministry of Agriculture. But I certainly don't want to thank the news server today, which confuses people's heads. 12. On the 12th of last year, an article came out with a headline that gardeners want a new law, it's a pasculi, a warm opposition. The article then presents the law, Mr Benda's opinion is mentioned, while the opposition is signed by Members Zdeněk Podal of the SPD, Mrs Jana Krutáková of the Mayors and Independents, Monika Jarošová of the SPD, Radek Holomčík of the pirát, Stanislav Juránek of the People's Party and last but not least my little thing for the Pirates. The proposal is thus supported by Members of four opposition parties from six, and it can therefore be said that the proposal is supported by the opposition. If we want to know who does not really support this proposal, it is the government. If you read the government's statement, you will find there among a handful of good comments and obvious malice. The government argues, for example, that the adoption of a new government regulation, in particular of a public nature, should always be justified by a clear and long-term social need which, according to the Government's view, has not been demonstrated in the case of the proposal submitted. Only the Czech Gardening Union itself represents 134 thousand members from all over the Republic. This is the fourth attempt to enforce the law of gardeners, and it has long pointed out the problems of gardeners. Therefore, the long-term social need is and clearly described in detail in the explanatory memorandum. Furthermore, the government is questioning the public benefits, even suggesting that gardeners may harm nature. When he looks at our landscape, while our forests and fields are slowly dying, in garden colonies, it is a varied life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u19	So I will now look around to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the applicant's representative or rapporteur is interested in the final words. You're not interested. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Mr. Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u20	Thank you for the floor. As I have already prescribed, the law is primarily about municipalities. There's no way they're out. I understand that the gardening union has written this in cooperation with the Department of Agriculture, they are not covering it up, and it is right that they have consulted with them here. But within the Chamber of Deputies, this should be dealt with primarily by the Public Administration Committee. The ownership relations with the municipality are a key aspect, the public benefit as well. We can also deal with the issues of the new type of contract or the specific type of contract, but it should definitely not be an agricultural committee. This means that I propose a committee on public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u21	So as a guarantee, you propose public administration and regional development. I wonder if anyone is suggesting any other proposal to order the committee as a guarantee. I do not see another proposal, so first we will vote on the counterproposal. There's a check-out request. Someone's knocking, so I'll check you out and check you in again. We will now first vote on the proposal for a guarantee committee, on the counter-proposal of Mr Dominik Feri. This means that if you agree with the person... who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 197, 126 Members signed in, for 44, against 21. The motion was denied. So we will vote on who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 198, registered 127 Members, for 124, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Yes, Mr. Dominik Feri. Anyone else checking in? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u22	Thank you for the floor. I propose the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on Constitutional Law, because the aspect of the contract, the setting up at all, the intervention in contract law is so great that we should discuss it at least briefly. And we should also discuss this for the sake of lawmaking, because I think this is an extraordinary law in the sense that it is redundant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-007-068.u23	There. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees. I don't see anyone, so we'll take the vote. So we will be the first to vote on Mr Feri's proposal that the next committee to discuss this proposal should be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 199, registered 127 Members, for 124, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as another committee. We will now proceed to the vote on Mr Feri's further proposal to discuss this proposal also by the constitutionally-legal committee. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 200, registered 127 Members, for 51, against 25. The motion was denied. So this is what we discussed. We'll proceed with the next proposal. This is about
