ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u1	337. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 /German press 1067/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Budget Committee, Miloslava Vostrá, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We have received amendments as House press 1067/3, and we have proposals for accompanying resolutions at our disposal as House press 1067/4. I would remind you that the examination of the draft State Budget Act is governed by Sections 101 to 106 of our Rules of Procedure and that the bill is not directed to the Guarantee Committee for consideration. Before I open the debate, I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa, to present a set of amendments, accompanying resolutions and to make a proposal for a voting procedure. Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u2	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to the draft procedure for discussing and voting the draft State budget for 2021. As the Vice-President has already said, amendments, all amendments are mentioned in the press 1067/3. As always, we would start with the amendments in Table A, which are the proposals that emerged from the discussions of the various committees. We would then continue with the amendments as they were read here at second reading, and that, according to the table, means by number in the order you have in resolution 1067/3. After voting in favour of amendments and voting on the bill as a whole, we would decide on the accompanying resolutions that you have in press 1067/4 if this bill was adopted and again emerged from the various committees. [[9.10 hours]] I just want to point out, colleagues, that the amendments that are against the government budget reserve, which is by law - I have 3.36 percent here, as proposed in the draft state budget, so those amendments that will go against the government budget reserve, where funds will no longer be voted out. I have a table here, so I'm going to keep an eye on it, and if this situation happens, I'm going to warn you that the government's budget reserve is already exhausted, which means that the other amendments to this item will no longer be voteable. So much for the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u3	I thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets and open the debate. This is a third reading debate, including the proposed procedure. We have several applications with priority rights, but the consensus is that the first person to speak is Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words to begin the third reading on the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021. With expenses of 1808 billion. The deficit of the draft budget is CZK 320 billion. Crowns. This is the highest planned budget deficit for the next year in the modern history of the independent Czech Republic, absolutely even in relative terms. To compare, a deficit of 4,1% of GDP was approved for 2010, i.e. after the global financial crisis. For 2021, the proposal amounts to 5,5 percent of GDP. Next year's budget deficit follows the deepest global recession since the end of World War II. It will be implemented in a year that is very likely to be carried out in the spirit of a mild and fragile recovery. But the state budget and public finances are not just books. In order to fulfil their functions, the deficit for 2021 makes sense both economically and socially. I understand that for many of you, such deficits are difficult to accept. We are not used to such high deficits in the Czech Republic, fortunately. Nevertheless, I consider it crucial that the state budget continues to fulfil its macroeconomic function in order to help stabilise the economy next year. The deficit structure shows that, after deduction of revenue from the European Union, it consists of a decline in revenue in the order of 190 billion. The rest are 53 billion over the medium term. higher health spending, 25 billion. increased investment of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure or by 8 billion. enhanced appropriations for unemployment benefits. In addition, the contributions to the European Union increased by 5.5 billion. or by 3.6 billion. pension and sickness insurance benefits. Last but not least, it's 4.4 billion. in addition to regional education. Overall, however, there is one thing that applies to the draft state budget - it is a post-crisis budget. At the cost of higher debt, it increases expenditure on social security, science, research, education, investment in physical infrastructure. It does not undermine the economy's feet by increasing taxation or by non-systemic cuts. In an environment of low government bond yields, it is an investment to quickly return to normal. I am of the opinion that we simply cannot afford longer-term stagnation or repetition of the recession. Still, we cannot afford a budget provisional, but for a completely different reason than some of you seem to think. I consider the state budget for 2021 to be a beacon in stormy waters, a fixed point in the midst of a destabilized economy and an unsolved pandemic. The provisional would then increase the already extreme degree of uncertainty. And now, please pay attention to what this budget provisional is, because maybe you don't all know in detail. On the contrary, the planned expenditure of the state budget would increase the budgetary make-up. With the $500 billion deficit of this year's state budget, it would allow the government to manage nearly $5 billion. extra monthly, more precisely with 57 billion. for a whole year that wouldn't be tied to anything. I repeat, they wouldn't be tied to anything. But what the government would be limited to is the use of resources from unused claims. For example, investment actions that have not been completed this year or in previous years, as well as promised aid, the drawdown of which has not been completed in 2020. This includes projects for municipalities and regions. No transfers between chapters or government budget reserves can then be made. These are the consequences of the provisional budget. On the one hand, it will allow one more percent of GDP to increase the deficit, on the other hand, it will slow down some of the ongoing actions or allocated assistance from this year. However, we are already in the third reading of the bill. I would therefore sum up the amendments now. 127 proposals were tabled, with an overall amount reaching almost 282 billion. Compared to last year, there was an increase of 102 billion. more. The proposals for amendment cover almost all budget chapters, and their adoption would mean an extensive intervention in the expenditure structure of the state budget. Moreover, some of them also represent a reduction in the expenditure co-financed by European Union funds. As they are linked to the revenue of the state budget, their acceptance would undermine the fixed amount of total revenue, expenditure and the balance after the first reading. I therefore believe that such amendments are unvoting. This also applies to the government's budgetary reserve. The Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines its minimum level. This amounts to 0,3 per cent of the total expenditure of the State budget. The government bill proposed a budgetary reserve of 0.36% of total expenditure, which is 6.5 billion. Crowns. The amendments, which mean the reduction of the budgetary reserve below the legal limit, are again unvoting. Details of the amendments are given in the Houses of the Press and I will then communicate my opinion on the individual proposals immediately before their vote. Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of social, economic and political possibilities, we have drawn up a draft budget to help bridge the gap so unfortunately this year's open disease COVID-19. It has hit the economy with a deep recession, for which a large number of public funds have been spent to reduce people's standard of living and to keep the economy's core pillars functioning. Please allow us to continue this effort. Allow us not to come out of the crisis weakened, but to the contrary, to the fullest of our strength. Please don't turn off the beacon and let it shine for the whole Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u5	Thank you, Minister of Finance, and we will now continue the debate by speaking to colleagues who have priority rights. First is Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip, then Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, we are faced with a decision on the State budget for 2021 and it is not a simple decision. For 2020, we started with a deficit of CZK 40 billion, which was finally approved after long battles and changes in the situation, not changes that political parties would want, but changes caused by the world pandemic COVID-19, to 500 billion. It wasn't anything that would be good, easy for each of us. In the end, the responsibility to watch the citizens of the Czech Republic who are losing jobs who have no chance to return to their work, which they have chosen, or whether the state will help, must prevail. And it will also help those who, in December, January 2020 or February 2020, still say that the state needs less, that what the state would actually want, and now see nothing more than to say: state, give, state, take care of, state, make it work, let us have some compensation for the outage in our business. Yes, this is the reality of this year, because the reality of 2019 was quite different, it was a question of booming and it was also a question of different thinking of a number of people who did not intend to change it until the crisis hit them completely. We are in the same situation today when we know that after the first wave of the world pandemic COVID-19, it has not ended, that we have a second wave and that it is not developing favorably. That some are convinced that this does not apply to them, others are convinced that the government is doing something late, that our measures are too hard, without realizing that beyond the borders of our state, these measures are much harder, much more consistent, including sanctions, and that the thinking of some who are infected with neoliberalism is already beyond the edge of possible, beyond the edge of at all acceptable from those who have gone through or had it at least in the family. How to get out of this situation? Whether we're going to think about old schematics or new schematics. It is evident that those countries that have faced their economies to ensure that both the public sector and the private sector operate are more responsible for what is possible and what is not possible. They do not propose things that, on the one hand, increase the expenditure of the state budget and at the same time reduce the possibilities of revenue. Of course, such steps are completely pointless. They lack logic, lack the most important thing that each proposal has to contain; what the future will be and whether we are dealing with the situation just for today or for the steps they will have to follow when we pay off the individual debts. And debts that will be repaid not only by natural and legal persons, but by the state and its public budgets, because public budgets always have to breathe together, because when they breathe against each other, of course, the entire state mechanism will fall apart, or if you want the company's mechanism. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, aware of how difficult the situation is, has been very responsible for all drafts of the state budget for 2020. It did not propose populist steps that could lead to a dramatic fall in the revenue of the state budget, but it also supported all the steps that lead to individual State entities, whether they are authorities, whether they are natural persons doing business, whether they are employees, whether they are legal persons operating here, whether with the Czech or foreign owners, to survive, to work. Individual programs can certainly have their flaws. But on the other hand, it was obvious that the steps we are taking can only lead us to overcome this crisis, so that all those who have the chance to restore their business to do so. And the situation was right. At the moment the COVID-19 pandemic was extinguished in June and July of this year, what good steps this House took in approving the state budget for 2020. Because the increase in economic performance was six-, seven percent, and in some sectors even higher. Yes, there were sectors that did not have the opportunity to restore their dynamics, whether it was tourism or hospitality or the like, where they had only a short time to resume their activities. From all of this, we started discussing with the government the state budget for 2021. Our actions have led us to strengthen those elements that have a direct impact on the need that the citizens of the Czech Republic have. The first such step was the enforcement of the amendment to the Health Insurance Act and the strengthening of funds for state insured persons. Yes, this step meant an increase in the deficit for the state budget that we talked about when we supported 500 million (?) Crown of the state deficit. Why? Because we knew that health care would be the fundamental pillar of treatment, the protection of the health of citizens of the Czech Republic. It was not an easy step, it was a step that he had to follow, and let us be glad that he succeeded, that the health funds were precisely because they were from health insurance and that they were from individual programs. The second step we took was on social services so that we could ensure that those who come after the disease would have to be separated from their families in order to provide care. It was also no easy step, but it was a step necessary and necessary. It is evident that this step has also succeeded and that the situation in our country is not yet the same as in some states west of us, or east of us or south, but it is a situation which clearly means that our systems are still fully operational. The third consideration that led us to plan our actions for the state budget of 2021 was how big the deficit should be and how individual chapters of the state budget will behave in this deficit. Finally, we complied with the government, and at first reading, we approved a deficit of 320 billion. And I am convinced that this has been a step in the right direction, based on the evolution of the state deficit for 2020, and on how the government has decided in favour of individual entities in the economic system of the state. [[9.30 hours]] And then there was the thought that had to come, that is - is it possible to dismantle our reserves in individual chapters? Is it possible to dismantle the government's reserve to deal with unexpected situations? Will the second wave be the last? Or will the waves of the third and fourth follow? This was a reflection that led us to talk about the various chapters of the state budget so that we could realise what is possible and what is necessary. We are aware of the great work of firefighters, we are aware of the great work of soldiers, we are aware of the great work of those who work as volunteers. We are also aware of what the emergency situation meant by transferring medical school students to the health system. We realize what it meant to secure these services. That is why we have finally addressed the transfers that we have proposed both in the Committee on Budgets and now at the Chamber of Deputies at second reading, in order to strengthen social systems by 1.2 billion. Kroner, to strengthen the Fire Rescue Corps by 120 miles. CZK and Police of the Czech Republic by 280 million. Crowns. Finally, we proposed the biggest move that has become the cornerstone of our solution and agreement with the YES movement, with which we have an agreement on tolerance. Many blame me for this agreement. I am convinced that the agreement we have concluded is advantageous for the state for this crisis, for the citizens of the Czech Republic, and therefore we demand that the government's budgetary reserve be strengthened by a move of 10 billion. CZK from the Ministry of Defence chapter. We're not taking any budget increases from the DOD. 72 billion. strengthens to 75 billion. And we know it could be 10 billion. return even back to the chapter of the Ministry of Defence, because it may be necessary to re-enlist soldiers to perform a medical profession, perhaps it will be necessary to call them to help the Police of the Czech Republic. It may be necessary to call for help from the Fire Rescue Corps to work in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic in this difficult crisis. I know that this is a decision that will be challenged by those who think only ideologically and in the old schemes of whether this step is a step in the right direction. But I really don't know, I don't have a crystal ball, and I don't think you do, either, to guess what could happen in the ongoing pandemic crisis of COVID-19 in 2021. I think that a good caretaker always creates reserves, creates them so that he is able to postpone certain matters, he is able to support certain matters immediately, and he keeps his hands free for some steps. It's not simple, it's not complicated. It's nothing we can't understand that anyone who's trying to manage well can't understand. Yes, it has become a political issue, this move, but a subject that clearly tells citizens that primarily the state budget thinks of them, that the government creates such reserves if the crisis deepens, that it will have the means to address the need either in supporting some compensation or in supporting the sending of soldiers to those places in the Czech Republic where it is necessary to help the health sector, whether it will be the protection of the population, whether it will help the Fire Department in the distribution and functioning of the IRS. Yes, we talked about the pointless move that the former governments have taken here, I think, since the Secretary of Defense was Vlasta Parkanová and the civil defense regiments have abolished, it is necessary to correct. We talked about this with the Ministry of Defence, we talked about it with the Ministry of the Interior, with the Fire Rescue Corps, and we realize that this may also be necessary and that we will have to talk about this in 2021. This is a real situation, because the separation of these soldiers is obviously necessary, just as it was necessary this year. If this has become a dispute, it is a dispute that is waged by those who do not perceive a concrete realisticly justified situation in the Czech Republic and only consider in the old schemes in the interests of those or those. We have pointed out several times that employment needs to be maintained in those companies that serve the Army of the Czech Republic, whether it is the Military Repair Plant, Malešice Air Repair Company, whether it is ERA Pardubice or other companies, and we see it as a need for these companies to create sufficient reserves to enable them to function. Since all aid may also be granted, all compensation will not keep all undertakings operational and unemployment may increase, and that, if these undertakings are functional and work, they can address any increase in unemployment. Yes, that was our consideration. Some may find it odd, some may find it wrong, but we have considered it this way, we have been hiding nothing, and since September we have been honest about what the state budget for 2021 should look like, working and arguing with those with government responsibilities. We do not carry it, but we feel responsible for the citizens of the Czech Republic. And we want to kidnap that responsibility. That is why we are strengthening the systems that are needed, health care, social systems, police, firefighters. And, of course, we're creating reserves to keep these systems operational. This may seem too little to you, but we believe that in this difficult crisis situation, this is a step in the right direction. That is why we will insist that our amendments be discussed, approved, so that we can also support the state budget at third reading, because we believe that this state budget, albeit with such a large deficit, can help the Czech Republic overcome this deep crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u7	Thank you. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will now appear, then the rapporteur, Miloslava Vostrá. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a final reading here today, a final meeting on the government's draft state budget for 2021. And the government is proposing a deficit of CZK 320 billion in astronomical terms. The SPD movement promotes and supports the increase in pensions, the abolition of supergross wages and the increase in the tax payer's discount so that working people have more money in their wallets, or financial support for all people affected by government coronavirus measures. We support financial, social and health support for all decent people. But the government has prepared a budget that throws money away for inadaptables, for immigration political nonprofits, solar barons, and so on. And such a budget will not be supported by members of the SPD. [[9.40 hours]] Why does the government finance a nonprofit organization called the Refugee Aid Organization, which actively promotes migration to the Czech Republic? This refugee aid organization, funded by the government, even this year sued the Czech Republic in the name of two illegal Afghan migrants, and the world, wonder, Czech courts, she won the Czech courts the nonprofit and condemned the Czech Republic to pay 180,000 crowns each to these two illegal Afghan migrants, because they said the police didn't treat them the way they should or in accordance with the law. Well, they said they were placed in some other facility than they were supposed to. Well, it still cost us CZK 180,000 times two, 360,000 from our public budget out of all taxpayers' pockets. And this nonprofit is run by Mr. Rozumek, so this is paid by the government of the YES movement, the ČSSD from the budget, by the way, from this year's budget, i.e. with the support of the KSČM. And no one really wants to go to the SPD to support such a budget because we say don't give that money to any political nonprofits or to the fact that courts are winning here because they represent illegal Afghan migrants. We say let's give them to Czech decent people. Czech decent people, Czech businessmen, Czech companies must receive this money from the Czech budget. The same is true for the payment of social support that is inadaptable. For six months now, there's a bill from the SPD pen to end the abuse of dosages that are inadaptable. Yes, he has already been through the first reading, and I thank the Members of the other parties for supporting our proposal. He's been through his first reading, but we're really busy here at second reading. It's been here for months and it's January again. And next year, the elections and the SPD movement are already in October, and we were planning on shutting it down, ending the abuse and payment of social benefits inadaptable. Well, it's stretching because the SPD members are only 19 out of 200, so we don't have much here, and we're back before the state budget next year, and it's back there that the government supports the inadaptable at the expense of decent working people, at the expense of disabled people, at the expense of seniors. So again, that's just a budget item that we can't agree with. The SPD simply disagrees with it, because we say, let's make the payment of social support through the work history, and let's say it's really for citizens who can't help themselves, that means for those who, for example, are proven invalids, etc. The SPD movement has tabled more than 20 amendments in which we propose to move billions of crowns from items that bring nothing to decent people, towards supporting decent and working people. It is especially necessary to support disabled, old-age and other pensioners, employees, businessmen, students and small and medium-sized Czech companies even more in the crisis. But the government is rejecting our amendments. And I'll be specific. The government would rather buy new military fighting vehicles in Germany for 50 billion crowns than give the 50 billion to support our citizens. The SPD movement supports the Czech army and our soldiers, nothing about that. But I really do not understand why, at all costs, in a crisis, the government wants to support a much richer and stronger German economy with our billions. And even at the cost of our Republic's debt. Common sense doesn't accept that. In this context, every reasonable person has to logically ask why the government of the ANO and the ČSSD is now doing this business and does not want to have it talked or left for later after the crisis has passed. Why now that people don't have money? People get caught in debt traps, people don't have the rent, their liabilities, companies go bankrupt, people get fired from work. Only in the tourism segment worked until this spring 240 000 citizens of the Czech Republic and those 240 000 citizens, a large part, are without work today. They are guides, they are workers of castles, castles, they are workers of restaurants, in restaurants, in services, their suppliers, producers of traditional Czech glass, carriers and so on. Only this is 240,000 people who would welcome any extra support. None of these people need new war vehicles from Germany right now. Not to mention that some Western countries have reconstructed the old ones just to save money. Just us, the Czech Republic, although people do not have money, businessmen, employees have problems, so the government simply wants to support a much richer German economy, where notabene has much higher average salaries than us. Instead of pouring money into our economy, Czech companies with Czech employees, companies that pay taxes in the Czech Republic, so that the money is directed in our economy, the money from the state budget, and to help start the Czech economy. So, in summary, the SPD MEP proposed dozens of amendments to the various chapters of the budget in the total amount of several tens of billions of crowns in order to move money to decent and needy people. At the same time, we also support the valorisation of pensions, which will increase by an average of CZK 839 next year to almost CZK 15,400. Here I would like to remind you that even the 5 000 CZK received by disabled, old-age pensioners, including widow's pensions and orphan's pensions, have all received pensions thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, because the YES movement does not have a majority here, it needs other votes from other parties to enforce these proposals. So, of course, the members of the SPD voted to support the increase in pensions and, thanks to the members of the SPD, pensioners are also getting raised. Here I would just like to remind you that the SPD movement has been here for a year now, from our pen, a proposal to enact a minimum decent pension at the level of the poverty line, which is less than CZK 15,000 a month, and the poverty line set by the European Statistical Office, so-called. Eurostat, because the government doesn't realize that under the age of 13, 14,000 crowns, it's just impossible to live on. It can't survive. They're disabled, old-age, other pensions. And we propose that, as in many Western countries, people should be entitled to a basic decent pension, but on the condition of years worked. So no adaptable ones. This is different from the designs I hear here from the ČSSD workshop. But we want it to be conditional on working history. So no inadaptable workable person who doesn't work on purpose in the long run would have been entitled and from this amount creditworthy, so of course merit would have remained. That is the right proposal, because I do not understand why all current governments are letting a large part of our citizens live below the poverty line, while there is CZK 50 billion here to support the German economy. I don't get it. He's not really taking his head. And that's what we're complaining about in the budget. It's just poorly structured. The priority is not a decent or working man, a decent and working man; unfortunately, other things are a priority in that budget. It's like everyone likes him. But for us, the SPD has clear priorities - a decent person in the first place. Now... we are convinced that our pensioners obviously deserve to live with dignity. And I have already said about other groups of decent people that, of course, our amendments are directed at them and them, and they are businessmen, employees, they are students, they are small and medium-sized Czech companies that pay taxes in the Czech Republic. So the SPD will not support the government's draft budget by voting, as the government of YES and the ČSSD should stop funding inadaptable, political non-profit organizations. I do not understand why the government is funding political nonprofit organizations promoting the European Union here. I don't understand what it's for. What's it for? What's the point of being in a crisis right now? Well, because the government wants to like Brussels. But that's nonsense. If there's a SPD in the government, we'll cross it out and move it towards decent people, the money. Furthermore, the government should stop funding solar barons, foreign overpriced arms contracts for the military. And once again, I stress that we support the army and the Czech soldiers very much, but here we are talking about a contract. This is something else we're talking about. It can be postponed at least. [[9.50 hours]] It would be a good idea to cut off a botched inclusion in education. Czech special education worked great, and they admired it in the world. That means disabled children had great preparations to enter life there. At the same time, in mainstream schools, talented children could also be very well prepared. And, last but not least, the government should stop sending troops on foreign missions. Afghanistan, for example. This mission costs us about three quarters of a billion crowns a year. And it is not true what the advocates of this policy are saying here that we are fulfilling our obligations because we are in NATO. That is not true, because, for example, France, which is also in NATO, has withdrawn troops from Afghanistan. So it's not because we're in NATO. It is because the government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM simply wants to have soldiers in Afghanistan because they serve interests, unfortunately in this case our soldiers serve foreign interests. And once again, there are countries, members of NATO, who have withdrawn soldiers. So we don't have to be there at all, and we could have saved three quarters of a billion. Of course we do not agree with this either, and again it is the expenditure of the Czech state budget that here in the House of the Government Party with the support of the parties called. The demoblock has been voted, and it is already agreed - I say again, we SPD members have opposed - about sending Czech soldiers into a combat operation of the Islamic tribes - you hear well, the Islamic tribes - in Africa, Mali, Niger and Chad. Only this posting is now costing us 380 million crowns. I really don't understand what the government is doing with the Demoblock parties! That means you sent Czech soldiers into combat operations. Fighting operations of Islamic tribes in the African Mali, Niger and Chad, I prefer to repeat this, in French interest this is, there is a French geopolitical interest, it does not concern us at all, the Czech Republic. And please don't go there and say there's some sort of migration going on. The best way to fight migration is to get out of the European Union and protect our borders and have our own migration and asylum policies, as the UK has at last, that's the guide if someone thinks it right. That means zero tolerance for illegal migration, no promotion of Islamic ideology, no Islamic cover-up in public - all these laws here are from the SPD pen. He's been here for two years. And the other parties are blocking them because they just don't want to deal with it. And they're servile to Brussels policy. So the 380 million crowns you're giving to send Czech soldiers to Africa, even to Central Africa, it's not even North Africa, so we say let's give them to our decent people! They need money now. So here I summarized this essentially on concrete examples of the SPD's criticism of this draft state budget. I say again, we have approached this constructively, we have proposed in this sense what I say, over 20 amendments in billions of crowns, we have dealt with representatives of the government, we have dealt with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, we have dealt with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, but neither of our amendments to the government coalition wants to support it. Neither. So, of course, there is a fundamental contradiction in priorities, in budgetary priorities between the SPD movement and the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD movement. And once again, I will conclude that under these conditions, the SPD will simply not support this state budget. And if the Minister here was talking about a budget provisional - please, yes, the budgetary provisional is a problem for every responsible politician. It's also a problem for the SPD. That is why we are once again offering negotiations to the government, support our amendments. I've described them here right now in public, so everyone can hear what our proposals are about. It's simply a transfer of money to decent people, and it's actually a cut-off of unnecessary spending that doesn't bring decent people to a crisis right now. And let's talk about it, and there doesn't have to be a budget commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u9	Thank you. Mr Miloslava Vostrá, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, will now speak on this issue. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u10	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, allow me to read the legislative technical correction of the amendment under number 6915. It's under number 90 in the chart. The text reads as follows: "The reduction mentioned will also be reflected in the reduction of the cross-cutting indicator of expenditure kept in the information of the EDS/SMVS programme financing system by a total amount of CZK 10 000 000 000." is replaced by the text "The reduction mentioned shall be reflected in the relevant indicators of Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence.". So many legislative technical repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u11	I am now in the debate, so Vice-President Tomio Okamura will replace me for a moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u12	Have a good morning. So now, with priority rights, Vice-President of the House and Chairman of the ODS, Petr Fiala gets the floor. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u13	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, and for the operational takeover of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the draft state budget, according to the Civil Democratic Party, is such that it does not reflect the real needs of the Czech Republic. We do not consider the budget to be good, and therefore, as we have said several times, we will not support the budget either. We believe that now, at this time, the budget cannot be redesigned, it cannot be turned into a good, honest budget that corresponds to what the Czech economy, the Czech Republic, Czech citizens need at this time. The budget could be slightly improved. I'll tell you how soon. But as we know, there's no political will for that here. First, a few words about why we do not consider this state budget to be good, why we do not think it reflects the needs of the Czech Republic, the needs of the Czech economy and the needs of most people. First, people need to be told the truth. 320 billion, it's not just a deficit, it's a debt. It is a $320 billion debt and it is a debt of the state budget, but it is mainly a debt of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And that's what matters. It is about 32,000 crowns per citizen of the Czech Republic per year, including the smallest children. And it is clear that if we continue to do so, even those who are now young children will pay back in the future what this government has now prepared. And we don't think that's responsible in any way. And that's not all. That's not all, I'm afraid. And that's two. Because it's not just 320 billion, the way it's presented for next year. When you look at other proposals, it is actually CZK 820 billion, or more than three quarters of a trillion crowns, planned by the government for 2021, 2022, 2023. That's what we need to realize, too. So if you linked it to the deficit, the debt we have this year, and you put it together, in the next four years, according to the idea that we're all presented here, we would have made a debt of more than one trillion crowns. And that's something that you might recognize is really not good. This is clearly wrong and cannot be done. Thirdly, the draft budget does not reflect, as I said, the real needs of the Czech Republic. Among other things, it's a record debt. That's what the secretary said. At the same time, there are no new massive investments in transport infrastructure, education, or anything that could move the Czech economy. It does not address reforms that the Czech Republic urgently needs, such as retirement, which will not be. The budget does not even clearly count on massive compensation, which will undoubtedly be needed at least in the first quarter of next year. And most importantly, the budget isn't trying to find any reserves for the state's consumption. He's not even pretending to be the sustainability of public finances anymore. Remember to untie budgetary responsibility, remember, we're missing some macroeconomic projections here. [[10.00 hours]] Together, this budget leaves every future government, whatever the government is, public finances in debt, non-perspective and even unsustainable. And as I said in the introduction, that is something that cannot be corrected now, which cannot be corrected by amendments, cannot be redesigned here. The only thing that could still be done is at least partially improve the budget and make it more responsible, which, even though I know the renegade positions of the government coalition, I will ask you once more. The Citizen's Democratic Party Each year presents savings in the state budget, showing specific items where the state could save. And I point out, save so much that the citizens won't know it at all. Save on running the state for unnecessary expenses. Last year we presented savings of approximately CZK 46 billion, in this budget we found savings of more than CZK 80 billion, and we put them in our amendments. What the 80 billion savings we see in the state budget are made up of will be discussed in detail by my colleagues. I'll just give you three examples. According to the Supreme Audit Office, we have vacant offices worth about CZK 9 billion. During the reign of YES and CSSD, there were 16,000 officials. Do you feel that this has made the service of the state much better? We don't have that feeling. I'm not talking about state employees, I'm not talking about teachers, firefighters, policemen, others, and others that the government's about to curse. I'm really talking about officials here, and I'm also talking about vacant, and that's important, vacant seats in the state administration for CZK 9 billion. These are things where you can undoubtedly save and bring important savings in this difficult time. Other - non-investment purchases and related expenditure. The state must save, especially at this time. We propose to cut 30% and save more than 20 billion. These are savings on the operation of the state, not on citizens. The operation of the state. And that's important. And then we have some donating items. Let me give you one example - support for the agri-food complex. That's where we propose to cross out $4 billion. I'm saying it's an example. The ODS has long criticized where these subsidies are going. And our goal is for the titles to be adjusted so that the support doesn't end in big groups, but it got to the small and medium ones, and that's true in all areas. These are examples, really three examples of where we're going in our savings. My colleagues will be more detailed. The list is longer. I've selected three areas here that actually symbolize the three tasks we have. And that's what we do together. And I'm begging you to support these tasks. The one task is that we must finally stop the endless growth of bureaucracy in the Czech Republic. Again, not the increase in the number of teachers or firefighters, the increase in bureaucracy. We need to do something about it. Nothing's happened yet. It's just getting bigger in every direction. And that's just wrong. And now we have a chance to limit it, we have pressure, we need to do it, so let's do it. The other thing is clear, too. It is necessary to save on the consumption of the state. It is simply impossible for the state to continue to increase in this way and spend more and more on its operation. We just can't afford this either. Finally, we need to stop supporting only the big ones at the expense of the small ones. There is a need for greater justice and even here it can be saved. Then, honourable Members, I call on you, since we can no longer really fix the budget, we cannot redo it at this stage, so let us at least partially improve it. Let us improve it by supporting the amendments of the Civic Democratic Party, which are all directed in one direction, and that is to save on the operation of the state, not to save on citizens. Save on the operation of the state and make the state more rational and efficient. I don't think we can be content to say anything here - there's nothing to be saved in this budget with the 320-billion-dollar deficit. We just can't settle for that. It cannot be said that the consumption of the state is ideal, so we will preserve it in these difficult times and increase it even further. We just can't say. Bureaucracy only costs us the inevitable minimum - we can't say that either. It doesn't cost us the inevitable minimum. It's still growing, it's getting bigger, it's still costing more. Let's do something about it. Now's our chance. And we can't say that the big subsidies that don't need them at all, at the expense of small and small, are fair. They're not fair. Let's do something about it. When we say: there is nothing to be saved in this budget, we support bureaucracy at the minimum necessary, the large subsidies are in order, the consumption of the state is ideal, there is nothing to be saved... Is anybody really supposed to believe this? We believe that no one can trust us to believe that these are exactly the things in which the budget can at least be improved, repaired and saved for state consumption. This is the direction behind the proposals of the Civil Democratic Party. I call on you to start saving up for the operation of the state. To start saving money on the state, not on the citizens. On the contrary, to become more responsible. But responsible behaviour and budgetary policy do not offer this budget, which is why the Civil Democratic Party cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u14	The amendments have been delivered to you as House prints 1067/3, and the draft accompanying resolutions have been delivered to you as House press 1067/4. I would remind you that the examination of the draft State Budget Act is governed by Sections 101 to 106 of our Rules of Procedure. The draft law shall not be directed to the guarantee committee for discussion. Before I open the debate, I ask the rapporteur... I'm sorry. The debate is already open because I've been taking over as I go... So now, with priority rights, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will speak, and then Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. And I'm handing over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u15	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I think that for the discussion of a law that journalists in the media world especially like to call the law of the year, the government's participation shows how seriously it is today. [[neither the Prime Minister nor any minister sits in the government bench]] The Prime Minister is absent, he's not here, he doesn't even want to defend the material we have here. He may not be surprised, but at least the various ministers and especially the Prime Minister show how seriously he really means this proposal, at the time in which we are, at the time before us, and it is a very difficult time from an economic point of view. In a way, the government has already broken up and is only going on a flywheel, but that does not mean that we should not pay attention to the proposal, although, of course, the question is to what extent it can be seriously meant when it does not respond to reality at all. The projected deficit of CZK 320 billion, which we have in the proposal, does not count on such a fundamental change in taxes, which will be discussed next week just before Christmas and which should apply from 1 January next year and which will have the impact of another CZK 100 billion if the Senate version passes. This means that we are not discussing at all the reality here today that would result from everything we expect, but it is rather a fairy tale about a budget, as I have already called it at first reading and in previous negotiations repeatedly. And that's still going on. [[10.10 hours]] The draft budget was still prepared at a time when such a strong, massive second wave of coronavirus was not expected, which has huge impacts on the economy, which costs us billions of crowns a day, and which also costs the economic life of a number of companies, businessmen, entrepreneurs and their employees. The government is asking us to support a budget that itself is unable to prepare to fit reality. That tells us more about her abilities than anything else. According to estimates by the Ministry of Finance, the structural deficit will grow to 4.5% of GDP. So the government did not fit into the legal limit of 4 percent of GDP, which was increased this year from the original 1% limit, which we had already criticized very loudly at the time and which, of course, we did not support. The government has completely resigned from budgetary responsibility. Let us just remember the tax package and Mr Babiš's amendment, which de facto completely abolishes the law on budgetary responsibility with its proposal. Moreover, this amendment predicts the absolute unwillingness to rapidly consolidate the structural deficit in the years ahead. According to this amendment, the path to balanced budgets in the Czech Republic will last 12 to 14 years. This is totally unacceptable for the Czech Republic, because we are already facing a serious demographic crisis after 2030. Yes, in nine years' time, we are already facing a major impact on the pension system and the unreformed pension system, which is the result of seven years of the ANO and the ČSSD movement in the government, will bring further huge problems for public budgets as such. And not public budgets, but for citizens, for people, because that, of course, is the impact everyone will feel. Until then, public budgets must be stabilized and pension reform, and all reforms that are ahead of us must not be a promise in a program like this, not a number one priority, which is not really one, but must be implemented, enforced and must work. For this reason, it is not possible to resign from budgetary responsibility either. For the following years 2021, 2022 and 2023, the government planned a debt of CZK 826 billion. The concept of consolidation of public finances is completely absent, the government is asking how to bring it back to a sustainable level, does not deal with it, and leaves concrete measures to the future government. In short, like many times in the past and in this matter, the Flood follows its simple motto after us. That defines her best. Budget deficits are growing all over the world. Yes, even the surrounding states are struggling with epidemics and economic consequences, but the surrounding states, unlike the Czech Republic, are showing efforts to consolidate public budgets. For example, Germany, let's go to the neighbours, this year's deficit is EUR 217.8 billion, but the deficit for the next year has been approved by € 179.8 billion, but since 2022, the German financial plan is only counting on a deficit of EUR 10.2 billion. That's contrary when our approach and the German approach are compared, quite obvious. By 2024 they are planning a deficit reduction of up to EUR 5.2 billion in Germany, i.e. according to the medium-term outlook of the Czech government, the current government in decline, in 2022 the deficit of the state budget could be CZK 286 billion and CZK 252 billion in 2023. At that time, i.e. in 2023, and already in 2022, the Czech Republic, this government, is planning a higher deficit than the Němec are planning, and this is eight times larger countries. We are planning many times more deficits in an eight-fold smaller country than our neighbor. So we are not just comparing numbers, but trying to consolidate public finances. According to experts, the deficit of CZK 320 billion will owe the economy much more than the decline in the economy's performance next year. This is in sharp contrast with the other countries of the European Union, not only mentioned by Germany, which are aware that this year's huge deficits will have to be significantly hampered in the coming year and in the coming years, of course, even more. Not at our place. In my country, the government pretends that something like this is out of the question. Avoiding responsibility is typical of this populist government. But consolidation interventions will have to be tough, and if we don't start doing something about it, then what else are we going to have to do in that time next, which this government probably doesn't want to rule anymore, which is why it leaves it to the next representation, rather than a significant reduction in the scope of public services provided and possibly tax growth. That's what's behind it. It's fair to say this here, but of course the government isn't going to tell you, it's going to keep it a secret, because at this point, rather than consolidating public budgets, it has taken on its consolidation of its electoral preferences. The question is what billions cost one percent of these electoral preferences. How many future generations will this percentage then pay back? The one the current government borrows from and indebts all generations, even those that are now in their diapers. They are rightly concerned about companies and entrepreneurs, who are in danger of having the government look for the resources of the budget directly or indirectly taxing them or restricting the means for developing the business environment. Even already tested and really hard-marked sectors certainly have something to worry about, because the help they're getting now is just a lame band-aid for what they're experiencing and how their incomes are plummeting, their sales. But it is possible that the next steps will be taken, which will indicate them no less and will be linked to the increase in taxes and similar things. I don't want to predict that for the case that we will be in the government together with the other parties. We will certainly look for a way to get budgets under control and consolidate them, not on the revenue side, but especially on the oversized spending side, which can be cut. The tax package, which includes the amendment by Andrej Babiš, relaxing budgetary responsibility, has returned the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies, which will decide on it next week. At this point, therefore, we are approving the budget, which is clearly against the budgetary responsibility law, and I will remind you that the TOP 09 is precisely in the Senate through its first Vice-President Tomáš Czernin's efforts to ensure that the budgetary responsibility does not fall out of that law, so that we should continue to have the whip above us in quotation marks that we need to consolidate budgets and get them under control. Unfortunately, he wasn't admitted. Moreover, the estimate of the Ministry of Finance, according to which the structural deficit will deepen up to 4,5 percent of GDP, expects the regions and municipalities not to manage the deficit. Otherwise, the deepening will be even higher. Again, this needs to be said quite clearly and out loud. This information, too, is essential for our public budgets. And what can be said is that it has been absent for a long time, but in the budget that we are discussing here, it is also, and it is shameful, it is an effort to save in any way. A number of government expenditures raised are non-investmental in nature, increasing the so-called Mandatory, i.e. statutory expenditure, which will entail a higher burden on budgeting in the future, as I have already mentioned. The declared rate of austerity of 5% of the operating costs of the State is completely inadequate and therefore TOP 09 is proposing an amendment that will save the state almost CZK 30 billion, especially at operating costs. In short, it is not possible - it is not possible that households, companies, businessmen, all turn every crown and look at each of their expenses, cut off what is necessary, but the state did not do so, or did absolutely inadequately, only cosmetically. [[10.20 hours]] These cuts, which are often called dramatic by some government MPs, are not really dramatic cuts. Indeed, the 30 billion crowns are only the minimum that can be taken with a light pencil, and a lot of the other proposals that go in this direction also have our support, because we realize that this is exactly the approach to state spending that we need to take very careful action. And that's exactly what we're taking the 30 billion into 64 specific items. We are returning the salaries of civil servants, which have increased by thousands a year in recent years, to the level of the year, which was very, very economically prosperous, in 2018, when the Czech economy was really in good shape and the state budget then ended up in surplus. In the administration, it is essential that salaries reflect the economic situation. Of course, there is no room for salary increases, and as far as wages, i.e. in the private sector, are concerned, of course, that is where everyone has been feeling it for a long time, and next year it will be fully reflected. And there's no way that scissors are even more open between those who pay the bill and those who live out of it, from the taxes of our employers, our employees. We consider capital expenditure to be insufficient. The government is bragging at the mouth of the Minister of Finance that the budget for 2021 brings a year-on-year increase in investment of 40 billion and a total of 187 billion. Kroner said it was the highest investment in history. The claim that this is a year-on-year increase of 40 billion is not exactly accurate. If we take into account the budget for 2020 after the changes, this is an increase of only 10 billion. This year's investments are nominally the highest. However, in the case of netting inflation, there are actually higher investments that took place in 2015. In 2015, the nominal amount of capital investments was 175,7 billion.; if we count forecast inflation for 2020, which is 3.2%, then the value of these investments is 196,4 billion, i.e. by 10 billion. more than the investments planned for 2021. This is a kind of equivalibrist with numbers that the government likes to do, such magic, but it's fair to put things in context. And that's the context I was trying to show you on those numbers. In my view, the lack of attention in the budget is also devoted to culture, namely the promotion of living art. The coronavirus crisis, of course, affects it as one of the sectors very intensely and very fundamentally. I therefore propose that we strengthen the support of living art, namely from the chapter coming from the President of the Republic, the Office of the President of the Republic, with an amount of CZK 18 million, which, of course, is not a dizzying sum, I realize, but I believe that Czech artists will really appreciate every crown in this situation. I suggest we move the amount from President Zeman's chapter because he let himself be heard that artists created their best works when they were hungry. I am not really going to accept and I cannot agree with this reprehensibility of this serious situation of thousands of people in our country. And that is why I propose that these expenses, which are in addition to the indicator from which the President's domestic and foreign journeys are paid, are not going anywhere, so that we put them on living art. This budget item has not even been spent halfway through the last two years, so there is definitely room. Moreover, the President's foreign travels and his apparatus have long been linked back to controversy. With controversy, where he doesn't even care about the government's position, which is the only one who has the opportunity to shape foreign policy. That is why this item can be reduced without any major consequences for the President. There are several places where saving is possible within this item. I suggest that I touch in my essence the rewards, the reduction in the rewards for Chancellor Mynář. So far he has not received security clearance, there is no reason in his work, which is often in the Czech Republic's favour, to support him more, and we have few options as the Chamber of Deputies to correct in any way. One of the few we have is the budget. Even for this year, one important item remains underfunded in the draft budget, and this is the Czech cultural heritage. The current coronavirus situation has hit not only a live culture, which I have already mentioned, but also Czech castles and locks, which are also affected by lost profits from tourism, which is not at the level at which they are accustomed today. According to qualified calculations, it takes about 4 billion crowns each year for castles and castles, our cultural heritage. That is why I propose the National Cultural Treasure and Heritage Programme to increase by 3 billion, which are now missing in the programme. And this change, which I ask you to support, still has a good secondary effect for the whole economy in a given place, in a given area. To support craftsmen, to support those smaller companies, entrepreneurs and tradesmen who could be involved in the realization of investments in these places. And, of course, they also need to encourage and have contracts that they will be able to maintain their business, keep their business. We are presenting a sum of several dozen amendments, and I have presented only the three that I am presenting directly myself. And I will allow myself to take this opportunity to read to them two legislative technical changes concerning the amendments mentioned, because there has been a press error, so I want to correct it. So please let it also be given the record that these are two specific modifications. Firstly, in the amendment under heading 7008, point 1 changes the number of 29 billion. 524 miles. 296 thousand. 251 to specifically 29 billion. 524 miles. 193 thousand. 538. And in the amendment, that is the second amendment, mentioned under 6984, in point 1, the number is changed by 17 million. 820 thousand. 856 to 17 miles. 820 thousand. 865. I will, of course, give this amendment to the rapporteur in writing, because it is clear to me that these amounts cannot be written down and remembered as quickly as possible. Finally, I stress: We cannot support a budget that is flattened, which does not correspond to reality, which disproportionately relaxes budgetary rules on responsibility, which do not seek to reduce expenditure in the situation in which we find ourselves, which wants to deepen the debt of the Czech Republic, its citizens and all the generations that will repay it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u17	Thank you. Mr. President Vít Rakušan will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak much more briefly, and I will leave the specific issues on the amendments to my colleague, Mrs Kovářová, who will also present for us the economic ideas of the budget as it should be for next year. My question is more general. Just what good is the state budget, and how would we explain it to people in the Czech Republic? He's supposed to give us an idea of our future. He's supposed to give us an idea of how to live in this country. He's supposed to give us an idea of what the vision and strategy of this government's future is. He's just supposed to give us an idea of what our future will look like. The budget proposed by the government for next year does not give us such an idea, and, on the contrary, at this stage, it throws us into considerable uncertainty. [[10.30 hours]] The first question is the question of income. We do not know - and the government anticipates what the income scheme will look like next year. We don't know what we're gonna do with the material coming back from the Senate. We don't know how President Miloš Zeman will respond to him. We really, at this point when we're talking about the state budget for next year, we just have no idea what its revenue side is going to look like, and this must, of course, in some fundamental way, at least in the logic of the budget that logic has, affect the spending side. For four years, we have been telling the government from various political parties that the budget must be predictable, the budget must be simple, and the budget must be designed to prepare the country for leaner years to prepare the country for a crisis that can simply fundamentally affect public budgets. And it happened. The crisis has come. And it came in unprecedented dimensions, and the government wasn't ready for it. She wasn't making any reserves, she was eating through the boom, she was eating through the season when we were doing well here, she was cheaply buying voters' votes. Well, what's he doing now? He's in debt, he's in debt to our children, he's probably in debt to our grandchildren, and he's no longer interested in who's gonna pay off the debts and how he's gonna pay off one day. The flatulence of the government in its comments to the business public when the government tells entrepreneurs: You should have created cotton wool, you should have saved money at the time of the boom, you should have been responsible! Now you can't rely on the state to help you out of any of your problems. - But the government didn't do it alone. What example did she set for people? On the contrary, the business public, but often individuals, employees, simply people in the Czech Republic were more responsible than the government behaved. They're making reserves, and now they're spending reserves, and they often get to the edge or beyond what's economically viable for them. We hear from the Prime Minister's statement that we must invest ourselves from the crisis. So let's think about what these investments are. Is this the construction of hungry walls? And I certainly consider such a hungry wall, for example. Danube-Odra-Labe channel. Is that something we should be dealing with at this point? Mentally digest by dealing with a topic that in no way can help people to live quality in the Czech Republic? What are the good investments at this time? Is it infrastructure construction? Did we even understand that we are in a completely different kind of financial crisis than we were before? It is not a crisis if we have crowds of unemployed people that we need to employ quickly now, it is not a financial crisis like in the 1930s. It is a type of crisis where we must help motivate and encourage people to remain active. Incentives, compensation, clear and clear support programs for people in the Czech Republic are the investment, this is the way to invest from the crisis. Not to build senseless buildings, of which experts have huge doubts as well. And how does the government behave when it compensates entrepreneurs for their losses? She's always gnashing her teeth, there's no way we're running two programs, we're talking the secretary into being possible, then after three months after we've been intersecting them. But the government has to realize that this is the investment, and now it's necessary primarily to help, clearly, clearly, structuredly, people, so that they don't lose faith in this state, so that they don't lose their motivation to take care of themselves, too. Other structural investments that will help the future are investment in education, which is not just the salaries of teachers. The debate here is narrowing down to a salary assessment, but the investment in education is a modernization of the education system, which is, of course, digitalization, which can help significantly the whole of our society, but it is also a pension reform, when we will introduce people to how they will live here sometime after 2035 and whether they will be here for pensions at all. The government has completely resigned. Let's look at her programming statement. Now, at the last minute, the Minister is coming up with a version that I'm sure is for discussion, but he's coming up with no support from his coalition partner at the end of his term, maybe just to check out an item. And investment, if they can actually run somewhere, in the local sphere. Cities, municipalities, regions in the Czech Republic are able to invest, and quite quickly. And what do we do? We're taking the money away from them. We will take them with Mr Babiš's amendment from two o'clock in the night when the tax package was approved here. Yes, there was some kind of battle in the Senate, but the battle was basically a little fake from the start. We were just trying to play the game so that the effects weren't so horrible, but the terrible was the original proposal that caused such a stunt in public finances in the Czech Republic. Everything else is just gluing bleeding wounds, but it's definitely not a cure to heal the disease itself. And we also look at the public finance deficit with the idea that municipalities, cities and regions in the Czech Republic will not be indebted, because if they start borrowing much more expensive money than the state, even cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic simply will not have the services, simply they will not have to co-finance, simply they will not have the investments planned in any long-term strategy and are necessary for the municipality or city. And if they start borrowing cities and municipalities - again I say, under much more disadvantageous conditions - then, of course, the debt of public finances is falling even deeper than it looks at first glance from a table view in the Chamber of Deputies. It is also necessary to realize that people who perceive that the state is in debt and are exposed to what their future will look like will start saving. They start saving up for their pensions, they start saving up for not knowing what it's gonna look like with the health system in about ten, twelve, thirteen years. The logical response of people is to reduce consumption and save. And we're getting into a vicious circle from which it comes out really, really hard. The budget has no vision. For years, it has been done in the same way, we will give it, we will take it, but to have determined what the real priorities of the Czech Republic are, and we have seen it when we look into the budget, so that the budget as the future plan offers a way to the future, which is the role of a well-designed budget - it offers, we see nothing there. We see tables, numbers that we can change with some minor amendments, but the government does not even define who it really wants, who it really wants to help, what the key sectors are next year, what the most important thing is. And we're doing all that with a record deficit. So there's a logical structural error somewhere. It just doesn't work and it doesn't fit together. Let's look at Germany's budget. Yes, it's a massive deficit next year, and then it's expecting a significant consolidation of public finances. They have a vision, they have a way. And it may happen that in two years' time, paradoxically, the Czech Republic will have a nominally higher deficit than Germany, which is simply a matter of absolute, but absolutely unprecedented. We're just not ready for the future. And we kind of expected that the government, when it was no longer preparing a vision for the Czech Republic in those past years, and it was just kind of living out of prosperity, that it would wake up in a time of crisis, that it would wake up and pave us with a path that would lead us out of the crisis. What the government has prepared here is simply a repetition of its own mistakes, and this budget and its support simply means contributing to the deepening of the economic crisis in the Czech Republic. And the starosta and independents certainly can't do that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u19	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We'll continue with the priority rights. Mr Rakušan, according to the section of the Pirate Party, is Michal Ferjenčík. [[unintelligible]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If so, Mikuláš. [[Jesus, I'm sorry! I'm really sorry. I remember your name, but...]] Dear colleagues, we as pirát always try to ensure that the laws we approve are in line with reality to match what is going on, so that what is on paper makes sense even in reality. Unfortunately, this budget is not in line with reality. We already know that there is 100 billion there, which the government is about to not collect in the context of the tax package. A hundred billion that could be used to save the failing sectors. A hundred billion that could be used to keep us from having to argue here, whether we can forgive the tradesmen's contributions, or if we can't, if there's money or if there's no money. That's just a huge amount that the budget doesn't count on, even though in a week, the government is going to shut down this giant axe. Nor does the budget account for the effects of the coronavirus crisis at all. The budget doesn't count on any second or imminent third wave at all. There are no dedicated funds to address these financial costs that will come through the coronavirus crisis. It doesn't count on a decrease in income that comes because of it. That's two big problems. At the same time, the government actually wants the budget for one reason. If we approve him here today, it will allow the government to stumble in the way he stumbles now, where every day they approve some other regulation that disproves the previous one, which will change the future again, and every minister interprets it differently and reports another day from when it starts to apply. Well, we're gonna make this crooked way happen until October next year. That's actually the only reason why the debate about today's budget is so monitored, because in fact, we all know here that the individual items, how the individual billions were played in the past, whether a billion or a billion six hundred million social services are added, or something like that, but we all know that today, although of course, it's very important for the whole sector, for the clients of the system, for the citizens, but from the point of view of the state budget, we're at a different level. Here's the 320 billion deficit, 100 billion minus another through the tax package. There will be budget measures in the order of tens of billions. So the budget is really a piece of paper. But what makes it possible. It allows the government of Andrej Babiš to stumble until the election. We think it should be those parties who claim responsibility for the government that will allow this stumbling. We do not believe that if we accepted any reasonable compromise here, that it will be respected, because the last time we dealt with the Minister of Finance about how the Corona crisis budget is to be adjusted, then she took the budget, she used the money for her pre-election gifts. We're glad the elderly get a raise. We think that's right. But it's not right if the government lets people who have worked here for years pay their taxes, and then the money that was meant to help them, they're gonna give someone away in the election fight. We really don't think that's right. And that's how the government behaves. I could put a lot of other cases, I could give examples here, where when it's convenient, the government involves unapproved taxes in the budget, when it's not appropriate, it doesn't. In such a situation, no one can really ask the Pirát to approve the budget. It's completely out of reality, doesn't count on the coronavirus crisis, doesn't count on the tax package, and also allows the government to stumble further. For these reasons, the pirát will not support this budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u21	Thank you, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, once again I apologize for the incorrect mention of the name. And we will continue the debate. Mrs Olga Richterová will now speak in the debate. A colleague of mine, Milan Hnilička, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will follow up on my previous speaker with the fact that in one area the proposed budget is very fundamentally unrealistic, namely in the field of social services. We believe, and perhaps this will also be complemented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, that there are several billion crowns missing in this area. In support of this argument, I will state that we are not alone as pirát, we are not the only ones who submit an amendment to increase precisely this budget heading to increase expenditure in the field of social services. And the reason? In particular, the reform of psychiatric care, in particular the lack of funding from Europe in the following year, and the fact that, in reality, the pressure on this sphere, as a result of the Coronavirus crisis, will be enormous. I have been here in the past to discuss the budget with examples of areas where we can be saved by acting as a state to act quickly and effectively in the birth of problems, at the beginning of difficulties. I will remind you that this is a situation such as an outbreak of some mental illness and the possibility of this rapid intervention to help with housing, the possibility of people not being overly long in those psychiatric facilities, for example, but in normal housing, or when it occurs, unfortunately, it has also grown due to the corona crisis, domestic violence, so that there is a place to go, so that the family has the necessary support, perhaps to cope with the pressure it is for family counseling, family centers to have enough therapeutic space. And again, it's all going to the housing support thing. So these things, too, are hidden under the effective functioning of social services. And effective social services cannot be if every year they fear how much Parliament will fill up on them in May, June, July. I say "dosype" with sadness because it doesn't deserve it. In the first wave and in the second wave, they have demonstrated how they work, how necessary they are for this state, and now, at the moment when we can give greater stability to this segment, if we do not have to fill in, I ask you, Madam Secretary of Finance, to reconsider whether, given the failure to finance those follow-up services in the necessary reform of the psychiatric care, in the development of mental health centres, in an area that saves us billions elsewhere, namely in the field of hospitalization, in the area of health only, it would not really make sense to increase the two billion of our proposed social services sector by us. Let me recap. In the past, I have talked about how we are wasting what we have as a state of opportunity, how unbound support for families in danger works, children who grow up in a not-quite-easy environment, and then suddenly at 18 it happens that they lose any support and actually remain in a very risky situation without savings, without family background, de facto on the street. This has not yet been resolved by your government, and the money I am talking about will help to ensure that support services in these situations can be managed at least for the next year with greater certainty. Once again, I appeal that you consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u23	Thank you, Mrs Olza Richterová. Now, Mr Milan Hnilička, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly comment on the amendments - first, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, registered under number 7015, which concerns the reduction of sport subsidies in the indicator Development and promotion of sport by 150 million in order to reduce the subsidies to sports associations, on the ground that "some of the sports associations cannot be considered to be too credible institutions'. I would just like to say here that sport is historically deeply underfunded and has problems like other areas. However, this year under the baton of the National Sports Agency, we have set up a new method of financing, the programmes are already published. This also applies to the programme for associations specifically in this case, and it needs to be realised that the unions may play the most important role in the areas of sport, organised sport in the Czech Republic. They're in charge of development, organizing competitions. Basically, the success of sport and individual sectors depends on how each association has its own system set up. And this, of course, is also due to public funding from the central institution, such as the National Sports Agency at present. [[10.50 hours]] We processed several analyses before we announced the program Call for Sports Unions. We communicated, we requested their activities in advance, so the criteria are set very specifically and very transparently, and we even managed to respond flexibly to the situation in sport, which is the most widespread in our country, and that is the football that resonates in society. As part of the Organization of Sport programme, we will require the Football Association of the Czech Republic to demonstrate the democratic principles of elections to regional or regional associations, which we want to supervise, while at the same time assessing the setting of the Anti-Corruption Program of the Football Association. Therefore, we are really trying to respond to the current situation in sport. And the unions play a really important role in the development of sports, training coaches and so on, so they cannot be overlooked and cannot be reduced by budget. I would therefore ask the House not to support this amendment. I will move freely on to the second amendment - colleagues Václav Klaus, registered under No. 6987, which writes that Trikolóra promotes public spending for children's camps and non-commercial sports activities, but refuses to subsidize a professional sport that can earn its own money from its existence. Here I would like to say that the National Sports Agency does not support professional sport, but only amateur sports. It's from the Sports Support Act. We are also specifically focusing on the exact area mentioned by Mr Klaus here, and this is direct funding for small clubs, amateur clubs. This year, we have loosened up the conditions in a program called My Club. That's direct funding for clubs. I am so glad that we signed up for a thousand clubs there more than last year, so we are financing 7 150 clubs directly. We have created for this amateur sport as well as the Operation and Maintenance program, which was required after communication with the sports environment, where we allocated another 500 million, which is far from saturated with all the needs of the sports environment within operation and maintenance, but it is money financed directly where there are children's compartments. We deleted the condition that they must have eight children so that youth groups under 23 could be financed. This also increased the number of applicants. So we went to meet them. I am very glad because in our travels around the Republic we have found that there are many small sections in small villages that do not meet the conditions of 12 children, whether it be table tennis, bowling, and we want to support the smallest ones directly. Therefore, I would ask the House - the sport is really underfunded, deeply underfunded. Specifically, the movement of children is important at this time, and we are trying to fight to ensure that the measures for sport are as good as possible, and so I am asking the House not to support these amendments, and vice versa, if there is an option, to continue to increase in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u25	I thank Mr Milan Hnilička. Now the factual comment by Mikuláš Ferjenčík, will be prepared by Věra Kovářová, then Jan Bartošek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just going to try very briefly to respond to a colleague of Hnilička. My proposal is part of some comprehensive economic package from the Pirates, which reduces the budget spending by approximately CZK 8 billion. That's a pretty small amount of it. However, I will comment on the criticism. Huge money has been poured into sport in this government. And I don't think anyone in the House is questioning this any more strongly, but the increase is simply gigantic that it may have doubled more than that, funding sport over the last few years. So that's one aspect that we've taken into account in the situation of a total economic downturn. And then what really played an extreme role for us was this personal mistrust that we feel about some of the unions that will eventually distribute the money. It's just people like Berbr, Pelta, and other gallows have a huge impact on where the money goes. Everyone in those counties is afraid of them, they know that if they make enemies of these people, they're gonna be cut off by the referee. That's just how football works. I'm a big fan of football. My colleagues know I play alone. Celebration of Choltice B, this is my club. Anyway, I just can't agree to pour any more money on those scribblers until we can make things right. And the order isn't there. The order isn't there, and you're dumping millions more, and I just don't agree with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Juránek's point of view. Colleague Kovářová will hold. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u28	Mr President, I will turn to the previous speaker Ferjenčík here by means of you. I want to tell him he's out of his mind. That's why the sports agency was created, because of these exact things. That's why I fought for the agency. And the fact that you didn't understand, that's exactly your fault. Because that's what you're talking about with the scribblers, taking the opportunity to split the money out of their hands. In addition, look at all the programs that the sports agency is actually planning, which only works now because it has taken over covid, otherwise it should not have started working until 1 January. But at this point, I can say that organizations are very satisfied with the approach that is there and explaining how things are. The record itself has come to be quite clear. The money goes exactly according to what the birth number is, just like the one he's practicing. And I dare say this attacking the National Sports Agency is not appropriate at all. And the exact things you're talking about, the agency's avoiding them, and you want to take 150 million crowns from that agency. I think this is completely inappropriate. I am on the side of my colleague, Mr Hnilička, and I just want to say that if you say something like that, please tell this in particular, to the whole sports environment that welcomes this matter in its vast majority. Really take this matter seriously. And I'm not gonna support the 150 million transfers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u29	I thank Mr Juránek for his time on the point of fact. Now the factual comment made by Jan Birke, then Mikuláš Ferjenčík, also with a factual comment. Colleague Kovářová is on hold. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I'm not gonna say where I'm kicking or what I'm playing for, that's not important. But I wouldn't want to stand up for myself here, but I just want to set things straight. My previous speaker, my colleague Ferjenčík through you, so either you have proof, then present it or be silent. It's just this flat-out thing, it's all wrong for you to steal. We hear that all the time, and now you're using it here. First of all. Two. [[Ambassador Ferjenčík speaks from the bench.]] You just said it a moment ago that the Pelt are there, and I don't know, some of them are even in custody if I'm not mistaken, even the others - now I can't remember the person. [[Voice from the O.R.]] Berber - exactly, thank you. What I'm saying is, because of what you're saying, when the money goes down, they lose the money and the communities that are waiting for the investment programs. And I thank Milan Hnilička by your means, Mr President, that at the worst time, at the time of the covid, when he took it from the Ministry of Education, Milan and his team did it, through you, and even prepared investment programs, that is, before the Ministry of Education. So, Milan, thank you, through you, and keep going like this, because that's the way the agency's supposed to do it. Thank you. And this is how it's supposed to work. And not as you say. And I just don't understand your vision of the world, Mr. Ferjenčík, but that's nothing new. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík with a factual remark and Milan Hnilička then also with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u32	Thank you. I think that this may not be entirely part of the state budget, and I have only responded to the reservations on my amendment. So I'm just saying, this is gonna be my last appearance on this thing. Anyway, I wanted to respond to my colleague, Juránek. I wasn't talking about the sports agency at all, I was talking about the sports unions. We want to cut down on the amount of money that spills into the sports unions. That's the whole point of our proposal. I didn't criticize the sports agency in any way, so I guess you misinterpreted my contribution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Milan Hnilička, then Josef Bělica. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u34	I am very pleased, thank you colleagues for their comments. But I would like to speak through the President to Mr Ferjenčík. We've included a lot of processes in this agency from your instigations as the Pirate Party. We have accepted some of your remarks when creating the law, see for example an electronic register. We've completely cleaned the black souls out of sport, we've taken the rap sheet in the form we took it in, and today it's fully digitized and linked to funding my club, which are the smallest clubs, and where our kids are playing sports. I don't know what you still don't like about sports. I mean, we're in the footsteps that you've agreed to, you wanted to, and we feel the same way. Investment programs are written completely and politically for all municipalities, it is especially for sport, so I don't know what you still miss about the sport. Well, according to the concept of sport 2016 to 2025, we would like to get one percent of the state budget in the economic part. Today is a difficult time, we all perceive it, but sport is very important and I will be glad if even municipalities and regions think about not reducing, if it is not necessary, budgets for sport, because children are currently closed at home for three quarters of a year and receive such habits that could just really regret us in the future. And we're talking here about you needing to cut the union budget at all costs. Well, without the unions, there wouldn't be any competitions. And they can redistribute money today, but the funding is already set in a completely different way. We have a large part of the funding set up directly and the unions educate coaches, take care of representation. I'm happy to invite you to our agency so I don't have to listen to any more that it's some sort of newsstand for me, which I'm tired of, because we've been working on this really long enough with sports organizations, and I'm happy to introduce you to all the transparent processes so we don't have to argue here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u35	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now the factual comment by Josef Bělica and Věra Kovářová will be next. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u36	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond a little, because there has been a lot of work done in this field of sport during this parliamentary term. I'd like to thank Milan Hnilička, because when the National Sports Agency Act was passed here, it wasn't easy, there were arguments about how it might not work, and it worked. Milan proved he's doing well with the agency. And most importantly, Mr Ferjenčík, the funds that this government has put into those sports unions for investment in the infrastructure of sports, which has been neglected for a long time, are very substantial. And the way projects are set up through the National Sports Agency, that's really great. So I would just like to tell you that not everyone is playing Xbox and that not only does online sport exist, there are even sports disciplines where you will sweat, Mr. MP, and for them you need infrastructure and sports facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now Věra Kovářová, with her performance, will prepare Jan Bartošek. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me to express myself on behalf of the club -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u39	Madame, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I know the emotional situation has increased here after the gunfight in those factual notes, but I think that colleagues who continue to discuss the sports agency can transfer the discussion to the foyer. Calm down, please! Madame Věra Kovářová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u40	Okay, well, thank you again for setting things straight, and I hope that my colleagues with interest - including the Minister - will hear my opinion on the draft state budget. I think the government has chosen a clear path this time. The password is - the draft state budget takes the form of a flood after us. And as I've already noted, so far, it's just drizzling. This means that the deficit will only be, in quotation marks, 320 billion. But the main tide, the major cloud storm, is yet to come, in the form of a tax package that will jamm an axe of more than 100 billion crowns. And without the tax package, the draft of this state budget with a deficit of 320 billion is just an empty container, even with a nice hole in the bottom. We have often heard from the Minister that it is not possible to include the tax package in the draft state budget because it has not yet undergone a legislative process. But it should be recalled that last year was different. The draft laws, which meant an increase in revenue and were not approved in the House, were included in the state budget. There is such a law in this year's proposal. The draft state budget envisages digital tax revenue. And as far as I know, this law has not yet been passed in the House. So you have to wonder what it's like. If revenue increases, this can be included in the draft state budget, even if it has not been approved. When it comes to income cuts, it is the other way around. Let me mention a few of the priorities that the government gives for the draft state budget. And that and some of that we must agree with, and that is an increased expenditure for health care. And we are all aware that health care and its quality will play a very important role in the following year, and the priority is rightly there. Another priority of the government is to increase pensions, yes, we also agree there, because it is an increase and valorisation according to a valid bill. Then we have an increase in teachers' salaries. In the beginning, you said that there is a need to increase the salaries of teachers, because of the need to have quality teachers, well-paid teachers and teachers who will benefit our pupils and therefore our future. Another priority for the government is investment. We must also agree there, yes, investment must be a priority. The question is how much investment is increasing. Madam Secretary presents 40 billion, but according to the proposal, it's about 12 billion. But what we cannot agree with and what we are very sorry about is that these investments are based only on government projects, on state projects, not on regional ones. National capital expenditure recorded, as stated in the Ministry of Finance's materials, a decline of CZK 13.4 billion, due to the fact that investments in regions, i.e. grant titles to regions, municipalities were strengthened already this year and that municipalities and regions had already received enough money. But I say, that is a big mistake, because municipalities and regions invest tens of billions of crowns each year, and that also means that they give work to a whole range of small and medium-sized companies. Therefore, we regret that the Minister did not take the step she took this year and do not support investment in the regions, that is, in the regions and in the municipalities and cities. We could sum up those priorities that we can agree with. But what we cannot agree with is that we lack priorities that would lead to our state's competitiveness. Priorities that could just ensure increased incomes and minimize the huge blackouts that are likely to be ahead of us next year. [[11.10 hours]] It is true that we need a road and highway network, we also need to build railways and rail infrastructure, but what we also need to build is digital infrastructure. Without this, our industry will not have higher added value and there we also lack support in the direction of companies that would ensure the production of products with higher added value. Unfortunately, high-speed Internet, or at least internet coverage, if it is not in our Republic and if there is insufficient civic amenities in those territories, companies will not be interested in investing in such fields as those which bring higher value added products. The government states in its programming statement that it wants the availability of high-speed internet everywhere. Unfortunately, the draft state budget doesn't seem to count on it. However, what is envisaged - and this is Mr Babiš's proposal, which will come to us on 22 December - is to disband the rules of budgetary responsibility. It is no longer one percent, not four percent are proposed, but six percent of GDP is already proposed. I don't think this kind of release is gonna bring anything to anybody. It is also a big mistake that the government is wasting its income at a time of crisis, not only in the form of abolishing the real estate acquisition tax. Of course, everyone would agree and it was the right decision, but it is one of those cases where the government clearly cuts its revenue. And not only in this case, but the example of abolishing a supergross wage and the effects and decline in income of almost 80 to 90 billion will be clear evidence of this. What are we missing, too? We lack investment in prevention of health care, modernization of education or protection of the landscape. There's one thing we're missing, too. And now, let me introduce one of the amendments concerning compensation for the loss of revenue in public transport for the regions of CZK 1.3 billion. The regions were advised not to reduce the number of connections so that people would not ride in crowded connections. At the same time, sales outages are in the order of hundreds of millions for the regions. For example, the Central Bohemia Region calculates these blackouts of CZK 600 million. I therefore beg you, in order to maintain sufficient funds for public transport in our regions, to support this amendment. And what we also lack in the draft state budget is that funds for active employment policy are being reduced. Yes, in the past period, the funds seemed to be high. But it was because unemployment was almost zero when I simplifyed it. But the situation is changing rapidly. According to the Ministry of Finance, unemployment is estimated to rise to 4.5 percent next year. On the other hand, for the active employment policy under this heading, the reduction is one billion crowns. It will be important to have enough funds to retrain, to do community service. That is why I am asking you to support our proposal. We're transferring half a billion crowns there. Furthermore, let me ask you to support the amendment, which adds CZK 20 million to the food banks, in the context of the crisis that is likely to take place in the following year. Indeed, it is a drop in the state budget, but it is very important for food banks and their clients. You all know that food banks had supply problems, there was an absolute shortage of food. You all know that the number of those using food bank aid is rising, but the costs of running food banks are also rising significantly in connection with this. The number of tonnes that have been allocated to the needs shall be increased. The number of employees, part-timers, needs to be increased. Of course, an increase in minimum wage also plays a great influence. It is a thing that will help a number of needs, and the amount is actually relatively small. I hope you will have an understanding of this amendment and the Minister, too, because, as he says, his heart is in the right place. Of course this year we also add to the sights as every year. President Faltýnek, through the President, smiles so much, but she is not that funny. And that is because a number of cultural monuments are in a state of emergency. And it's clear, and we already know how it works from that history, that if you fix a roof of some monument, then you can continue to repair it for, like, ten years, but once you don't fix the roof, the monument is destroyed. Therefore, please support the amendment, which transfers CZK 100 and CZK 50 million respectively to the Ministry of Culture's emergency fund for the repair of cultural monuments. Then, of course, there's this little thing, but no less important. Next year we will celebrate, or remember, the tragic death of svatý Ludmila, 1100 years old. And there's going to be a national pilgrimage. I therefore ask you, Madam Secretary, whether it would be possible - yes, as the Minister says, he has a heart on his hands - whether it would be possible to support because this concerns a very important cultural event, it concerns not only Tetín, but also the whole Czech Republic, to support an amendment that will ensure the financing of this pilgrimage of CZK five million. Of course, then, there are still a few amendments by President Rakušan concerning the maintenance of the drug policy programme. It also transfers funds to maintain the anti-corruption prevention programme, as well as to support families of persons in prison. So many of our amendments. I firmly believe that at least the food banks and Saint Ludmila will be so on your mind that you will support at least these two amendments. Finally, let me say - the Minister has stated that the draft state budget is a kind of lighthouse that will shine on better times. I just have to say that this lighthouse, Madam Secretary, is going to light up a little bit with this draft state budget, but you're going to turn it off. And the mayor and independent club isn't gonna shine on you. So I'm saying we're not going to support the draft state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Jan Bartošek. And I have no further application for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. When the state budget is discussed, the Chamber of Deputies is always full of tension if the budget is approved and what priorities the government defines for next year. Today we find ourselves in a situation where it looks more like a funeral here, because as I read the surrounding situation, I don't really know if the government has enough power to enforce this state budget for next year. If this fails, it will be a clear demonstration that this government is weak. And it will clearly bind to the chaos that follows the measures surrounding the coronation crisis. With the government not being able to sufficiently promote its programme, its priorities and manage it properly. We're talking about a budget that we already know is dead. It is not true and does not reflect the reality of 2021. One of the things that lies here, of course, is the creation of this budget and the preparation itself. If the budget is planning to increase 3.9 percent of GDP at present and the Czech National Bank estimates GDP growth next year only 1.7 percent, I am currently asking what is true. Because if the Czech National Bank's GDP growth forecast is met, we now know that there are 50 to 60 billion missing in the budget. It might seem that this is merely the responsibility of the government. But it's not. Because if this public outage actually manifests itself, it will have a secondary impact, and very devastating, on the budgets of municipalities and regions within which it will be reflected. We are trying to come up with proposals that are trying to address this budget, but he is essentially unsolvable, because we are about to redo this budget very soon. And the government knows that, and yet, regardless of how it reacts and takes into account reality, it progresses in a state of error, pushing material into the House, which it knows only needs to be approved, but it absolutely does not match what reality is. Let me at least say briefly what priorities the KDU-ČSL has shown in the next year's budget. These are things that correspond to the programme priorities that we would like to take into account within the budget, and I ask you to support these amendments if necessary. As a matter of fact, we see underfinancing social services. We have tabled three amendments in a total of 2 billion, when we see it as absolutely essential to finance the reform of psychiatric care. We also see that social services will face a lack of money because of the failure of individual projects. In the same way, we see it as absolutely crucial for the financing of wage losses in social services. Sooner or later, whether the government likes it or not, it will be exposed to this issue to address the situation in social services. What we see as absolutely crucial to supporting the economy is the promotion of the construction of municipal flats. This government takes half a billion in the budget and reduces this budget. On the contrary, we are proposing that the construction chapter of municipal flats should increase by 5 billion, because we believe that it will help local companies, it will help the economy, it will help crafts, tradesmen. But above all, it will help people, because municipalities will be able to build apartments that, for economically affordable rent, which is lower than commercial, will help people to live. We also think of minorities when we come up with a proposal that is really marginal about the state budget context, and that is 5 million to support minorities. For example, we can talk about a minority of Polák in Silesia that could be supported in terms of their printed matter and cultural events. We also come up with an amendment to 300 million for volunteer firefighters because they often intervened in the covid crisis and needed protective equipment, suits and masks. And we see it as the right voluntary firefighters to compensate for these costs. This government also forgot about small winemakers, for whom this situation could almost be liquidated. For this reason, we come up with an amendment of 200 million to compensate for the decline in sales for these winemakers, because many of them are affected by the coronation crisis, they cannot sell. And what we really don't want this little winery in Moravia to go away. We need to support them. And the last thing we want to do is help the municipalities. We want to strengthen the chapter on land adjustments by 100 million, because we want to help municipalities if they want to build sewerage, sewage treatment plants and the like. So there'll be landscaping. And last, and yet I think the very important point is that we want to give $100 million to help Armenia. Armenia is a war - affected country. Many civilians have been forced to move out and Armenia and its inhabitants are facing a difficult winter season. I believe that if we are to be solidarity, now is the time. We can help Armenia and its people at a time when they are being tested by war. And 100 million, I believe, is the amount that the Czech Republic can afford to help Armenia. The budget appears and is drawn up as if this government did not want to continue next year. We'll see, I'll wait for the vote on the budget as a whole. But if the government throws this country into the budget provisional by not being able to approve the budget, that means the only thing - it means further punishing the municipalities and regions in their budgets. And it will be the step of this government, this government, that will damage the budgets of municipalities and regions. And it will be the next step against the governments of this country. The government's been squabbling with the Communist Party for three months, whether or not they're gonna vote. And in all this time, the government has done absolutely nothing to maintain stability in this country. If the state budget is not approved, it will be the next step into the chaos of this government, regardless of the conditions surrounding the coronation, the disadvantage of small entrepreneurs, the late payment of compensation and the rules that are changing, which neither people nor government members understand slowly. If the budget is not approved, it is the next step towards the chaos that will follow this government. It's a bad government, and this country needs change. He needs another government, he needs another prime minister, he needs a government that will restore people's trust that the government can take care of its people. That it can provide stability for the country. For KDU-ČSL I say that we will promote a government that is predictable and will help people and companies in need. Not the government of chaos, which is currently in power. This is a bad government that probably cannot even push through the budget we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u43	That was Mr. Jan Bartošek. Before I give the floor to Mr Jan Skopečka, with a factual remark from the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Have a good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I thought it was necessary to respond to Mrs Kovářová's speech. I would like to respond to one quite specific thing. In that speech there was a reminder of the amendment, which was made in connection with the rather significant anniversary that awaits us next year, the 150th anniversary of Ludmila, the princess. And it was said that the House would be asked to exceptionally approve yet, I suspect, 4.5 million for Ludmila's anniversary. So I would like to inform the House that, of course, we have acted over the course of the year, even more times, if I recall it, with the organizers and I know well how the preparations are going, also in conditions that are not quite easy for the next year. So we were asked by the Ministry for the same amount of CZK 4.5-5 million. We agreed that the organizers turned to the State Department (?), they became part of a regular procedure, because that's the only way we can distribute subsidies. And at this point, I can inform the House that I see no obstacle to why we wouldn't grant it to Ludmila on this anniversary, actually, I can guarantee it here. So the sum we're talking about here, the one from the Ministry of Culture is going on this anniversary. So I just have to tell you, from my point of view, that's why I might not support it. Not that I have anything against the anniversary, which I think is really remarkable in terms of our history. On the other hand, when we agreed with the organizers -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u45	Minister, the time has ended for your point of order. You could have applied differently, but now I can't do anything but end your speech. [[Minister Zaoralek wanted to continue.]] Minister, we really must respect a little of the Rules of Procedure. And now, therefore, Mr Jan Skopeček, the Minister then reports with priority rights. All right. [[Mr Skopeček prefers Minister Zaoralek.]] All right, co-worker Skopeček left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u46	I am very grateful to my colleague, Skopečka, because I made a mistake, yes, I appreciate that very much. I'd just finish it, then. I would like to say, in general, that there are more amendments. And I wanted to tell the House one thing for culture. Yes, it is true that sometimes I get angry, even sometimes in government, because culture is more limited than I imagined. There are often heated disputes about this. On the other hand, I have to point out here that when we talk about budget and money today, there are very fair relationships between culture and the Ministry of Finance all year round. Even now, I'd like to inform you to know that we're actually negotiating a billion this week to expand the COVID - Culture program, which means we're already trying to create the conditions for the program to continue. And even to some extent in an enlarged form, because we're negotiating that there's audiovision, that there's artists there. So we're also responding to what's happening now and in relation to how the last few days are going. We're going to change the terms for which this is going to be awarded, because today those who do business in the field of culture won't be able to show any more losses because they can't plan actions. That means it's all a subject of negotiation that's going on. Repeat, that's another billion. The Minister and I talked about the fact that even though I got 300 million in this budget for regional theatres and orchestras, we have already agreed that this amount will have to be extended. Unfortunately, in terms of how the situation is developing, it seems that it needs to be strengthened. This means that even here, the amendment, we have agreed that it has meaning by next year. So as for the money in culture, I guess no one ever says he's had enough, but on the other hand, I have to say fair and square that he's been quite very correct all year, and that's how we argue for next year. So this is how I go about the amendments, and here's the deal with the Ministry of Finance that makes sense to me, because I know that the Treasury is going to do what we agree in gentleman terms. That's just the situation, and I can't give any testimony here other than this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u47	I thank the Minister of Culture, Mr Jan Skopeček, for the last time entered into the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u48	Good morning. I'm telling the Minister here in a joke that I also hope he'll applaud me after my contribution, but I'm not quite sure. I'm not gonna be doing long, a few notes. The debate on the budget, my criticism of the budget, I took first but second reading as well. In conclusion, I would like to ask Members from other political clubs to support the amendment proposed by the Civil Democratic Party. The amendment means de facto savings of almost CZK 81 billion. Although it is no longer possible to move the revenue and expenditure side of the state budget at third reading, we went the way that we leave individual savings in the chapter of the state debt, and there, if not used, they can serve to finance and operate the state debt even in the coming years. We will not support the budget because we consider it desperately bad, both in its structure and in its deficit level, but also in the fact that it was de facto built on water, it does not contain tax changes that are likely to apply from next year. The Ministry of Finance has not done, as it has always been, a regular macroeconomic prediction, and today we know that we will approve the state budget, which will have little to do with reality, and that it will have to be adjusted in the course of the year. So our amendment does not have the ambition to make an imperfect budget perfect, in the state budget in which it was presented, in a desperate state, of course, cannot be done, but it is a kind of contribution in the budgetary responsibility of the civil democrats, which we have nevertheless demonstrated in recent years, when we have been saving at the level of the proposed deficit, and we have shown to the government and citizens of the Czech Republic that in recent years, in times before Corona, in years when we had relatively decent economic growth, it was simply possible to manage a balanced budget. I will just remind you that from 2013 to 2019 thanks to economic growth, higher collections, accumulated over these years 2013 to 2019, amounted to CZK 400 billion. In addition, 400 billion crowns had existing coalitions in these years to redistribute, and this is precisely the amount that was to be used to make reserves in recent years, and in the time of today's corona crisis, which, of course, has an impact on the economy and the impact on public finances, we have been able to move in a much more welcoming space, and those budget debates and the deficit did not have to be so high and we did not have to indebt so much and so quickly future generations of the Czech Republic. It must also be said that public finances and within them the state budget are long-term ill in the Czech Republic. And the current government has only deepened the poor health of public finances in recent years. It is also necessary to acknowledge, and the Minister may also agree that, by operating savings alone, public finances cannot be healed in such a way that they are sustainable in the long term and that we do not expose future generations to the risk that they will not be needed for their pensions or basic public goods. The problem of public finances, of course, is on the spending side, I talked about the revenue, it lives quite well, and the annual tax collection increases have been really significant in recent years. There have been years when the government has won over 100 billion crowns. Unfortunately, none of this has been spared, and the spending side of the budget has de facto gone off the grid for this government. And we will not chain the spending side back with that chain when we do not reform the pension system and we will not make changes in the financing of health care, which will mean that health funding will also be sustainable in the long term. [[11.40 hours]] Both things, both the unsustainable pension system and the unsustainable financing of the health system in the long term are, of course, linked to the demographic trend in the Czech Republic, with the ageing, with the pension reform for more and more pensioners earning increasingly less economically active people. In the health system, of course, the older the generation, the obvious that the health system will be burdened more. But also the technological development that we see in health care in pharmacy means both better and more effective treatments and medicines, but it also means dramatically greater costs for the health system. And if we do not solve this, we will both deepen the public finances' illness, get its imbalance into ever greater problems, and even if we do not admit it, we will agree that we will not have such technologies and resources in the Czech Republic in health care, which will correspond to current top research results in the health sector. When I talk about the need for pension reform to bring public finances into a sustainable form, I do not mean what Minister Maláčová presented a few days ago, who introduced a few partial changes in the pension system without coming up with how to finance these changes. Most changes, partial changes, parametric changes to the existing pension system with which the Minister has come, de facto deepens the unsustainable financing of pensions, because they mean outages or more costs of the pension system if they were adopted in the way that Minister Maláčová presented them. And Mrs Maláčová didn't come up with a crown of resources that she would like to spend her ideas on changing the pension system, what she would like to replace them with, what she would like to compensate for, what she would like to pay for. Eternal talk about taxing capital drains or money for a pension system will bring us the taxation of technology companies is simply thoughts from a completely different universe that have nothing to do with reality. As far as the taxation of technology companies in the world, in the European Union, within the OECD is concerned, there are disputes and a very complex search for ways in which Europe and developed countries would act together on the taxation of technology companies that make money in markets where taxes are not paid and profits are relatively high. However, the agreement has not yet been made on this, and the way to tax technology companies is really very long, and it is also a question for tax experts, whether these technology companies can be taxed at all, whether they can actually make these technology companies pay taxes even in a place where they have no registered office, and the question is whether they will not find ways to avoid it, even if the agreement on the taxation of technology companies is. So Mrs Maláčová speaks in a dream, talks about some positive and potential budget revenues, which are simply even more on the water than the draft budget presented by the Minister today. In this sense, when the Minister comes in quotes with reform, which will deepen the pension system deficit even further and make it unfinanceable even faster, there is, of course, no reform to be talked about. This is anti-reform, this is the way to even faster problems with the unsustainable pension system and, by extension, public finances as a whole, because without pension reform, we simply will not heal public finances in the long term. It is a failure, of course, of social democracy, which controls many years of MPSV, but it is a failure of the whole coalition. This coalition has been leading this country for seven years and has done two things in pensions. First of all, abolishing Nečasův's hated pension reform, which brought about criticism and not having to agree with it, brought other resources into the pension system and meant extending its sustainability. And the second thing that this government has done is... The first thing is to abolish Nečasův' reform, and the second step in pensions is to come up with an anti-reform that de facto deepens the pension system's problems and therefore public finances. In seven years, quite decent seven years, when we had very above average economic growth, and thus the opportunity in the economic sense was very suitable for this structural change, so we spent those years spending money, the 400 billion crowns, on unnecessary things. When you look at the way capital spending is going, after long years, at least what Nečasův' government invested in the time of the crisis. And once again, this government ruled before the coronavirus for years at a time of economic growth, when it could have been more easily realized. As an economist, I think it is necessary to accept to heal public finances, something called the spending rule that would limit in future years, whatever a government consisting of any political party is sitting here, the only way in which the spending party, as it has so far been, is not cut off from the chain, so that it works, so that we adopt and supplement the financial institute with an expenditure rule that would simply limit the government's appetites before the elections, and we have a lot of them in that political cycle - regional, municipal, House - so that a rule is adopted that would limit expenditure growth, for example, depending on how inflation is going to evolve, so that expenditure growth can be needed in terms of inflation minus one percent. This would mean that, in the long run, we would have reached balanced public finances. It is also possible to return to the game something that has been discussed here, I think, sometime at the beginning of this millennium, that is to make the adoption of a deficit budget at times of growth conditional on some greater qualified majority of the Chamber of Deputies than merely the simple majority. In my opinion, this is the only way to prevent any political representation from wanting to buy its voters before the elections, send them pre-election gifts. In short, we need to limit our policymen's scope to spend complicated taxpayers' money, which we, or some politicians, very much like and very headlessly spend. It's spent when you decide on someone else's money that someone else has made, and you decide on things that you don't have a relationship to, and you decide on spending for all sorts of purposes and you don't decide, you don't pay it out of your own, so of course you spend it on white. And who wouldn't take the opportunity? So this is my final contribution to the subject of the budget and the topic of the recovery of public finances. First of all, we won't heal them without pension reform. Unfortunately, this government will not bring it, and it is its failure. And in the long run, we will not balance the budget and public finances if we do not put a rule in the financial constitution that would limit spending to grow according to the political cycle and how elections come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u49	That was MP Jan Skopeček. Now I have two applications. One is electronic, i.e. Václav Klaus, and then Zdeněk Ondráček is reporting from the site. Now, then, Mr Václav Klaus. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, a point of fact, my colleague Valachová has priority. I'm sorry. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is clear that I must respond to Mr Skopeček's previous speaker. The pension reform is prepared and prepared on the basis of the Commission's output for Fair Pensions, led by the respected economist Mrs Nerudová. This reform increases pensions fairly and costs 5 billion per year according to the proposal. And that's what bothers you. That's remarkable! It does not bother you that, for what thanks to the Civil Democratic Party we will lose in just two years of the agreed tax package, we would pay the seniors up to 16 years in advance, secure money for early retirement for 38 years, and ensure, for example, the transfer of pensions to the zero and the first pillar, including the introduction of a basic pension of CZK 10,000 for all 22 years. So it's remarkable that it bothers you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, my colleague Skopeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u52	I will respond to my colleague through the President. My colleague, read what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has created. Please don't put it on any committee, our representatives went there, and they will certainly tell you that they would not sign up for such reform, or that it contains some partial modifications that we could agree with, but that as a whole it cannot be regarded as reform. Because the reform that deepens the problem of the existing pension system in the sense that it brings forward proposals that will cost more and does not bring resources to them and de facto throws the generation of 30 today overboard even faster than if we did nothing and did not accept any change, it really cannot be described as reform. It's an anti-reform, it's an increase in problems. This is really even faster and more serious throwing a generation of 30s overboard. You had seven years to prepare reform. You have prepared paragrafo versions. You don't have a political majority negotiated for this, not even in your coalition, let alone in the Chamber of Deputies. You have simply failed as a social democracy completely fatally. As far as the tax package is concerned, my colleague, as I said. From 2013 to 2019 you had CZK 400 billion additionally as a government to redistribute. How much more do you want to pull out of these people's pockets? I mean, that's a huge amount of money. With that, you could have paid for any priorities if you had them. Because you've spent everywhere and always, so you've got nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u53	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact, Mrs Valachová. He's still expecting... You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u54	This and the previous government spent. However, towards the people, what the previous governments had chosen for them, and how we spent, those two governments that ruled social democracy along with the ANO movement, it was not enough, because we are still on the pensions and salaries as we are, and the rest of Europe, which, by the way, has much higher and more progressive taxes, looks like that. I will be happy to study the proposals, as my colleague Skopeček has asked, and I will look positively for support not only in the coalition, but also across the political spectrum for pension reform, because our seniors deserve it. And what was said here by me on the counter, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Skopeček through the President is an economist, so I am sure he likes to count, these are facts. Numbers can't be tricked. That's been said, and I believe you'll think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u55	Well, thank you. And one more point in fact, my colleague Skopeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u56	Yes, I'll say one number, too, if you like numbers. That number is 16,000. And that number means the number of new civil servants. I don't mean cops, I don't mean teachers. Sixteen thousand new civil servants admitted to state services by this government. This, Madam Secretary, is what you spend. If it's for people, I don't know. I think that 16,000 civil servants would be living in the private sector at a time when employers in the private sector are hard at work, creating more value added than in the government, where you have taken them in this huge number. As far as taxation is concerned, you're wrong about that either, my colleague. If you look at the folded tax quota that has grown in modern history since 1993 to record levels, and it affects 37 percent of the gross domestic product, you will find that the Czech Republic is above the OECD average in this, or we have above-average taxation within developed countries, thanks to your government. Or no thanks, but for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u57	So, I want to lead you to order. I know that the state budget concerns everything, including pensions and taxes, but I would like to talk about the state budget. Now there is a point in fact made by Mrs Valachová. My colleague Klaus is still on hold. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u58	Mr President, I will, of course, respect your call and get back to the subject. However, the last point is through you. My colleague Skopeček will not cheat me by drawing up a folded tax quota, because he knows as well as I do that this is a completely different criterion from the question of setting tax rates and progression. But let's save it for the tax package. I'm sure we'll figure it out next week. And, Mr President, I will respect that, at this point in time, we are primarily intended to approve the budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u59	Thank you. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Václav Klaus, who is enrolled in the debate, I state that there has been an apology by Minister Metnar for the negotiations within 13 hours for urgent business reasons. Now Mr. Václav Klaus, Zdeněk Ondráček will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u60	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Looks like we've got a long day ahead of us, so I won't keep you long. I shall briefly announce the opinion of the Tricolore on this submitted budget. The budget that is presented, according to our conviction, supports the division of Czech society. In recent years, Czech society has been increasingly divided into people who are living, who are working, and the second part that is being fed by the state. During this government, it accelerated sharply, and the covid drove it to the diametric heights. This budget makes it even deeper, and our proposals for the state to significantly slim down, level the company were not accepted. That's one division you bring. Secondly, this budget divides the citizens of the Czech Republic into those who have some savings from their work and will suffer, and those who have no savings, and they do not care more or less what happens to the state finances and the entire banking sector. We can't agree with that either. Thus, the Tricolore will in no way support this wording of the budget. In particular, because our amendment was rejected at first reading, but also on this general principle, which I mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u61	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Next is Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, colleagues, I am addressing you with a request to support one of my two amendments, namely the amendment which I have moved from the chapter of the budget, or within the chapter of the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, whose rapporteur I am, 100 million. CZK from the item support to non-state non-profit organizations when in the year - and who remembers who you were here during the discussion of this budget at first reading, I pointed out here that in 2019 there was 40 million. CZK, in 2020, the proposal was already 70 million. CZK, but with the amendment we reduced it by 20 million, so it remained 50. And for this year, there is support for 156.5 miles. Crowns. That means an increase of more than 100 miles. I'm the 100 miles. he basically took and in the framework of budget chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior moved them into two items, and it is to the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps for payment of the so-called. Over-the-counter. Over-the-counter, overtime, possibly. rewards. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this covidal state and emergency, and you can ask for yourself, there are a number of police officers who are here in the building who are free today because they have to serve these hours because it is the emergency state and they will serve them until the so-called 150 hours that they can be ordered to do so. So some colleagues are standing here today, and they can smile because in 12 hours, or as long as we act here, they won't get a crown. This could somehow make things right, because we would move 80 billion. cops, which are change, and 20 miles. Firefighters. Do you know why I want us to move the money? I have now been informed in this discussion that there is a bit of a problem, because the money comes from the EU and it is directly targeted at these nonprofits. You see, the problem here was mentioned recently by colleague Okamura, where he actually mentioned a problem with some nonprofits that operate within the Ministry of the Interior. And one of these nonprofits was mentioned by the Refugee Aid Organization. You may recall when this organization, this nonprofit, judged for migrants or those persons who have been illegally staying here in the Czech Republic, 180,000 compensation for the alleged, well, since it was a conviction, I will leave out the word supposedly for mistrials. [[12.00 hours]] You know, it seems very strange to me that we pay here nonprofits that are essentially going against the state, and it doesn't matter if they are nonprofits that work at the Ministry of Transport, Children of the Earth and other ecological, eco-terrorist non-profit organizations, or if they are organisations within individual ministries. I am specifically interested in the Ministry of the Interior, and I do not see why there should be an increase of, say, 300 per cent against the state of 2020. If we were to transfer it to industry, it's probably the same thing as saying that the European Union is sending us free sand to put it in our own lubricants, and then we're wondering if we're leaving our machines. Or a number of you are from the agricultural sector, so if the European Union sends us pesticides for free to sprinkle our fields with them, and then we will be surprised that the yields on our growing areas are significantly lower than elsewhere. If we want to be - and I think that we are still - a sovereign country, then we should decide which non-profit organizations we support ourselves, and many of them are very good and I appreciate them very much for their work, but I do not see why the European Union should specifically send money to support some non-profits, which then go against the Czech Republic, against the state. I would like to ask for your support and, at the same time, I would like to ask the rapporteur when we vote on this proposal to draw your attention to this, so that you know what we are voting on here. I would also like, through Mr President, if there is a Vice-President of the Security Committee, Mr Žáček, so believe that if you and your right-wing colleagues vote in favour of this proposal, then perhaps you will receive a thank-you from the police force or the deputy for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u63	Thank you. Mr. Roman Onderka will perform for the ČSSD club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, first through Mr President to Mr Skopečka. I have a habit of criticizing someone, so I clean up my own doorstep first. Do not criticize social democracy and any government in the Czech Republic, and certainly not the last two, that it has not prepared pension reform when no government has succeeded since 1989. You did the 2013 pension reform for Prime Minister Nečas, and it turned out the way it did. It is clear that pension reform, any correction in pensions as such require a broad consensus between all political entities in the Chamber of Deputies, because it is not a law that we are doing for two, for four years or for eight, but we are doing it in advance for decades. And that's the point. And if the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs kicked it out today, someone calls it pension corrections, someone calls it retirement reform, and they don't have these changes on that amount of income, that means the budget, so they cover all the corrections, clear, so that means it's a kickoff. It is a kickoff for all of us to realize that it is simply time for us to finally agree on pension reform for the citizens of this country. The budget itself. We're talking about a $320 billion deficit. The koruna and certainly all of us know that we are talking about a deficit of at least 430 billion. Crowns. We'll have a tax package of 22. 12. at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies will decide whether to increase the deficit by 110 or 130 billion. That's what you need to say. Citizens of the Czech Republic must know that we are de facto approving the budget for next year, which will be about some 70 billion this year. only smaller. In my speech at first reading, I already said that I did not like this budget, that I think there could have been some changes on the expense page, but now it is no longer worth talking about, because the first reading is over, and the revenue and expenditure of the House is clearly determined by its vote and we are only talking about whether and what amendments by you, honourable colleagues, including my person, will be voted today or not, and which will be supported by the Ministry of Finance or not. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for agreeing on amendments which will be seen as coalition, let it be 100 billion. from an ANO colleague in support of the rescue mountain service, or subsequently my amendment to 300 billion. to support... [[Attention from the diaper.]] I'm sorry - 100 miles. And 300 miles, thank you, colleague - 300 miles. to promote live art in the field of culture in individual regions. In addition to thanking the Minister, I would like to thank all of you, all of you, and all political entities, because in this Chamber of Deputies of all political parties, you have come to me with your support for this proposal. I very much appreciate that they should be Members of the TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, ODS, Pirates, SPD, of course, the YES movement, the Communist Party. I have purposely named you all because I appreciate it and I want everyone in this country to know that even though it was my changeling as a Social Democrat that it was you, those who had already declared your support for this amendment in advance. That means he's going across the political spectrum. I'm glad because culture deserves it. Regional theatres are experiencing a huge amount of difficult times, given that they have not played since March. When she wanted to take a breath and play in a limited environment, suddenly a covid came back, there's a pandemic again, they can't play again. They won't play in January. We're getting into a position who knows if they're gonna be playing by the end of the season, that's until the holidays of 2021. The season tickets they had pre-sold had to be canceled. Sponsor contracts I don't know how they would fulfill if they didn't play, which means they couldn't present some of the companies that contributed to them at the premieres. And that is why I think it is very important that these funds for these cultural institutions of living art in the Czech Republic, in the regions, will be released and that, at least I hope, they will survive this time so that they can then return it to us. Today will be about honored The Chamber of Deputies will approve the budget for 2021, which means whether the minority government of the ANO movement and social democracy will find other parliamentary parties or individuals to help us approve this budget or whether we will not approve it. In contrast to the Minister, I think that a one-month slip in the sense that the Czech Republic would be a month in the budgetary provisional that we could do it. It would have been done at government level, I think it would have been done at regional level and at municipal budget level. I am convinced that it will therefore be a matter for us today either to approve the budget for 2021 or, in some time horizon, about months and something, to have more room for negotiation and to approve this budget. [[12.10 hours]] Why do I say that? Because, at the same time, with my second breath, I must say that the amendment from the Communist Party to reduce the Ministry of Defence's budget by CZK 10 billion is absolutely unacceptable to the Social Democrats and will not vote in favour of this amendment to social democracy. Noting that social democracy brought this country into NATO and into the European Union, do we want to take money from those we applaud today, that is, those who stood at the border in March who went to homes for seniors who helped paramedics without whom we couldn't even be tested? Do we want to take money from those who leave these homes after that, so the staff applaud them? I consider that hypocrisy. And I consider this amendment to be a dirty deal for the budget. Social democracy will not be involved. For the budget with a deficit of CZK 320 billion, as the government of the Czech Republic approved and sent to the Chamber of Deputies, the Social Democrats will vote, as we have already announced in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u65	Well, thank you, and so far, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will be speaking last in the debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u66	So hello. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, at this moment there is a press conference at the General Faculty Hospital where I should have attended, but the Minister has withdrawn me. It is surprising that there is such a short debate, we expected it to be until nightfall. And the most important thing I'm actually dealing with yesterday, morning, today, is vaccination. Inoculation is the only solution to the end of this trauma of the worst year since the emergence of a separate state. Finally, the European Commission, hopefully the EMA will approve. I asked Ursula von der Leyen about the European Council why Great Britain has been vaccinated since December 8th. Does this mean that if we were not in the European Union, we would also be vaccinated? Why did the United States approve Pfizer - FDA? Why is Israel inoculating? Europe will not inoculate yet. If anyone doubts that the EMA won't approve Pfizer, it's nonsense. It's just bureaucracy, and of course we're preparing for the vaccination. And that's what we've been dealing with. I have to laugh when someone tells me I'm micromanagement. Yeah, I'm micromanagement. I have a lot of experience with the Department of Health, with the state administration, and I have other life experiences, and I'm old and I'm just not gonna let that happen. And that's why I was in Motol for about two hours this morning. Of course, the Ministry of Health has been tasked that when the first ten boxes of vaccine, 9 750 units of vaccine arrive in the Czech Republic, and hopefully it will be, I don't know, after Christmas, when Europe finally begins to vaccinate, we have agreed with the Minister of Health - this is the vaccine that has minus 70, Motol bought a special refrigerator for 450 thousand, it is not a normal refrigerator for minus 70 - and we have agreed to split the vaccines by region. I spoke to the Governor of Kuba, and he had a suggestion that we do it according to the paramedics, but that would be difficult. In short, the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health have a clear order. The vaccine comes to the warehouse, splits into all regions, cars from individual regions will be waiting there, it will be delivered and it will finally begin to vaccinate. I have a schedule here, I won't tell you where it is, Prague 1, 204 vaccines and so on. And that's very important. Very important. We've decided to inoculate doctors and nurses, those who fight in the front line. So it's gonna be surgery again. And I went into detail. I'm asking, well, how it's gonna be, the report, somebody's gonna tap that computer again, we don't have an insurance card, a reader, I'm gonna say the birth number, that's it. I'm gonna go check it out. Although we have digitized Czech health care most because of coronavirus. Of course, this is the most important thing. This is the most important and we will hurry. We have to-- we're gonna get five kinds of vaccines. One vaccine is a single, so it doesn't have to be repeated, four... Insurance companies are preparing a tender for distribution. I asked if firefighters could help. No, it's gonna be a competition, probably for each vaccine separately. Of course, all vaccines are not yet approved. Just the Pfizer. And that's what we're working on. Yes, there was supposed to be a campaign. It's late. We should have convinced our fellow citizens long ago that the solution to this crazy situation that we are all experiencing this year is vaccination. Inoculation only. We need to convince people that it's in favor of their health, protecting their lives. Yesterday, I think there were 8,000 infected. The number is increasing in hospitals, hospitalized. Unfortunately, too many people died. And that's the situation. And we simply have to handle this operation. And I strongly hope that there will be absolute cooperation with the chieftains and the chairman of the association. We're on the phone, we're working, we're talking about the antigens that started today, the reservation system. And that's the priority. Priority. So I wanted to start by saying that this is the most important thing on the table today. That's the solution. And it would be good for us to work on our fellow citizens in this regard, and hopefully the Ministry of Health will finally launch a campaign. Because Europe is preparing a campaign. Ursula von der Leyen said I don't know who's gonna be on the posters, maybe Messi, maybe, I don't know, some other famous athletes. We are also talking about this to convince and fight against the fake news, against the various misinformations that are in the media space. As far as the budget is concerned. So I was late, I'm sorry about that, and I actually heard Mr. Bartošek's speech that said we couldn't push the budget. Yes, we don't have budget support at the moment. Why? Well, because we're a minority government. A menšinový government, tolerated by the KSČM, you're still blaming us for. And in short, the KSČM comes up with a proposal that we don't like. I don't. [[12.20 hours]] And you have different opinions here. And Mr. Bartošek says that we have failed, that we have no support. We don't have support. We failed. But he'd love to, and I'd also like to give money for psychiatric care. It's very important. And the advice, and still, to keep the psychiatry system at all, because we're about 690 million short. There's still no money. And I'd also like to go to social services. Construction of municipal flats - yes, we have programs. That's why we need the building bill. And the municipalities - yes, the Senate returns the tax package. There is support for self-government, the region and the municipality - 22.7 billion. So we're blamed that we don't have the support and that we're actually the responsible ones who are gonna make this chaos. But I think you have a chance to stop it. And you should think of all the citizens of this country. Mr. Skopeček here was talking about various projects. Yes, health care is the absolute priority. We've increased 20 billion state insured people to health this year, next year it's 53 billion. We have debted hospitals - 6.5 billion. We have an investment plan for hospitals - 73 billion by 2030 and 163 by 2050. And I think the projects, the maternity ward in Brno, finally after 20 years, for $2 billion. Same obstetrics at Apolinář, greetings to Professor Pařízek. I love it when the professor tells me, well, you know how many premieres were born here, and no one helped me. My children were born in Neratovice and my granddaughters too, so I don't have a conflict of interest. No one helped him. Now it's going to register so we can finally have a modern maternity ward. Modern maternity ward. So we finally have, and I've been working on that a lot, too, the National Cancer Plan. Inspiration, this time Joe Biden - 2016 - Moon Shot. It's not Trump with a red hat. We want strong Czech Republic. It's Biden. I don't remember the exact number, I mean up to 30,000 people. And we have a great project. We have a project of Prague Yellow. Masaryk's Cancer Institute in Brno takes patients to June. We have some of the best cancer doctors in the world. Part of the National Recovery Plan, which I showed Ursule von der Leyen, is two investments in the fight against cancer, two oncological institutes, one in Motol for 4 billion and the other should be on a green meadow. The new independent cancer institute - the Czech Cancer Institute. We have a repair of the Thomayerka pulmonary pavilion. Professor Vašáková is one of the best in Europe. 7,000 people die of lung cancer every year. And we have lots of other projects. We have a burn pavilion in the Royal Vinohrady. And that's where we want to invest. And all of this will be in jeopardy. All of this because you say the government doesn't have a majority, we want a lot of money here, we're proposing changers, but we don't really want to approve the budget because we want to -- what? I don't know what you want. You just want to cause trouble? You want to make trouble for people? Transport infrastructure. 250 kilometers of highways will be built. How much does it take? A long time. Up to 13 years. And we've already opened. [[Unintelligible]] Why aren't you opening the door? Well, because we didn't inherit anything from our predecessors. The land wasn't even bought out. There was no money. Now the money is, and you want to tear it down. You want to stop it. Why? The D1, which will finally be completed next year, 160 kilometers fungle new highways. And who can say what they want, let them go and see that they start from the ground. It's going to be 75 cm to the right and 75 to the left and it's going to cost 26 billion. So we're gonna stop all this now? Do we want to put pensions in jeopardy? Or communities and regions? What about the co-financing? What happens if there's a budget commission? Do you know the last time there was a budget commission? 1999 and 2000. Well, ask Tyl, that's the deputy in finance. Because what happens to the IT systems? If you don't support it, there's just a risk that the IT systems aren't tailored to the budgetary commission that the computer will have a problem with it. So what about digitalization? Science and research? We said it was for the investment budget. Yes, you don't like it, there's a big deficit. If I compare it to Germany, it has a 13-fold deficit, and so does the others. So the budget is the maximum possible. And here are some savings. Come on... Or there was a criticism of how many officials we had. So most of the new officials, that's 13,000 teachers, that's soldiers, cops. Why do you keep saying that when you know it's not the clerk in the office, but it's the people we need? Our citizens need these people every day. So I don't understand. I understand, of course, that this is the main objective... Besides, of course, the main thing is to get rid of Babiš, and it needs to be torn down now to show how incompetent this Babiš is. And he couldn't do it. He couldn't negotiate support. How are we supposed to do that? Then explain it to me. It was the same with the emergency, wasn't it? Yes, the Communists have supported the budget five times, and now they are laying down conditions that are not acceptable to us. So I don't know. If someone could tell us how to do it, then. So the budgetary provisional will be understood, yes, as a failure not only by the government - and Europe's biggest problem is that we do not have a majority system. It's that simple. And all of Europe has that problem. And then we compete against the majority systems, where the decision-making is different. So it's not just the government, it's the opposition who says they won't support it. And I don't know who's gonna applaud it. Your voters are gonna applaud this? How will you justify to your constituents that you have done nothing at this worst moment, ten days - not ten days, what is it? The 16th. Eight days before Christmas, two weeks before the end of the year, at a time when we're getting infected, you're going to say, "We're not going to support you." We won't. [[12.30 hours]] But Mrs Schillerová, if there's a budget provisional, she won't be able to respond and move the money within the budget, that's what special rules are for. So please, I want to ask you not to really do this, because you always declare how we want to do this together, and you advise us, and what we do, how we do it. Fine. And I'm not saying that some of these ideas are good and we support them. So handling the consequences of the pandemic and the pandemic itself is directly linked to the budget. And it should simply be a priority task for the entire political representation. And how long will it be when I look at the numbers of vaccines that the European Union has made available to us, and I also think that, or I am already taking some steps to probably get more vaccines to do it sooner. Some of them have been scheduled for a long time. So I think we're in the same boat, and you can say we're incompetent a hundred times because we don't have the majority. Well. And I don't know how to do that. Why don't you give me some advice on how we should do this? So I think that if you want to do something for the citizens of this country and if you don't want to jeopardize their lives here, if you don't want to jeopardize the management of the pandemic by our state, then I want to ask you and ask you - Mr Bartoš, Mr Jurečka, Mr Fiala, Mr Okamura, Mrs Adamová Pekarová, Mr Filip and Mr Klaus - to leave the O.R. and do not want to approve the budget! If you leave the O.R., it'll be a constructive step on your part. Constructive. It is a step that will unblock the situation, and it is a step that will help and enable the Czech Republic to overcome the greatest health and economic challenge in the last 30 years. And you'll be able to say yes, even though we hate this Babiš guy, his government, then after all, citizens are more important to us than hating Babiš. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u67	The rapporteur, Mrs Vostrá, will get off, then the MP will be ready... sorry, I'll ask. Do you want to speak with the facts or with priority rights? [[Newswoman off the mic: I want to talk without a fact.]] So I will ask Mr Ferjenčík, who I have signed up with a point of fact, then Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr Vít Kaňkovský, all factual remarks, and then with the priority right of the rapporteur and Mr Kalousek. I'd just, before I give you my word, clarify the situation. At 12.45 we will interrupt this point, we will deal with the electoral point, which is firmly placed at 12.45 hours, and then we will continue at 14.30 hours in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, you asked for advice, so I'll give you some advice on how we think this should be handled. Step number one is-- you call this tax pasculi, which you put forward, where you give every 70 grand to the people with parliamentary salaries here, you give 7 grand to the people with minimum wages -- you call everyone the same -- and you put 100 billion holes in the budget, which will make Mrs Schillerová's excuse that we can't help the pub over there, that we can't help the business, that we can't help tourism, and that says there's no money for it. So step number one-- call this off, then redo the budget so he counts on the corona crisis, which doesn't count on the current budget, and then come and talk to us all and the whole opposition about how we're gonna solve this situation. This is the procedure I suggest you take. As far as the provisional budget is concerned. The expenditure framework for this year is higher than the next one, so I'm sure you can handle that one month. And if your information systems fall apart after seven years of the Ministry of Finance, you'd better not do anything before the election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u69	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u70	Dear Prime Minister, I think you've told us a lot of what we have here. And I'll tell you what else we can add to that. We have a prime minister whose government doesn't think of the future of our children and grandsons. We have a prime minister whose government has done no reform. We have a prime minister here whose government has recruited the most officials. We have a prime minister here who carries out the biggest attacks on the financing of municipalities, regions and cities and their citizens. We have a prime minister whose government is spinning a debt spiral and the result is the highest deficit in the last 30 years. We also have a prime minister here who says we have chaos. Yes, Prime Minister, you're right. And your speech was also proof of this chaos. Absolutely, total chaos. But what's worse, we have a prime minister here who tells us that he doesn't know what to do and that we, the opposition, will be responsible for the chaos. And of course, there's a prime minister who's always looking for a culprit. This time it's a majority electoral system. Prime Minister, if there's going to be a provisional budget, the culprit will not be the majority electoral system, but it will be you who in this state is causing the most chaos in public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Vít Kaňkovský will speak with a point of fact, and Vice-President Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u72	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, fellow Members, I would have responded briefly to the Prime Minister. It won't be controversial. However, Prime Minister, I very much appreciate you putting a lot of emphasis on vaccination. However, we are here today in the debate on the state budget. You've made a substitute for a press conference on vaccinations. It doesn't bother me completely, because the real issue of vaccination is very important. But if you're talking to the TV cameras and you're saying that we're very well prepared for vaccination, I think you're confusing the public. We talked about it in professional circles, we discussed it today at the Central Crisis Staff, we talk about it on the Health Committee, we talk about it in the regions. This vaccination-ready situation, we're somewhere at maybe one third of the logistics set up. That means yes, let's work together on that, but let's just say that at this point, hospitals in the county don't know how it's going to go down. You go to the biggest hospital in the country, you take a picture, you say that the hospital buys a deep-freeze box for 450,000, and that makes it clear that we're ready for it. But there aren't many things that are really set up. That means, let's work together, but let's not tell people it's already set up. These people get confused. And investment in medical facilities. How many times have we called for you to support, for example, the Center for Cardiovascular and Transplant Surgery in Brno, the birth pavilion in Brno and other and other facilities, already in the last term. And now you come in and say you supported it, and it almost looks like it's from Agrofert's wallet. I don't think that's fair. It's from taxpayers' money. That means, let's not say "I supported, I was the only one who did it." It doesn't stand like that. That's all citizens' money. Even those who are here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u73	Thank you for keeping time. Vice-President Okamura will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u74	Dear Prime Minister, I must respond to this. Because you asked me a moment ago - and specifically - to leave the O.R.A., to be constructive, to go over the budget. So I'm telling you, we're not leaving any hall because you, for example, give money to the Refugee Aid Organization in your budget. She's a pro-migration nonprofit, as well as other pro-migration nonprofits. That's the nonprofit I asked you to comment on two months ago. You've been silent for two months. And this is the nonprofit that sued the Czech Republic and sentenced the Czech courts, in the Czech Republic, on behalf of two illegal Afghan migrants, CZK 180,000 for each of our budgets. So instead of cutting the money off to these harmful political non-profits who openly promote migration to the Czech Republic, you're not going to cross it off because you're being servile to Brussels policy. Normally, I would like to say that you are kissing the European Union in the ass. Normally you trade us on behalf of the European Union, us ten million citizens of the Czech Republic, at least SPD voters. Well, don't use the money to the pro-migration nonprofits. And since you can't do that, now you're saying that SPD MPs are supposed to leave the O.R. and that we're supposed to be constructive. Oh, no, you don't. And the other thing, money for inadaptables. We've had an amendment to the SPD pen for a year now to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. You've had enough time to get away with it. It's in the budget again, and the decent people will pay off the so-called inadaptable. I'm telling you, don't use it. Yesterday we met on this, the SPD tabled more than 20 amendments - and you told me that neither of you would support it. So whoever's not constructive, who's blocking the budget, is you, Prime Minister. Let's put it this way. On the contrary, the SPD was constructive. We want to talk about our amendments, we want to talk about what you're going to push us through, but you're just completely stuck. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u75	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Bartošek. With a factual point of view. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u76	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I was one of those people you asked me to leave the O.R. You urge me not to execute the mandate of a Member so that I do not exercise my will by voting. Hang on to those words. I represent my constituents here, I represent the opinion of my constituents here. And I refuse to leave the House just because you don't have enough votes to approve this budget. You neglected to prepare the state budget, repeatedly thinking you were negotiating or bribed by the Communist Party. You've wasted months. Instead of looking for a solution to redeploy and realize the state budget, you thought it would work out as always. And it looks like you were wrong. And it also seems that this state budget is another step towards the chaos of your government that you are leading, which is not helping entrepreneurs. Go see what the restaurants that these people are really dealing with look like today. As my colleague Kaňkovský said, we are not ready for vaccination, and what you are saying here is not true. While big halls are being prepared in neighbouring Germany and ready to inoculate, you are still dealing with a government agent. You know about this happening in weeks. You didn't do anything about it. So don't limit me to my mandate. I will show this by voting on the state budget and say in advance that I will vote against this budget. Because it is a material that is already dead at this point, which you also know does not apply, and that you lie to the Czech Republic and the people in the Czech Republic with the whole budget. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u77	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Please note that I'll stop at 12.45 hours. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u78	Thank you. I'll be very quick. You didn't name me, Prime Minister, but you appointed my chairman Mr. Václav Klaus. I can assure you, we certainly don't intend to leave the O.R. On the contrary, we will be here throughout the negotiations and the vote, and I hope that you will also support our Tricolor proposals for savings or savings for the state budget in the total amount of CZK 70 billion that we have tabled here. I consider your challenge here to be really, really rude, because I and everyone else here have the mandate of a Member, and I do not see why we should leave the hall when the budget for 2021 is being dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-16-ps2017-072-06-001-337.u79	Thank you. Since we have 12.44 and we have one more application for de facto, Mr Blaha, but I suppose it will be a little longer, so I'd like to interrupt this point by 12.45 and we'll continue with the vote at 12.45... We have 12.45 and we have a point.
