ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 514/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill would be introduced by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman, whom I welcome among us. Please take the floor. I'll ask the House for peace! And, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u2	Once again a good day, Mr President, Madam Members. Allow me to state the Government's bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. The submitted amendment implements the EU directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes on the basis of additional -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u3	Minister, I can hardly hear you, so I will allow myself to ask the House for peace, or colleagues who are dealing with something to deal with it in the lobby. [[A group of discussing members of the ČSSD.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed amendment implements the EU directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes on the basis of additional requirements of the European Commission. Following the discussion on dog reproductions, the amendment introduces the definition of the propagation plant, introduces registration and information obligations for the sale and donation of puppies, so-called. list of litter puppy. It extends the range of bodies to which these obligations apply, in addition to entrepreneurs, breeders' associations and their members, as well as to breeders of three or more bitches. Basic obligations for reproduction of dogs and cats apply to all breeders. The amendment also provides for prohibited activities with selected species of predators and apes, in particular petting and walking in the public area. It tightens the conditions of their breeding, especially size and equipment of the premises, introducing courses to care for these animals. Another aim of the bill is to ensure that the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended competence do not have major financial problems in placing abused animals in preliminary replacement care or replacement care. Newly, the Ministry of Agriculture will bear the costs incurred effectively in ensuring the care of the animal on the basis of an application made by the municipal authority of the municipality with extended application under the conditions laid down by law. The Government's draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 32nd meeting on 19 February 2020 and recommended by its resolution Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted. 16 amendments have been adopted in the Committee on Agriculture, which fall within different areas of the Animal Protection Act against Abuse. The amendments concern, in particular, the prohibition on the sale or transfer of the dog to public areas, the prohibition on the killing of animals by freezing, the tightening of requirements for the professional competence of persons in the slaughter of animals. These are amendments that are in line with the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and will contribute to improving the proposal, and I therefore agree with them. At the same time, I support the decision of the Agricultural Committee, which has not adopted an amendment concerning the prohibition of cage breeding of laying hens. Let the consumer decide which egg he prefers. If there is to be a ban on cage breeding of laying hens, I believe that it should be laid down uniformly throughout the European Union. The ban set only for the Czech Republic will make our farmers' competitiveness worse, while the eggs from cages will be imported to us. For the sake of completeness, I will state that the amendment on the issue of the right of entry of the Police of the Czech Republic into the dwelling in the event of reasonable suspicion that there is an abused animal has been discussed by the Committee on the Environment, while the Ministry of Agriculture supports this solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u5	Thank you, too. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on the Environment. The resolution of the Agricultural Committee was delivered as House prints 514/1 and 514/3. The Committee on the Environment submitted a resolution delivered as House Press 514/2 and further submitted an entry which was delivered as House Press 514/4. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any proposals. Please. And once again, I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly and very briefly introduce you to the farm committee resolution 156 of the 32nd meeting of 19 February 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, House print 514. Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Agriculture Jindřich Fialka, report by Mr Pavel Kováčik and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, House press 514, to approve the amendments adopted. - There are about 12 pages of amendments that, except for one minister, have been positively accepted here. II. The Committee hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the PS Office, to propose, where appropriate, other necessary adjustments under Section 95/2002 of the PS Rules of Procedure Act. III. It empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic - which I have just done. IV. He instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Madam and gentlemen, so many resolutions by the agricultural committee and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u7	Thank you. I hope at least some of your colleagues have paid attention to you. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Karla Maříková, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee, to justify any amendments. Once again, I call on Members to move their discussions into the lobby, if necessary! Or they disbanded the debate groups! In particular, Members in the left side of the hall I would like to call for more peace! Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the minutes of the Committee on the Environment, as we have not adopted a resolution. The Committee on the Environment at its 24th meeting of 19 February 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, House print 514. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Agriculture . Jiří Šír, report by Mrs Karla Maříková, represented by Mr Jaroslav Holík, and after the debate by the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. has not adopted a resolution on the submitted Government Bill; II. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u9	Thank you. That was the opening words of the news report, and I am now opening up a general debate in which I have 12 applications at the moment. Mr Pošvář is the first to be logged in, Mr Elfmark will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me to present to you two amendments. [[Noise in the hall.]] The first concerns the prohibition of cage breeding of laying hens. We presented this proposal already in December last year with colleagues Roman Sklenák for Social Democracy, Markéta Jarošová for SPD, Vlastimil Válek for TOP 09 and an ANO colleague. He eventually withdrew his support in January. In the context of this law, this proposal was then submitted to the two committees which dealt with it. He was not accepted on the Committee on Agriculture. On the Environment Committee was presented by Mr. Jan Chvojka for ČSSD, František Elfmark for Pirates, Karla Maříková for SPD -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u11	Ambassador, I will interrupt you again and ask my colleagues and colleagues in the left side of the hall to move their discussions somewhere else! I'd also like to ask my colleagues at the newsletter's desk... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u12	Thank you, too. It was presented to the Committee on the Environment by Mr Jan Chvojka for ČSSD, František Elfmark for Pirates, Karla Maříková for SPD and Markéta Pekarová Adamová for TOP 09. The proposal was narrowly passed by one vote, but the resolution from the committee as a whole was no longer adopted, so we were not successful here either. Because as counter-arguments during the debates on committees and at seminars on the attic The Chamber of Deputies has heard various half-truths and myths, and I will read you a brief summary of Dr. Karel Janek from the Academy of Sciences. We published it on the Pirate Sheets, including all the sources from which it was drawn. One of the most agriculturalally important species of animals is the kurs. It comes mainly from the southern Asian wild ancestor of a banker who leads active life in small flocks. To further assess the welfare of laying hens, it is important to mention that the wild ancestor of the chickens developed many adaptive behavioral elements during evolution, which allow it to survive successfully under ground conditions, especially by digging, by avoiding predators by nighting high in branches and nesting in well hidden places. Parasites are prevented, among other things, by keeping their feathers in order by means of ash, which they perform several times a day. The domestic domestic domestic domestic domestication lasted for thousands of years and gave rise to many breeds kept for both meat and eggs. Kur has undergone intensive breeding focused on productivity, whether rapid growth or high laying, and has thus changed significantly from his wild ancestor in many physiological aspects. However, significantly less attention was focused on ethological changes. During domestication there was a significant reduction in aggression and shyness, which are undesirable properties for breeding, but otherwise a repertoire of natural elements of the behavior of chickens only minor changes. After all, everyone may be a little more perceptive little keeper to confirm that the landlord is a movingly very active animal, looking for hidden nests and has the need to plow at the highest possible peril, although he is not at risk of an attack from predators. Many studies have shown that these and other elements of behavior are born to Kur. Birds have a strong motivation to exercise them, and if they are prevented from performing them, they experience stress and deprivation. Today's breedings can be classified into several basic types. Firstly, conventional battery cages, secondly, enriched cages, thirdly, hall breedings and aviaries, fourthly, free runs and finally so-called organic farming. This list coincidentally reflects the suitability of breeding establishments from the point of view of animal welfare from the worst to the best. Since conventional battery cages do not allow hens to realize practically any necessary behaviors other than eating and drinking, they were therefore banned in developed countries. Enriched cages differ from battery cages in that they must contain a nest without, of course, a decree setting out what to look like, litter, and, as far as I know, not a quantity. This is supposed to allow theoretical birds to dig and peck. Next, the masses and means for shortening the claws. Hall breeding already allows free movement around the halls, which are to be largely covered with bedding and must also provide nests and rumps. In addition, aviary breeding includes shelves allowing laying hens to make better vertical use of space, which, as we have already mentioned, is of great importance to birds. Finally, free breeding then represents the type of breeding with the greatest potential for welfare and is the closest to the traditional farming method. Since the proposed bill assumes the transfer of cages to the halls, we will therefore focus on the comparison of these two systems. Increased interest in alternative breeding, more friendly to the needs of birds, of course led to an intensifying of the interest of scientists and authorities in the health care of egg consumers from such breeds. To date, there are already relatively many studies from different parts of the world that compare bacterial contamination of chicken farms products. Ideally, these studies compare the incidence of bacteria in the environment where the hen occurs - a cage, such as bedding and the like, in the kangaroos of birds and their feces, on the shells of eggs laid or stored, as well as in the contents of eggs, egg yolk, egg whites. Last but not least, they are also interested in resistance to antibiotics found in bacteria. For methodological reasons, in earlier times, and unfortunately, this also applies to some of today's studies, calculated the incidence and prevalence of bacteria as such, or only a few selected pathogenic species were studied using cultivation methods. However, a mere comparison of the number of bacteria has limited notice value and it is currently a trend to study the species diversity of bacterial settlements using new methods of DNA analysis. Current data certainly do not indicate increased risks of infection with pathogens in non-cage breeding. There is no doubt that the egg shells from the wilder breeding are much denser populated by bacteria than those from cages where there is not so much pollution. However, there is quite a consensus that the contamination of the egg content is very low and the housing system does not have any effect on it. After all, that's understandable. The birds have been on Earth for over a hundred million years, and if their shells couldn't effectively resist the more invasive bacteria, we probably wouldn't have met them. Some modern studies of bacterial diversity have even shown that although the total contamination of shells is lower in cages, these eggs may have a significantly higher representation of some potentially dangerous pathogens on their shells, and even that the environment of cages may show a higher risk, risk of transmission and infection with salmonella. Overall, it is certainly not possible to say that retreating from cages would lead to higher health risks. However, I find it particularly disturbing that conventional breeding bacteria, including halves, show much higher resistance to antimicrobial products and their combinations than those from freer and alternative breeding. Although resistance bacteria have been clearly documented in domestic breeding, the difference seems to be related to overuse of antibiotics in intensive breeding, which may have a very dangerous effect on the spread of resistant pathogens and their transmission to people who may not be treated with antibiotics. [[17.20 hours]] Now to mortality. Although the mortality of chickens is highly observed, there are not many studies that compare on a robust dataset the different types of breeding and the influence of the parameters there. Some - even questionnaire studies by Belgian farmers - found slightly higher mortality in enriched cages compared to halls, others, such as meta-analysis by Aerni from 2005, did not detect differences between breeding types, and finally some showed even higher average mortality in single-storey halls. Thus, the type of breeding does not seem to have a major impact on mortality and rather depends on the experience of the breeder, the specific performance of the breeding, which, after all, suggests the above-mentioned questionnaire study. The development of high litters led to extreme demands for calcium metabolism in chickens, so osteoporosis is one of the most serious health complications in breeding. As we also know from human medicine, lack of exercise has a negative effect on the development of this disease, so it is not surprising that in cages the incidence of this painful disease is higher than in wilder breeds that allow movement. Osteoporosis leads to fractures, most often on the ridge of the sternum. It was shown that due to the impact on obstacles and inappropriate handling, the incidence of fractures is higher in non-cage cages than in cages, but also there reaches the end of the laying cycle of alarming numbers. Thus, regardless of the type of breeding, the prevention of fractures and osteoporosis is one of the biggest problems of the current welfare of laying hens, which requires a comprehensive solution from housing methods through dietary measures to selection of suitable breeds. As far as parasites are concerned, mites are being attacked, especially by a bumblebee of chicken, which is believed to be more frequent in cage breeding due to the possibility of shelter in the litter. Comparative studies suggest this trend, but do not show a significant difference as this parasite may be quite common in cage breeding. On the contrary, as a result of the ashing potential, indoor hens have a better chance of getting rid of parasites living in feathers. Among other health complications are frequent and serious problems of the legs, where the particular type of disease appears to be related to the type of housing, so it appears that the damage to the fingers and hyperkeratisation is more frequent and worse in the cage breeding thanks to standing on the tilted floor of wires, while dermatitis is probably more common in the hall breeding, probably due to the contact of the foot with the litter. There are apparently more frequent outbreaks of bacterial diseases in the halls, while viral diseases are more common in the cage systems. So as a result of the difference between mortality, it is not conclusive, as has already been said. For the sake of safety, the hen has a strong need to sleep on high pitches and lay eggs in hidden areas. Both of these activities are so important for chickens that they are willing to invest similar efforts to food. The impossibility of carrying them out leads to restlessness and deprivation. In this cage breeding, although enriched, it certainly fails to fulfil positive roles. For example, let us state that Decree No 208/2004 Sb. While it provides for an obligation to place a 15 cm long bed on a laying hens, it is not enough for all cage inhabitants and also thanks to the height of the ceiling of the perch placed just above the floor in no way to ensure the well-being of the hen, instinctively knows that the ground predator can catch it from something similar. In no way can cage breeding, even those enriched, ensure the possibility of ashing by hens, since the amount of substrate provided is completely insufficient. However, ashing is an extremely important activity for chickens, which they are intensively seeking. In enriched cages, they try to do so at least empty, but this, of course, does not satisfy their needs. Finally, cages do not offer quality social life, which, as mentioned above, is a very important component of the well-being of the chicken. A hen is a moving active creature with a natural tendency to form small flocks with a strong hierarchical structure. Under natural conditions, subordinate individuals can avoid conflict and go elsewhere, which, unlike those in the halls, does not allow them to do, and such situations can lead to conflicts, feathering, and cannibalism. In the absence of hall breeding, it is argued that laying hens are gathered here into huge flocks, which contradicts their nature. It should be noted, however, that it is from the point of view of Welfar that this unnaturalness is an advantage because chickens in anonymous giant flocks occur so-called. social tolerance and no attempt to aggressively attack. On the contrary, because of increased aggressiveness, smaller flocks are more problematic than 30, where chickens have no choice, who they will be in the flock with, as is the case in those enriched cages. In conclusion, we can find some advantages in any way of housing against others. However, while enriched cages do not constitute any clear advantage in terms of the safety of products or physical health of birds, compared to indoor cages are a much worse solution in terms of welfare and well-being of animals. And now for our proposed amendment. Our proposed amendment is aimed at a total ban on caged laying hens in the Czech Republic. He responds to the reservations of hovering experts, one I just quoted here, experts on welfare animals. It responds to a Europe-wide trend, which has also been transferred to the Czech Republic and, as a result, the entire retail sector envisages switching to eggs from alternative farms. It also responds to public opinion, which the cage breeding of laying hens largely rejects. Similar adjustments have already been adopted in several European countries, including neighbouring Austria and Germany. Efficacy is proposed at 1. 1. 2027, thus leaving the undertakings concerned sufficient time to adapt to the amendment. In the Czech Republic, about 5 million laying hens are currently in commercial breeding, of which 84 percent are in cage systems. In the light of market developments, especially the commitments of large companies, it is expected that by 2025 at least 60 per cent of current cages are transformed into cageless systems without our legislative intervention. The proposed proposal only takes effect from 2027, so it can be assumed that it will actually touch a maximum of 40 per cent of current cage production. The transformation of this part of production will require investment costs of estimated CZK 1.22 to 1.68 billion for the companies concerned. In 2012, companies in the field of laying hens were forced into conversion into enriched cages. In 2027 the commitments entered into in this context will be paid back. Moreover, the usual life span of cage technology is estimated at 15 years, so it can be assumed that even without the adoption of the proposal, significant investments would have to be made in restoring the technological equipment of laying hens. Production costs will only rise by 20 to 40 cents per egg. When converted into average egg consumption per person, costs will be increased by only CZK 4 to 8 per month. The proposed proposal will thus have no significant negative social consequences. What could really have great implications would be the non-approval of my second amendment. This concerns compensation for operators of fur farms. The original proposal submitted to the Committee on Agriculture provides for compensation of CZK 6,900 per mink and CZK 5,400 per fox and, unfortunately, it turned out that it was not based on any serious data. We are returning with our proposal to 2017, when the ban on fur farms was approved, and on this occasion a proposal for compensation of CZK 3,000 per mink and CZK 3,900 per fox was presented in the Senate. On this proposal, the Ministry of Agriculture worked closely together with some senators and this is the last qualified estimate, which is not distorted by developments after 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u13	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We are in the general debate and the next in line is Mr Elfmark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to comment on my amendment, which is under number 5118. The proposed bill introduces a new offence - an attack on another breeder's animal. I understand, of course, that a breeder and an animal kept by him must be held responsible. But even now, if an animal of one breeder attacks another animal, the so-called civil liability for compensation arises. However, an animal is not a thing, but a gifted living creature with his own will, which is not always 100% manageable. Thus, the legalization of a new offence can be counterproductive in an attempt to avoid responsibility, and the breeders will therefore reduce the animals more. Moreover, the proposed amount of the penalty could be liquidation for breeders. Therefore, my amendment releases and maintains the current state of affairs. Thank you for your attention and I will then read my amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u15	Thank you. Next in line is Mr. Jiří Valenta. Mr. David Pražák will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on the amendment to this law, because I am from a group of those Members who have, in the past, submitted a long time and sometimes very vehemently and, ultimately, have successfully submitted a similar regulation of the law on the protection of animals against abuse. It subsequently, as has already been said here, implemented a ban on fur farms in the Czech Republic. Despite the bitter and very loud reactions of the minority part of our public, I am very pleased that this has happened at a distance and that the fashion whims of some did not prevail over the necessary social restrictions of cruel to inhumane treatment of animals, which we certainly could not even partially place in the food chain of man, namely those minks and foxes. You might think I'm going to continue this trend here. However, as I have already told representatives of some non-profit organizations dealing with animal protection, which today require a total ban on cage breeding and hens, and as has also been mentioned in the previous speaker, and with some representatives of non-profit organisations I am occasionally in contact, unfortunately I cannot support such extremely restrictive measures at present. In this sense, I am indifferent to the fact that the appeal of these nonprofits intends to meet the Prime Minister Babiš himself, who has been told that he will support the ban on cages in chickens. I will not support the proposed part of the law concerning the prohibition of caged laying hens on the ground that I would not consider chickens to be a more inferior species compared to mink or fox, but in particular because poultry are an indisputable part of the human food chain, including its eggs. Food chains in this respect, I mean food relations between species in the ecosystem, it is simply that some species eat others. That's just how it works on our planet. Therefore, as a responsible politician, I must now strive to make this food segment as easy for the general public as possible and as affordable as possible. And that's the philosophy I'm trying to follow. According to Dr. Kamila Míková from the Institute of Chemistry and Food Analysis, eggs are even among foods with the most balanced content of nutritionally important substances and with high dietary capacity. The yolk is 100% digestible. Therefore, it would be a damage to the availability of poultry meat and eggs to citizens of our country in any way possible. However, I will also not vote in favour of the ban on caged hens because, as I have already indicated, our country, which is part of the European Union's market space, is not currently the most advantageous time when a full ban could be applied. This, in my view, will occur when the same ban applies and will be required across the European Union, which should be decided by the European Commission urgently. We should not be hasty now, although the intention of the welfare of the hens may seem to be God-like, so as not to harm the man himself in his nutrition as such. In the opinion of the Agrarian Chamber, if the proposed ban were to apply only to us, our breeders would have to close their breeding and then they could demand multibillion-dollar compensation from the state. I said, "Do we have them now?" Couldn't we use these funds more appropriately and efficiently than the simple and in fact completely unnecessary State compensation for proven losses incurred? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear above the sun that, in the case of a ban on caged hens, their meat and eggs will not only become more expensive, thereby limiting the access of a part of society to their consumption, but at the same time the competitiveness of our breeders will be suppressed, as they will be imported here in a short period of time, even to a greater extent than they have so far, cheaper, in quotation marks, cage eggs, for example from Poland. However, imports of eggs from other countries are already damaging domestic breeders, whether they are imports from Slovakia or Latvia, where legislation is even more benevolent in this respect than in our country. And to make sure there's no mistake. The breeding of poultry in classical cages has been prohibited in the European Union since 2012. The classical cages were then replaced by so-called fortified cages, which, for example, have their own laying nest compared to the classic. But, of course, they also continue to restrict animals in a more pronounced movement. There are currently 5 million laying hens in the Czech Republic and 85 percent of these laying hens are in cages. However, most chain stores have already undertaken to end the sale of caged eggs by 2025 at the latest. And even from this, it is justified to assume that this kind of breeding gradually disappears largely and spontaneously. At the very end of my speech, allow me to express and illuminate my approach, which is that we should not codify the complete ban on enriched cages for breeding hens for the time being, but rather it is more appropriate to develop a government-level activity towards the European Commission, which should contribute by its fundamental initiative to creating fair European regulation. However, there could also be new rules in the game towards possible restrictions on imports of eggs from abroad. The European Commission has already received a petition with more than a million and a half signatures, of which 56 thousand of these signatures come from the Czech Republic. This petition requires a ban on all caged livestock. And so the Commission certainly has something to base on. And I believe that the opinion of the citizens of the European Union will also follow, although I know from experience that this is often not the case. However, I warmly agree with the other amendments tabled in the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u17	Thank you, too. Mr David Pražák is next in line. Mrs Jana Krutáková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u18	Good evening. I would like to imagine two amendments in the general debate, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. One amendment concerns, more or less, the definition of a proven method of notification and the shortening of the time when reporting actions with animals, where we withdraw it from 14 days to 7. And the next point is - when selling animals, proof of the origin of the animal must be provided, not just general information about where the animal comes from. The second amendment lays down the minimum amount of penalty for offenses, where the minimum amount of CZK 5 000 is given for one paragraph and the minimum amount of CZK 10,000 is given for paragraph 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u19	Thank you. I will ask Mrs Jana Krutáková to prepare Mr František Vácha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled three amendments to the amendment to the Animal Protection Act, led by House document 4563, which I would like to introduce to you in a nutshell. In this amendment, there is a provision under Amendment No 8, which aims to protect animals from attacks by other animals. I agree with this point. However, I believe that the provision is too strict and would affect enormous numbers of breeders. The slight release of this measure is therefore ensured by my first amendment, which avoids situations where, for example, a dog of a smaller breed attacks a dog of a larger breed, the smaller dog is injured, but the breeder of a larger dog is automatically the one who violated the proposed provision. [[17.40 hours]] The second amendment concerns Amendment 101, and it is ineffective measures against the escape of an animal that should not be punished, because the problem is only the escape itself, and that is only for animals that could be dangerous. In this case, the law does not respect the natural biological manifestations or needs of some animals, such as cats. In my last amendment, I place an important point in the amendment to the law. It concerns the need to inform municipalities about the breeding of an animal requiring special care. Thanks to this condition, at least municipalities will have an overview of what animals are in it, and they will be able to prepare themselves for possible escape of the animal. I will then sign up for my amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u21	Thank you. I will ask Mr František Vácha, Mrs Dana Balcarová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u22	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister here has appointed a list of amendments that came for his agricultural committee, but if I listened well, he did not mention the amendment to paragraph 14a - forbidden activities with wild animals, where it is prohibited to conduct special training for the preparation of tricks and performances in the circus, theatre performances etc. in animals of other wild species born after 1 January 2021. The section mentions that the exception is also for the training of a hunting predator for falconical use. Sokoling has a great and long tradition with us, and it has even been registered in the UNESCO cultural heritage since 2010. However, over the last decades, there has been a wide re-evaluation of taxons on the basis of molecular biological methods, and using these methods, there has recently been an exclusion of the order of the predators from the order of predators, as well as owls are a different order, which means that, as the paragraph is now in the current amendment of the agricultural committee, it is not correct, and I therefore propose in my amendment, to which I sign up, that the exception should apply not only to the hunting predators bred for falconical use, but to the falconies, because it is falconry, predator and owls bred for falconical use, which correctly determines the species that the Falconers can use taxonomically. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u23	Thank you. I will ask Mrs Dana Balcarová to prepare Mrs Jarošová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to my two amendments. One is heading, like several of my previous speakers, to ban caged hens, and so is my amendment in this direction, but it is even more ambitious and is heading towards 2025. It is based on the fact that food chains or trade chains have undertaken not to sell caged eggs in their stores since 2025. I think that's a pretty strong argument. And another argument is based on experience from neighbouring states. We held a round table on the Environment Committee at the end of last year, where we invited both people from the Ministry of Environment and mainly from the Ministry of Agriculture and from the university environment and from abroad. And at this seminar, very interesting data and interesting experience fell. I would like to mention that, for example, we have been informed of the analysis of the economic impact of the legislative ban on the use of caged hens in the territory of the Czech Republic, which was prepared by the Institute for the Sustainability of the Business of Masaryk University in Brno. And according to this study, with the conversion to non-cage breeding, the price of one egg will be increased by 20 to 40 cents, and this will be reflected at least at the end price. So this is one of my strong arguments about why we shouldn't delay and why we can't keep our cages early. At the same time, I am based on the fact that further studies have been published quite recently, or the other outcome of the survey among the inhabitants of the Czech Republic, and more than 80 percent of the population do not want further breeding in cages for hens, and I think that this is a very strong signal for us as Members when we see how many citizens of the Czech Republic do not want it. So I think we should hear their point of view. 80 percent is really a large majority. And the next thing I was leaning on was Professor Hartung's performance at the University of Veterinary, Hannover, which described how Germany was crossing over, or at this point in time, from the cage. And he described some economic data to us, and the fact of how it was passed over, and he said that the Němec were actually dealing with it in four years, completely without subsidies and only on the basis of government loans. And I think that if it goes in Germany, I think it could go in the Czech Republic as well, and we have the time for it, we can have longer. And what's quite important to me is that I think that the Czech hens should know the clear rules for the transition in time, they should know what they're going to get from the Ministry of Agriculture for the ban, for the transition from cage breeding. They should be given clear boundaries to prepare for this in time, and then we don't have to talk about how high the risks are with how bad Czech breeders are and how they are actually going to lose. So that's one of my amendments. And the second amendment is against (?) Punishment of breeding or cruelty of animals in breeding plants and even in legal breeding, which is located in a dwelling, is therefore not possible to control them and there is often brutal abuse and killing of animals. We know it from the media. There are cases that have been described and to which the Czech public responds very strongly. And since it's not possible to affect it at this point, it's not possible to control it in the dwelling, if the breeder or the person with the illegal breeding plant doesn't want it, it's simply not possible, even though everyone knows that something like this is happening there, it's also to be documented in the video, so it's not possible to just go into the household and help those animals and start dealing with the situation. So that's where my second amendment is headed to make it possible to carry out checks, only in case of reasonable suspicion that there is abuse in the dwelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u25	Thank you, too. Mrs Jarošová and Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the animal protection law we are discussing now aims to increase the level of animal protection in the Czech Republic. Its purpose is to protect animals from abuse, harming their health and killing them without reason, even for negligence. Čech love most animals, but there are exceptions, and protection of animals needs to be tightened because of these exceptions. I myself am a breeder of animals and most of our members from the SPD, and therefore we are not indifferent to this issue and we will support any legal protection of animals and its improvement. [[17.50 hours]] I would like to comment on my amendments to this law. The first of these is the prohibition of killing by freezing method without prior stunning. I have noticed that this method is not one of the forbidden methods of killing, and I know that it sometimes happens among snake breeders. An animal just throws food in the freezer alive. Unfortunately, I also overheard the breeder's confession, who killed a sick puppy in this way because she thought it was pointless to go for a vet. Since this is an inhumane and disproportionately painful form of killing, I suggest that it be explicitly mentioned among the prohibited methods of killing. The second amendment is the obligation for breeders to register it in one of the existing private registers within 7 days after the introduction of the chip. I hereby respond to the legal obligation to chip the dog without establishing a central register of dogs where they would register at the same time as this law. The main reason for chipping dogs is the connection with the vaccine card, but also the connection of the dog with its owner. You can't do that without registering. When we ask people to do something and even fine them for noncompliance, we must also offer them the conditions for fulfilling their legal obligation. Therefore, I propose to use existing private registers until a central register of dogs has been established by the Ministry of Agriculture since 2022. I'm not saying it's not ideal, but it's all we have so far. Unfortunately, the central register has been discussed for at least 10 years and we will not move on without it. Although I won't or won't compare cars and dogs, let me give you a little example. Would we allow a license plate to a car without a car register? That's the same logic. My third amendment is to increase administrative sanctions for animal cruelty and other offences, the upper limit of which has not been increased since 2008. The Chamber of Deputies recently approved an amendment to the Criminal Code after a long and intense debate, which significantly increased the rates of penalties for the offence of animal abuse and also introduced a new de facto nature of animal breeding under inappropriate conditions. Following an increase in the penalty for animal cruelty, as a logical step, an appropriate increase in administrative sanctions is offered. In determining the newly proposed maximum level of penalties, account was taken of the maximum levels of penalties for other administrative offences which are less significant or comparable, comparable to the protection of animals against abuse. For the most serious category of offences in the protection of animals against abuse, the applicant has maintained a maximum limit of 500 000, which is lower than, for example, the maximum rate for entrepreneurs for unauthorised use of the eco-label or for breach of the ban on the introduction of cat and dog skin into the European market, namely a penalty of 3 million. So the import of a product containing cat or dog skin is paradoxically six times more severe than the misdemeanor of these animals. For moderate offenses today, the maximum limit is 200 grand. This is a five-fold lower rate than, for example, the violation of the wrongful handling of the birth number, for which the maximum limit of the fine is set is up to CZK million. The non-compliance with minimum standards for livestock farming may have an impact on thousands of live animals. The last of the proposed maximum rates, today CZK 50,000 for minor offences, is twice as low as for an administrative offence consisting, for example, of the failure to issue a vehicle registration certificate by the vehicle operator. There are undoubtedly more serious social consequences to preventing a beast's escape than not giving up a vehicle registration certificate. For the reasons described above, it is proposed for natural persons to increase the maximum limit of the fine for the most serious offences to CZK million, for moderate offences to CZK 400,000 and for at least serious offences to the upper limit of CZK 100 000. For enterprising natural and legal persons, it is proposed to increase the maximum limit of the fine for the most serious offences to 3 million, for moderate offences to million and for at least serious offences to 200,000. The aim of my fourth amendment is to remove dogs and cats from the list of laboratory animals. Nor do I hide that in the future this list could be extended by, for example, non-human primates, as animal testing is very cruel and immoral, and logically an increasing number of calls legitimately for their limitations and maximum efforts to introduce greater use of alternative methods of testing without the use of animals that must become a priority. The problem is that it is the cheapest method and it is for many people business. Why dogs and cats? Most of them are our close associates, living with us in our homes. Lately, there have been drafts of laws for greater animal protection, and our society requires every change for their better life, and I think it has to start somewhere. In addition, dogs and cats make up a very small percentage of all laboratory animals, roughly 4 percent are used very often for the development of new surgical procedures or testing organ transplants and so on, and could be very well replaced for example by pigs that are also used for research. By the 21st century, the practice of an experiment-based industry with defenseless creatures should be put to an end. The aim of my last amendment is to ban the breeding of male and female rodents together in the retail stores of live animals, unless it is for feeding. This means the obligation to distribute rodents in stores by gender. Today it is with the sellers of living animals, especially in the so-called. pets, they just don't deal with it, so it happens very often that although you don't want to buy a pregnant female. Each female should be first covered after the end of the biological maturity, which varies in different animals, and must be in good shape. In the pet store, most of them reproduce each other regardless of their kinship, biological maturity, fitness or problem-free pregnancy and childbirth. There is also a risk of buying one female that we will see unwanted additions at home, for which it is difficult to get a new family, and this causes unwanted multiplication. Regardless of the high cost of veterinary care in the event of illness or bad birth. I just want to tell you that I've heard hundreds of times this is happening here and when people are calling for change to really divide animals by gender in these pets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u27	I also thank you and ask Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared five amendments to this law, three of them have adopted an agricultural committee, for which I thank, and the two I have decided to try to present to the House for consideration at second reading, and I will now introduce you to them. I would have the first proposal, which concerns § 7a, specifically paragraph 3. This Section 7a lays down conditions for associations of legal or natural persons, i.e. I would say, in short, the conditions for breeders, which must meet when selling or donating a puppy under the age of 6 months. They are obliged to keep records of sold and donated puppies and keep them for three years. For others they are obliged to provide the new breeder with information about the current feeding method of the puppy and describe the follow-up care. Finally, when transferring each puppy to the new breeder, issue a copy of the litter register with the indication of the particular puppy transferred, or another document containing the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 5. And that particular paragraph 3 then says that the provisions (a) and (c) which I quoted a moment ago do not apply to shelter operators. So it seems that shelters are exempt from this obligation. [[18.00 hours]] I understand that it is not desirable for shelters to produce puppies and offer them as their important activities to breeders, but it is possible that a pregnant bitch will come to the shelter or a bitch will come with litter of puppies. So it may be that the shelter will simply have to take care of the puppies and offer them candidates to take over, which I believe should meet those obligations that apply to other breeders, and therefore I suggest that this paragraph. 3 in § 7a was removed from the law. Here we are also trying to prevent the abuse of this thing from happening, so that through some shelters, dog breeding plants can try to distribute puppies. It is not an exception that some shelters could then require an adoption fee, which would be equivalent to the price of the puppy at real sales. So that's my first suggestion. The second proposal concerns § 13, in particular para. 2 which sets out the responsibilities of either the keepers of the animal or those who care for the animal found, some wandering, wandering, or abandoned animal, so they must take care of its health and good condition. The notification of the location of the animal to the municipality or the transmission of the stray or abandoned animal to the shelter shall also be deemed to be fulfilling this obligation. And I don't think the village should be excluded from being informed of the animal found and of its transfer to the shelter. It is necessary to follow the wording of the Civil Code when the animal is found, which describes how the village deals with the found thing, which, of course, the animal is in the legal diction. Therefore, I suggest that if the animal is transferred to the shelter, it must be done with the knowledge of the community. So, I recommend, in Section 13, paragraph. 2 after the words "to the shelter," add the words "with the knowledge of the village." How the community will be aware of this, I'll leave it to the implementing regulation. Perhaps it would be best if this obligation were given to the shelter that will receive the animal from the finder and then the municipality should inform about the acquisition of the animal. These are my two proposals, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u29	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. I'm gonna ask my colleagues if they can keep their voice down... There's six of you in here, and you can't hear your own words. I'll read the apologies. The Minister for Foreign Affairs apologizes, Mr Tomáš Petříček, today from 17.15 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Radek Koten from 6 pm for working reasons and Mr Kohoutek also from 18 pm for working reasons. I will ask Mr Petr Bendl to speak in the general debate and Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me, too, to mention some things in the general debate on this bill and, if necessary, to the amendment I am coming up with. Firstly, I would like to mention the principle of dealing with abused animals in the event that the State Veterinary Administration so concludes in its controls. What the law contains today is the fact that the municipality - and now I am stressing in the law can - so when the State Veterinary Administration finds that an animal is being abused, so its solution, it means any withdrawal, taking care of it, etc., it may - need not - a community that is with extended scope, and it goes beyond it financially to a level of 200 thousand. I think there's just a hole in it that when the state finds out there's animal abuse somewhere, it should have the ability to cover the whole cost and guarantee that the abused animal will just get into reasonable care and the state will take care of it in some way before it eventually finds another owner. If we leave it this way in general, then I fear that the purpose with which we have set up this instrument may actually happen, because it will not be an obligation to destroy, that it may happen that the treatment of the abused animal will not happen. And so I ask you to think about this principle, if it is not worth taking into consideration that the state simply guarantees that if there is abuse, there will be an obligation here to intervene and, of course, call to account whoever commits abuse, including the payment of the costs associated with it. Second thing. In the law, we also deal with compensation for fur farms. Perhaps some of you remember who you were there, that the state or parliament decided to ban the activities of fur farms. The debate on the Committee on Agriculture was about whether to compensate or not. I think that most of us, almost possibly all of us, have stated that if the state orders or forbids such a thing, it is obliged to pay the amount that those companies have lost. That's right. However, at the meeting of the agricultural committee, the amount of CZK 185 million was operated, which turned out not to be based on any relevant independent opinions at all, but that this is the amount that was created by some calculation, in part from, I will say, the company that worked out the assessment for one farm, and then some simple multiplying into some amount, roughly CZK 185 million. We, who were informed of this on the agricultural committee, were hoping or believed that when the Ministry of Agriculture said "we support this" that we had some kind of treatment and we knew what we were talking about, that it was simply documented and proven by independent opinions. Turns out it's not. That is why maybe not here, but definitely at the agricultural committee's meeting about how we will vote in the third reading - and this opinion is crucial to me - whether or not to support the proposal, we will want clear guarantees that the state will spend only so much and will give only as much as those firms are entitled to, of course, but not an amount that includes a number of costs that I don't think have anything to do with the merits at all. I would like to point this out fundamentally, because I think most of my colleagues have been convinced that this amount is based on some concrete evidence. It turns out that it is not - I do not want to be rude, but the amount does not correspond to 185 million; it is certainly not the amount that the State should pay as a proper farmer. So please the Minister of Agriculture, before they put their thumbs on anything next time, that it's okay, that he agrees, that they'd rather check it out. Then I have a reminder of the establishment of registers. One of the previous speakers talked about it. A dog registry is something we all know isn't working. And if it doesn't work, then we basically don't have control over what we all want, and that's a restriction on the operation of multiplication plants, and I'm going to say bad treatment of animals with everything. [[18.10 hours]] However, according to my information, and I would like the Department of Agriculture to verify, if necessary, until the agricultural committee's meeting, because I have information that it is actually possible, anyone who can start a register, write their animals in that register, thereby fulfilling the legal requirement, and then delete the register, or somehow get rid of the animals, which may also be something that we should treat, so that something like this cannot happen before the register comes into existence, even if it is all unfortunate. Then, in a detailed debate, I will just apply to the amendment that I will be presenting here. My point is to cross out Section 14 letters. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 5: In the case of selected species of predators and apes kept in interest breeding, it is also prohibited to reproduce or transfer from abroad to the territory of the Czech Republic. The reason is simple. The law itself sets very strict restrictions on breeding selected beasts and apes, see § 14c para. 4 where it is written: Conditions for breeding selected species of wild animals and apes, requirements for construction, security and size and equipment of premises, conditions for housing and requirements for aids, feeding and powering selected species of wild animals and apes shall be laid down by the Ministry by implementing legislation. Other obligations in § 14c, § 13 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (f) where the approval or approval decision for the construction of animals issued by the construction office. Furthermore, the obligations in § 14d, when such breeders are obliged to have a course to care for selected species of wild animals and apes. I am convinced that if a breeder fulfils all these requirements both in terms of breeding conditions and in terms of self-education, there is no reason why he could not raise such animals or import them from abroad, and of course, the responsibility of the breeder is generally that he will only sell his offspring to a breeder who will have the statutory authorisation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u31	Thank you, too. I will ask Mr Pavel Bělobrádek to prepare Mr Josef Kott. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, perhaps we all or many have received a proposal for an amendment from animal protection. I think it's wise that the rates that are really going up, the fines that happen within the framework of not only the criminal proceedings that we've already raised here, if you remember. First it wasn't supported, then it was returned to the Senate and then these rates went up. But it is also important at the moment that not only the abuse of animals but also as regards offences remain behind, nor the facts. For this reason, I have tabled an amendment that is somewhat more moderate than what has already been said here and what has also been proposed for the protection of animals or nonprofits. I believe that it is also important to note that breeders who sometimes get into this situation in situations where financial opportunities do not allow them to take good care of the animals should not be liquidated, should be educational and rather preventive. For this reason, I believe that it is essential to increase these fines. Therefore, I also propose the amounts in the first part of the article. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 12 out of half a million to 2 million crowns. What we received was a proposal for CZK 3 million. From 200 grand to 400 grand and from 50 grand to 100 grand. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Even point 128 is replaced in Section 27 half a million to a million, from 200 thousand to 500 thousand and from 50 thousand to 100 thousand crowns. I believe that this could also contribute to making this increase, which, as I have already said, I consider correct, because if sanctions are increased for a criminal offence, the penalty for an offence should be increased, so it is clear that it must correspond that the amendment has not been here for a long time. That means the increase is logical. At the same time, I think that it might not be increased several times in these cases, that often it is enough to double and similarly these amounts. For this reason, I have taken the liberty of proposing or submitting this amendment, which is inserted in the system as House document 5541, and then I will sign up to it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u33	Thank you. I will ask Mr Josef Kott, Mr Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, allow me, too, to present my three amendments briefly. The first concerns a partial correction of the amendment adopted by the Agricultural Committee. It was Mr Pošvář's amendment, and the point is that if this amendment, as adopted by the Agricultural Committee, number 14 and the related amendment number 51, when the binding housing will be banned completely from 2030, it would pose significant problems especially for studs and studs of the Czech Republic, especially for the National stud Kladruby nad Labem and for the Zemský stud Písek. The first main problem is changing the housing technology in the stables, namely in the case of the National stud Kladruby nad Labem, for a total of 106 horses, because these are in the so-called. Tight stables. The second main problem is that the National stud Kladruby nad Labem is in fact 60 binding stables, which are located in listed buildings, and these are Kladruby nad Labem as a national cultural monument and UNESCO monument, and Slatinany and Heřman's Town, which are a cultural monument. The same applies to the Písek stallion, where the situation is identical because it is a cultural monument. In addition, the monument care authorities require these premises to maintain the original housing type. So that is the first amendment. The second amendment concerns, in fact, the recast of synergies with the modification of the terms and terms in the Animal Protection Act. I prepared this amendment together with the Ministry of Agriculture and corrects conceptual inaccuracies with the amendments adopted by the Agricultural Committee. It is an amendment by Mr Vácha, Mr Jurečka, Mr Pražák and Mr Pošvář, and there is also a legislative remedy so that these amendments are enforceable. And the third amendment, which concerns the modification of the slaughter of animals on the holding, means that there will be the slaughter of a so-called healthy animal, which has only suffered injury, and can be carried out by a person who has received a certificate of professional competence in accordance with the directly applicable regulation of the European Union on the protection of animals at the time of killing. For the slaughter of an animal on a holding, the slaughtered animal must be transported to the slaughterhouse and subjected to a veterinary inspection by an official veterinarian and then the meat of that animal may be assessed as fit for health, i.e. edible or unfit. [[18.20 hours]] The remaining amendments concern the provisions of § 13b para. 2 of the Animal Protection Act and allow the municipality by a generally binding decree to require breeders to register permanently marked dogs, especially dogs marked with a chip, to register and to adjust the particulars and method of keeping records of marked dogs and their breeders. This provision will be made from 1. 1. 2022 to collide with the newly approved modification of the registration of dogs contained in the veterinary law. For this reason, the provisions of § 13b para. 2 of the Act on the Protection of Animals as at 1. 1. In 2002 cancel. [[2022]] By amendment of the veterinary law implemented by Act No. 368/2019 Sb. is the effectiveness from 1. 1. 2022 established central records, permanent identification of dogs and their breeders. This is in brief the presentation of my amendments, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u35	Thank you. Member Radek Holomčík will speak in the general debate. Mr Vlastimil Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to my four amendments to the amendment to the Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse. The first concerns grazing dogs and the exception to the offences of attacking another breeder's animal. As you know, in the media and here in the House, especially on the Committee on Agriculture, the occurrence of a wolf is often denied. As if the most affected part of the Republic is the area of Broumovska, where many sheep, goats and other animals complain of the damage caused by the wolf in the wild. Among the recommendations that the Ministry of Environment has been communicating over the long term, the use of herding dogs is among other things. I think that if we, as representatives of the state, as Parliament, as well as the government, are to be taken seriously by the herders and the people involved, I think that it would certainly be a good idea to meet them in this matter and, in essence, to allow this exception here so that they do not have to worry that if they use the herding dog to protect their herds, then if the dog behaves erraticly in some way, which, in the case of an animal that has some will of its own, one can never guarantee, they will not be attracted by this transgression of attacking another breeder's animal. The second amendment concerns an information obligation in cases where an animal is to be killed at the request of someone other than its owner. These situations tend to be, for example, when an aggressive dog is caught attacking another animal or possibly a human. This obligation would be in case the animal is identified by some means of identification or chip and it is possible to find out who the owner is. Thus, when such an animal is to be put to death, a reasonable effort is made to contact the owner and to know that he is catching the killing of his animal. The last two designs are actually two variants of the same or similar variants. They're about maiming birds. It is forbidden in the law to damage wings in order to prevent the flight permanently, but there is an exception in birds older than three days from birth. Actually, I'm presenting two options for abolishing this exception. The first option says that this waiver will apply to all birds outside the gross teeth, flamingos and pelicans. It is, in fact, a compromise proposal that I propose after consulting the zoo, because it is these kind of birds that are in those open areas or in those open spaces. Here are the surgical steps, and unfortunately I have to call it maiming, to prevent these birds from leaving. The second option, which I find better, is basically a hard cancellation of this exception so that no birds can be surgically crippled to prevent a flight permanently, but I'm pushing it back to 1. 1. 2027, because it is something that somehow touches zoos, and it seems fair to give them time to prepare for it, and possibly to talk about some form of support so that the measure does not fall hard on them. I welcome, in general, when we are talking about measures to protect animals against abuse, if any tightening is accompanied by a longer period of time than the entry into force. It is precisely for this reason that we can prove to livestock farmers, but also to those interested, or also to zoos, to give time to prepare, or, if the situation so requires, to provide some sources of funding, support, transformation of technologies, and implementation of measures that improve the quality of life of individual species. Finally, I would like to comment on one more proposal that my colleague Jan Pošvář and Mr Bendl have been talking about, and these are compensations for fur farms. In principle, I agree with the fact that people who had fur farms should be compensated because, in this case, the fact that, on the basis of Parliament's decision, let's say, from year to year, there has been a hard shutdown of one sector as a whole. So if we want to build some kind of state of law here and an environment that is based on legibility and legal certainty, then I think that such hard interventions into business or the functioning of anything should be compensated by some kind of financial means to compensate for both loss of profit and some other possible damage. I totally agree with that, and I say this from the position of a person who, if he were in the House at the time of the vote, would support the annulment. What I do not agree with, and I am very sorry to say, is the way in which the compensation was set in Mrs Balaštíková's amendment, because it makes me feel that it is some kind of Friday, but here we were, as my colleague Bendl has already mentioned, simply misled, because the figures that are in the proposal were presented, as there is some consensus that it is some kind of qualified estimate, and yet essentially on the part of the Ministry, the only qualified estimate or something that is close to a qualified estimate, are the figures that are in Jan Pošvář's amendment, which was created at the time when the original proposal for the abolition of fur farms was being discussed, and is not marked by any developments after 2017. Although we are here from different tents and we have different views on things, I would be very happy to have some elementary trust at least on the Committees, both between the various members of the Committee and between the Committee and the Ministry. It's just this situation is like a rough patch into this. That's what I'd like to do. Perhaps if the Minister was willing to say a few words, or then we'd say it on the agricultural committee, ideally both. But I think this is really wrong. This concludes my speech and I will sign up for my amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u37	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. Mrs Jana Levová apologizes today from 18.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes today from 18.30 to the end of the day for family reasons. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. I will ask Mr Válek Member to take the floor. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I would take the liberty of briefly - but not valid enough to show that I am an academic and a scientist, after all, I will say some figures, dates and facts that I have collected - to present three amendments. They're all loaded under the number 5000, that's well remembered. One relates directly to the law, one concerns the amendment that was made there. Unlike my colleagues - and I am very pleased because I am not a farmer on that agricultural committee - I have completely mistrusted those figures, and they concern my amendments. This is due to the fact that I have been dealing with grants and various final reports all my life and, in principle, I have a bit of mistrust about some numbers and I am always interested in source data. She wasn't here, but I wouldn't worry about it. I guess it wasn't anybody's evil will or intent, it just came out of some numbers and it was there. That is why, with the help of various experts, I have tried to reach some other numbers and, at the same time, I will present the three amendments that actually concern some calculation. So let's keep this brief, but let's just say - and we're talking about the compensation for the fur animals breeders - let's talk about what numbers we can come from. I don't mean to downplay it, but after all, we've been discussing some sort of compensation for the impact of the covid on the health committee. We'll sort this out from the same perspective. The correctness of these compensations should be in some general logic and in general decency, should take into account cost, should take into account price, should take into account the resources invested in good faith. I do not defend myself against compensation in general, but should take into account the funds invested in good faith, from which the person who put them expected that they would be somehow redeemed, and they were not slaughtered. On the other hand, it is not possible to formulate the compensation in my opinion that one has decided to spend the rest of one's life in business, to estimate his life expectancy, say, 60, 70 years, to calculate that 40 years of business will do, to calculate what profit he could have in those 40 years, and this profit is what the compensation is based on. And I have a feeling those numbers are similar to some kind of calculation. Those people, by quitting their breeding, the fur animals breeders, somehow did not perish, continue to engage in business and, of course, in the breedings and the changes that accompanied the breedings, have put certain funds in place. These were not implemented to the full extent because the breeding did not last as long as expected and in some proportional amount it is necessary to replace this. It must be said that the owner of the largest fur farm in the Czech Republic repeatedly stated that he had invested CZK 30 million in the farm. Thirty million crowns. That means, that would be the sum that, if the fur animals hadn't even started growing, I'd expect them to come back. He invests in the farm, the state forbids him to run the farm by law, so the money sort of comes back. But we have to figure out what he wanted to do on that farm. He wanted to keep 15,000 mink there and, according to the proposal of the agricultural committee, he should receive somewhere between CZK 70 million and CZK 100 million, which is about three times as much as the 30 million he invested. Then it must also be said that the investment was not at the beginning of the law, but several years before that. That means he kept the minks for a while, and thus part of the investment was realized. The investment has some depreciation as in any other business, it has some lifespan. If the lifetime is, say, ten years, five years in business, we're at 15 million that he should get. According to this logic, I have tried to process my amendments. I've been watching because, frankly, I don't know about you, but I don't know about it. I was never quite in a position to buy a woman mink coats, possibly other fur coats at a similar price. I was wondering how much a mink leather cost, and I found that the public market price was somewhere between 540 and 590 crowns. And the market price, the sales price-- that's the purchase price-- the sales price is 730 kroner somewhere. That means the profit that is realised somewhere around 150, 170 crowns. Once again, if you multiply it by 15,000 minks a year, you get to a number. Well, I'm not really indulging in the fact that my calculations and estimates are correct. I'm not a fur animal farmer. It's kind of coming from some calculations, but my calculations are roughly one-third of the design that's there. That is why I am giving three alternative amendments just to be sure. The first proposal is very simple and it is simply a reduction of the amount of 7, respectively 5.5 thousand, to 2, respectively. Four thousand. The amount in mink, in my opinion, was significantly more overvalued than in a breeding fox. That is one of those amendments. The second amendment envisages some amount of annual net income from the animals for fur farming in question over the last five years and concludes from this the amount that should be paid as compensation. Well, the third draft here connects this somehow, and it's actually a change in three paragraphs. I'm still moving in that sum of about 2,000 for mink and 4,000 for fox breeding, and I'm still adjusting § 29 where I'm making some technical changes, like there's a dot missing, and I'm adjusting some of the justifications. And in paragraph 47, in Section 29, then I change paragraph 8 and insert a new paragraph 9, which I dare read. It sounds - because it is probably a bit beyond what I have just explained and justified: "The Ministry may increase the compensatory allowance beyond the value calculated in accordance with paragraphs 7 and 8, if the applicant demonstrates that the amount of the compensatory allowance thus calculated would be disproportionately low in view of the necessary costs for the disposal of the holding and the investment expenditure previously incurred which could be recovered to the applicant as a result of the cessation of farming'. In other words, I've reached two amounts. That one's 2,000, that other one's 4,000. If we accept the amendment only in this text, we are simply reducing the amount and we are done. Then there is a second option, which still regulates one paragraph, which gives the option to either this amount or some profits that were average over the last five years, and it calculates both. Or a third that takes into account the amount I calculated, which I and the experts somehow reached. And I'm also putting in some kind of open option for the Department of Agriculture, and I think it's correct. She's the one who led me to this whole covid debate. Sorry to make a slight turn. But we're talking about some kind of area compensation for certain segments, but those segments are talking about the total compensation. I'll go back to the minks very quickly to explain. Remember, all county hospitals will receive roughly the same compensation for the costs associated with the covid. But all of you know that there were hospitals where sick employees were - the disease spread among employees - I don't know Cheb, Břeclav, and these hospitals were really in real life, two, three, four weeks closed, some departments. And you can hardly account for the extremes based on the mean that it is. [[18.40 hours]] It seemed fair to me in this case, if there's any extreme at those farms, I don't know, some special farm with big costs, or I don't know what, some, I don't know, mink with eight legs, which has a five-colored leather, I don't understand - but I'm glad I'm not wrong yet and I'm still saying that mink is behaving and not growing. So here I gave some space to the Department of Agriculture to take this into account in those cases that would be justified. But once again, there must be a clear and explicit justification to use a foreign word that defines exactly why in this case it should be done differently. I hope, then, that I have perhaps briefly and scientifically justified all three amendments, which I will then sign up to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u39	I also thank you and, with a factual remark, Mr Petr Bendl is registered. Please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u40	I would like to say to my previous speaker's margo that she is taking on the same ice as my colleague Balaštíková when she presented us the amount. I think we need to insist on an estimate of the forensic expert. That it's just public funds. That it is not possible here to simply estimate something from the table that, simply because it is taxpayers' money, we must really have someone's position on it, because it will eventually be signed either by the minister or by someone from his deputy or by a competent clerk with a mandate, so it should simply be clear what the number is, and we should not create it here from the counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u41	Thank you. Mr Válek, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u42	I can only agree with humility, Mr President, by your means with the speaker. Maybe I should've mentioned who the experts I consulted were. I have mentioned here several times that I am a forensic expert in radiology and, if I was in the faculty, the field of forensic medicine belonged to me. So, of course, I, in cooperation with Professor Nečas, who is the rector of the vet, and my friend and friend, approached a couple of colleagues, and informally I tried to find out what they were guessing. And I totally agree with what you're saying. I'd be very happy to get that amount with this calculation on the agricultural committee. However, I wanted to do my own calculation, so I had something to counter-argue. And that is how my amendment is meant. If I get better, more correct and better processed numbers, I will support them in humility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u43	Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have just made sure that I have read this, of course, and I was struck by one thing that I think is indicative of the objectivity of the assessment. I say that a little ironic. The expert's report was commissioned, as far as I know, damage, if you'd like to correct the damages that claim the amount. And we all know that one of the main reasons for the new law of expertise, which standardizes and improves the level of expert opinions to the standard level on the European scale, was that the expert opinions differed greatly and had to be made two to three before the court came to some objectivity. So not only doesn't come out of the expert opinion of the victims seem to me to be criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u45	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl with a factual remark and Mr Roman Sklenák will also be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u46	My colleague, through you, Mr President, he has only been made one opinion and the farms are nine, and one of the farms ordered it. So it's quite obvious that this isn't the amount we can lean on. And whoever signs it at the Department of Agriculture puts themselves at risk of breaking the law and any consequences related to it. And we should, which is why I stressed it here, insist that we simply get the relevant data so that it can be leaned on. With all due respect to my colleague Válek, who did the work, but that's not how it works either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u47	Thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u48	Thank you for the floor. I also allow myself to be involved in this debate, because I was one of those who co-submitted the law that broke fur farms in the last parliamentary term. And, of course, we were already dealing with the question of compensation. And I am only allowing you to quote one sentence from the statement or the legal opinion that Professor Gerloch, who is perhaps an expert on constitutional law, has drawn up for us at that time. And that's mine then. He wrote to us: "Complication should be determined at the level of objectively suffered property loss, which could not be prevented by the available measures, and thus constitutes irreparable damage from the point of view of the breeder. However, compensation is not necessary from a constitutional point of view to determine the loss of profit." That's what I think is crucial to our considerations and to our further progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u49	Thank you. In the general debate, President Marian Jurečka will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u50	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, before I get to the presentation of my seven amendments, allow me to make some general remarks. By the way, the previous debate here about compensation for closed fur farms points to one important thing. If such things, which significantly enter into the business of a particular group of persons, are done by means of parliamentary proposals, this does not lead to good results. We have three years after the ban passed, and the farmers concerned haven't seen a penny. We were then, and I was a minister, so we made proposals, and that last attempt was in the Senate when we tabled an amendment through Senator Šilar. It wasn't accepted. There were some Members who had a majority at the time, believing that their proposal was correct. And it turns out that according to this procedure, it is not possible for someone to take the responsibility to be able to implement the compensation. And actually, we're in a situation where we're going into something similar. There is a government draft of the bill against abuse and even more massively here come the parliamentary proposals that want to enter different areas of business, livestock farming, etc., without being processed here at the government level of quality impacts...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u51	Mr President, I will interrupt you and ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u52	... without processing the quality impacts that it will have on not only the sector itself, but also the prices of products, in this case we are talking about eggs. And most importantly, what I miss most here, and I am the one who is in favour of looking for better breeding conditions for animals, better welfare, but we also have to say when we bring to the breeder a burden that will be in the order of billions of crowns, how these breeders can manage restructuring in their production activity. Because referring only to European funds and the Rural Development Programme is nice, but that is not claim money. This does not mean that any breeder who needs this will receive this support. And that's what I'm missing today. When someone here wants to ban and shift the quality of poultry farming, even though it is, of course, with large question marks, because some farms have shown that there has been a higher increase in mortality, etc., when changing their breeding from cages to open bedding cages, there should be adequate financial support. So I would like to move on now to my amendments, which concern improving the environment for us to be able to protect animals better, animals that are being abused, and it is a problem that has been going on here for several years, when unfortunately some people, breeders, are unable to ensure sufficient conditions and use various loopholes in legislation to continue this activity, abuse and suffering of animals. That is why there are seven amendments. The first concerns the issue of a binding directive, and here the aim of this proposal is to enable regional veterinary administrations to also enable them to have a clear instrument, where regional veterinary authorities can make a decision on the spot, impose a binding order and do not postpone it in days, because sometimes it is about the matter to be resolved immediately and an instrument has been created here. [[18.50 hours]] Then there is another amendment that concerns a situation where a breeder sometimes gets into this difficult situation of life where he does not manage to care well for animals, but he is not the one who would abuse a programmed animal in the long term. For example, he simply had a loss of income and was unable to provide good care for the animal in the short term, yet he was subject to punishment. There was a ban, a penalty to impose a fine, but the breeder would have been a good breeder when the situation improved, but it is no longer possible to review the penalty. There is no need to shorten the penalty against animal breeding in half, etc. So I propose that this be done and that such an instrument be in legislation. This means, as it is in other cases of law violations, where it is necessary to examine the penalty in order to do so on this matter. Then there is another amendment that concerns the question of sanctions, which means that, for the purpose of punishment, it is possible not only to impose a fine and a ban on the breeding or forfeiture of an animal, but also to impose a fine on the more severe penalty itself, both in the area of property sanctions and in the area of preventive treatment. It is therefore necessary to allow municipalities to take into account their interest in preventing the social consequences of the compulsory statutory imposition of disproportionately high sanctions. This means that even what is now in the law, the definition at the lower limit of the rate, can be liquidation for some persons. So let's make this precise and adjusted. Then I come to another area of the amendment, and that is the question of the responsibility of the breeder, where there is so much debate about, for example, the attack of another animal by another animal, and so on, so that these matters can also be examined with a clear view of the workers of regional veterinary administrations, so that, in a situation where we divide competences between two different authorities, we do not exclude the technical expression of the regional veterinary administration to such a specific question as to when the animal is being attacked and what happened, what was the animal's breed and so on, and not simply to say clearly that, in all situations, the breeder can do so. [[Nesroz.]] Then it is an amendment concerning better enforcement of controls in situations where there is a suspicion that there is an animal being abused on the premises, so that veterinary supervision can enter there as soon as, for example, in the case of food surveillance, so that vet workers can arrange access to the premises and do not have to wait for police assistance. And then there is another area that concerns registration, so that there is an exact registration question, and thus for all bitches, and in it each bitch to be clear number of chip, date of birth, breed, date of admission or insemination and date of each litter with indication of the number of puppies, and to be recorded immediately and to keep the records up to date and for at least three years. This means preventing the trend of some breeders, where they have a so-called multiplication plant and have good business, but it has nothing to do with normal breeding and care of the animal. So this is a series of amendments, which I will, of course, then sign up for in a detailed debate. I tried to be brief, even though the subject deserved a much bigger, detailed debate, but because we have until nineteen o'clock, so if there is still room to make some adjustments, so that the point can be negotiated here. This is for consideration, of course, by most coalition MPs. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u53	Thank you. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It's not. So I'm going to start a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. In a detailed debate, I have Mr Jan Pošvář as the first to sign up. Mr Elfmark will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for an amendment which is recorded in the system under number 5515, these are the compensations, and then the joint proposal, which is under number 5525. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u55	Thank you. Mr. Elfmark. Mr. David Pražák will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u56	Thank you for your word. I wanted to sign up for the amendment under number 5118. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u57	Thank you. Mr David Pražák is next in line. Mrs Krutáková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u58	Good evening. I am signing up for Amendment 5121. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u59	Mrs Jana Krutáková. Mr. František Vácha will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u60	I would like to sign up for an amendment held as House document 4563.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u61	Thank you. Mr. František Vácha. Mrs Balcarová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u62	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment under number 4953. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u63	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová. Mrs Jarošová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u64	Allow me to apply to my two amendments, which are recorded in the system under 4966 and 4967.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u65	Thank you. Mrs Jarošová. Mr. Zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u66	Thank you for the floor. I hereby subscribe to my amendments, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. This is a prohibition on killing by freezing method - under number 4082. The obligation of breeders to register it within one of the existing private registers within seven days - under number 4364. Furthermore, an increase in administrative sanctions for animal cruelty and other offences - with the number 5374. And another is removing dogs and cats from the list of laboratory animals - under number 5379. And the last is a ban on keeping male and female rodents together in the retail stores of live animals - under number 5533. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u67	Thank you. Mr. Zahradník. Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u68	Mr President, I am referring to the amendment that is in the system under number 5539.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u69	Thank you. Mrs Valachová. Mr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u70	I would like to sign up for Amendment 5421 by Mr Petr Dolínek. That's how I justify it. The definition of the order of the beast also includes bears and various kinds of dog animals. In the case of full acceptance of the Government's bill, this would mean, for example, that it would not be possible to make a film for children and young people who have the task of training children and creating a positive approach to nature conservation, such as Václav Chaloupka Kuba and Matěj. It would also not be feasible, for example, the series Five Dead Dogs, Rabies or the movie Žižka. This amendment, according to my information, also has the support of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u71	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Bělobrádek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u72	I have 12 amendments, but I will not say them here, I will introduce you to them in detail in the third reading debate. I will just sign up for the House document under number 4389 and House document number 5469.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u73	Thank you. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, Mr Kott will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u74	I sign up for House document 5541.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u75	Thank you. Mr Josef Kott, Mr Holomčík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u76	Thank you for the floor. I subscribe to House document 4982, to House document 5125 and to House document 5404.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u77	Mr Radek Holomčík, Mr Válek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u78	Thank you for the floor. I hereby report to House document 5536. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u79	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u80	Excuse me, I'm filing for House Document 5,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u81	Mr Kolovratník, Mr Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u82	Good evening. I am applying to Amendment 5526.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u83	Mr. Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u84	I am applying to Amendment 4520, 4521, 4522, 4523, 4524, 4526 and 4527.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-016-018.u85	Thank you. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm ending second reading of this press. We had a bit of a race, but we made it right. I'm done with today's meeting. I interrupt the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by Friday, 5 June to 9 o'clock. I remind you, tomorrow, that is. On Thursday, 4 June, we will continue the adjourned 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at 9 o'clock. After its completion, we would open the 47th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which we would end, and then we would open the 14th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which we would also end. Have a good evening.
