ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u1	5. Government bill on special rules for admission to and termination of certain types of education in the school year 2019/2020 /German press 786/ - shortened negotiations We've approved the short-term negotiations. The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course I would like to thank you for being able to meet in such a short time in an emergency to discuss this bill. And of course, it needs to be said from the outset that the adjustments that require a uniform entrance exam and a graduation exam are adjustments where we interfere in a standard way where time limits are shifting, where at the moment I completely understand that medical measures are entering into this, and it is so clear that, contrary to the expectations of children, students, their parents, but also teachers, this is acknowledged by other parameters. But I believe that the parameters recognize at this time, in these weeks our entire society, and that this really is not a question that avoids the other spheres that you are discussing here today and you will be negotiating in the coming weeks. When I was at a press conference after our schools were closed - elementary, secondary, higher professional, of course elementary arts and universities - our pupils and students, it was announced that the Ministry of Health would specify its estimate of the development of the pandemic plan, so that within about 14 days. That's what happened this weekend. My colleagues and I have been thinking very intensively over the last 14 days. And as I'm saying, these aren't variants that would be great and improve the state that's here today. We had other debates about how graduation is supposed to look and if there's going to be a math degree. But he's responding to the situation where you're due on April 8th. And on April 8th, the written exams were scheduled to begin. After many hours of debates and consultations with school directors and with cerma as one to coordinate it from the point of view of the state section, we submitted a proposal to respond to the real scenario presented by the Ministry of Health. As far as the single entrance exam is concerned, we are fully aware that families have long been engaged in preparing their children for the single entrance exam and that any further delays are not appropriate, they are not good. This means that we have tried to make sure that a uniform entrance exam can take place as soon as possible after the schools are reopened, with its content and form not changing in any way and corresponding to the framework programme for basic education. In the school section, the criteria set by the school head also do not change. The single entrance exam in secondary schools for this year - 2020/2021 - will take place at the earliest 14 days from the day of the renewal of the personal presence of pupils on education and its evaluation will be provided, as usual, by Cermat. The uniform examination consists of a written test from the educational field of Czech language and literature and a written test from the educational field of mathematics and its application. For the school entrance exam, if the school principal has already decided to do it, the school principal will announce new dates. The adjustment is that it is necessary to take into account the fact that at one time with a high tens of thousands, or simply a hundred thousand children will issue a graduation, and it is even after the situation will be given from emergency to some emergency, because the standard condition will certainly not be, so also with this respect we have chosen the option, when one term plus the alternate terms, and the result from this one term is, of course, written for the other school, which the pupil and student wrote down. There is also a shortening of the deadlines for handing over note cards and other techniques so as to speed up the process to the maximum. Because, from the perspective of evaluation and from the point of view of carrying out these tests, Cermat is the central player, so the graduations in our proposal start at the earliest 21 days after the reopening of the schools with the fact that the written part of the Czech language and the foreign language for this year is not part of the state section, and if the pupils return to 1. 6, so it goes according to this standard mode. At graduation, we have also put in law an emergency option, which we all hope will not happen, and that is that if schools were not opened for the presentation of our pupils by 1 June, the mechanism would be that students would receive a graduation report based on the results of the last three reports, i.e. if I simplify it: half of third grade, third grade, half fourth grade. The frequent question is, if someone has the average - it was in some articles today, it is, of course, on the Ministry's email, it is one of the most common questions - if someone has the averages worse and would like the grade better, then of course it is possible to correct it in those postponed terms, the corrective terms if someone is not completely okay with it and would like to have the report card for ever and ever. As far as the original proposal is concerned, we proposed to shorten the time to evaluate didactic tests directly in schools by individual teachers, providing schools with a didactic key. After the discussion of today's school committee, there is one recommended amendment that we agree with as the Ministry, and that is that the evaluation of didactic tests in the case of graduation exams will take place through Cermat, in a standard way, with Cermat attempting to shorten the standard deadlines as far as possible, and we are counting on the deadlines to be about seven days. A frequent question was also why it was not used, or why this emergency mechanism is not written into a uniform entrance test. Again. If we have consulted this matter, extremely in the case of eight- and six-year grammar schools, it occurs that if you would like to go to the fact that there will be a testimonial and an average of stamps, or a few last reports should replace a single entrance exam, you will not really get anything, because the overhang of pupils is extremely high and there would not be rare cases where 60 places would compete de facto 150 equal certificates of pupils who also have sports clubs, participation in mathematical and other olympics. So in the finals, it could end in a paradoxical situation, that we could get to the decision of the lot. And unfortunately, that lottery ticket would be probably the most righteous solution at the time. Therefore, it is not possible to use the average from the report card as a criterion that would reliably solve our admission procedures and thus it is not possible to cancel the uniform entrance exams in this year or in an emergency mode. So much for the introduction to the fact that, as I said, one of the variants and the questions is actually directed to the area of, if the averages are worse than what he would get out of graduation, or he expects to get out of graduation, so here I repeat, there's a solution. And the solution, of course, lies in the amending date in the autumn of this year. If I'm going to take the emergency solution of math, if you actually take a number of professional subjects today, or those students who have vocational subjects, I'm going to take the social, I'm going to take the medical, I'm going to take the pedagogical, so today they're doing an emergency practice that maybe is bigger than the practice they would have done at those schools, they're going to be deployed right in that field. So that's also the answer to whether those students are moving somewhere during this time. Of course, they're not preparing for their graduation, but some of them are being deployed directly in the fight against coronavirus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to us as House Press 786/1. The rapporteur for the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports is Mr Karel Rais, whom I am now asking to inform us about the discussion of this proposal in committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u4	Thank you. We have discussed, as has been said, this proposal and I have here a resolution that I would like to read with permission: the resolution of the 33rd meeting of 24 March on the Government's draft law on special rules for admission to and termination of certain types of education in the 2019/2020 school year, House press 786. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga, the report by Mr Rais and after the debate: I. proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies do not hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies hold a detailed debate on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations by the end of the day at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's proposal for a law on special rules for admission to and termination of certain types of education in the 2019/2020 school year (the 786) should give its consent as amended by the amendments adopted, namely: 1. Section 25 of Part Two reads: "§ 25. Point 1. The Centre shall provide the processing and central evaluation of the results of the tests of the common part of the examination, except for the partial tests carried out in oral form. 2. The school evaluates the profiling part of the exam and the oral examination of the common part.' And in section 2 of Section 29 - here is the adaptation: "Section 29 1. For the course of the partial examination in oral form and the examination of the profiling part of the graduation examination, the provisions of § 80a para. They shall apply, mutatis mutandis, Articles 1, 2 and 4 of the School Act. 2. Paragraph 81 (1) (a) of the EEAG is replaced by the following: 6 of the school law applies mutatis mutandis.' V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to: the Committee's opinion was communicated to the Assembly of Deputies; In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, he has made appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u5	I thank the rapporteur and we must now decide whether we will have a general debate. We'll vote on it. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. I'll wait a little bit. [[In a moment:]] We can vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of us having a general debate? [[Postman's notes. Bendy towards the President.]] I declare the vote void, I have terminated it. Yes, the committee's proposal in this case was that there would be no general debate on the bill. This means that we are voting that there will be no general debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[For what?]] That there will be no general debate. And who's against it? In vote number 24, 99 Members registered, for 10, against 36. The proposal has not been adopted and we will therefore have a general debate. I am opening a general debate and, if there are no objections, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, I propose pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 7 to limit speaking time to five minutes, both for the general debate and for the debate in detail. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 25, 98 Members registered, for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Marek the Výborný will be the first to speak in the general debate. Mr. Baxa will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I would like to thank the Ministry of Education first of all, the Minister for presenting the press. I think it is not entirely simple because it actually addresses the detailed provisions of the school law concerning admission procedures and, of course, the termination of education in secondary schools. Basically, for the KDU-ČSL, which I am now performing for, we do not have any fundamental comments on the uniform entrance exams. We have, and some amendments have also been tabled regarding the termination of education in secondary schools of high school graduation, respectively. the final examination. I would like to thank the Education Committee and the Minister here for supporting the amendment that I brought to the Education Committee this morning concerning the evaluation of didactic tests in the joint part of the graduation exam. I really considered it unfortunate - schools that, if we work with the option that the pupils will actually get back to school from 1 June at the latest, so they will deal with admission procedures, but they will solve the school year for the lower years, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and at this point we would still impose on them the obligation to correct didactic tests, notabene in a situation where the school results would still have to be sent back to Cermat. Cermat is not prepared for this or software, so we consider the more reasonable option that the Minister has mentioned here, that is to leave the evaluation at Cermat, even if there may be an extension of the deadline, but it will be in the order of several days, and I think it is still bearable. That is why we consider - and one more argument is very important, and this is also maintaining a greater degree of objectivity in the case of evaluation of didactic tests just on Cermat. So thank you for this support and I would like you to support this amendment, which came out of the school committee and which I defended there this morning. There was a slight oversight, which I will then correct by signing in to Amendment 4639... Sorry, not 4639, but I'll read the number in a detailed debate. In any case, this is a review that we dropped out of the committee's proposal because, of course, it would be illogical if we returned the evaluation of didactic tests to Cermat to keep the review at regional authorities. We're returning it with a simple amendment, I think it's Section 32, back to the Ministry with all the consequences that come with it. It's actually a continuous vessel with that amendment from the school committee. Again, I'd like to ask for your support. It is also discussed with the Minister. The second thing I am giving to consider in this House is the question of the real moment of crisis in the event that the presence of pupils in schools is not restored as of 1 June. At that point, the Ministry, the government is proposing to use those three certificates from the third, respectively. from the fourth year's term. I'm really taking into account the relevance of the graduation report, virtually. I would try to push this crisis solution as far as possible. I am not saying that there cannot be a situation where we would have to do this too. We don't want it. [[16.50 hours]] All of us sitting here, we wish the pupils to attend school by mid-May at the latest. We know that, but of course we can't rule out any variations. That is why it is good that the Ministry remembers the critical moments, too, but I am convinced that we really should approach this crisis solution at the extreme moment, which means now in particular, and it is in the amendment to which I will apply that we should allow the final week of August to take the final exam. I stress - I stress - that I do not really have the ambition here to hold pupils, teachers in schools on vacation, that is certainly not the goal. But we believe that it is possible to pass the graduation exam at the beginning of September. The proposal envisages that it would have to start graduating by 7 September at the latest and the presence of pupils would have to be by 1 September, that is to say, the beginning of the new school year. If this did not happen, then, of course, it would follow the crisis option as it is processed in a government proposal. If pupils joined the school for the new school year, then they would actually graduate at the beginning of September, the possibility of a substitute term at the end of September would be maintained. [[Time warning]] And the colleges would certainly wait for a conditional entry. You'll find everything in detail in the explanatory notes. Thank you for your support. I will sign up for the proposals in a detailed debate. I thank the Vice-President for his patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u7	Thank you. And now it is Mr Martin Baxa's turn, followed with priority by President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party Club, to present our position and also a few comments on this government bill. At a time when the very acute problems of the coronavirus crisis are still being addressed, perhaps there is a little bit of a theme behind how education in secondary schools should be completed and single entrance exams carried out. But, as the Minister has already mentioned, about 100,000 pupils and their parents in the case of entrance exams and an equally high number, or a high number of pupils are eagerly waiting to see how we will decide on how uniform entrance exams and graduations will look. I would like to say that we support the concept of the proposal tabled by Minister Plaga to the Chamber of Deputies. This pillar of uniform entrance exams is certainly correct, it would expose a number of schools, especially grammar schools, to very difficult decisions if they were not, and it is certainly good that this concept has been preserved. On the other hand, there is a very radical solution that concerns math. I am convinced that we can certainly have a big discussion about him. The proposal made here by Mr Výborný certainly has some rationality. But we are at a very difficult time, at a time of permanent stress, at a time when education is currently taking place in a very untested way of distance education, which is associated with a lot of pressure on pupils, their parents, families, so I just think it's good that the school year ends with everything on June 30th and therefore students of the last years, or senior years, know that they just have a graduation certificate, respectively. so that they completed high school studies according to the rules adopted by this law. So much for our general view. As I said before, we support the proposal. However, Minister, I would like to make two comments. One of them is a question, and one of them is an appeal. [[Minister Plaga is speaking with the rapporteur.]] May I ask, Mr. Secretary, if I may? I'm saying I'd like to make comments and appeal. My point and question concerns Section 18 of the proposal. Surely I'm not the first to ask, and that's the possibility of appeal. Maybe there wasn't enough opportunity to explain this in that quick presentation. This means the regime that actually allowed not only to protest at the present time against some injustice or error in the admission procedure, but also served as a way for pupils who failed at some school to get to school another, this Section 18 removes. It should certainly be heard not only by the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, but also by the people who follow this, how the appeal procedure will therefore be dealt with and whether this redistribution mechanism, I would say, will be maintained. Well, that's a question. And I believe that you certainly have an answer for that, Minister. And our fundamental point and our big appeal are related to the uniform entrance exams and not to the so-called failure to do so. the second term. I am convinced that in any case it should be maintained in this extraordinary regime that pupils of ninth grade primary schools have the opportunity to complete two rounds of uniform entrance exams, as is currently the case. There are a number of reasons. The most important thing, of course, is that it is a customary mechanism that actually allows children who actually undergo the first such big test to cope with it by being two terms, and they can use better results in the admission procedure. In that standard mechanism, those two terms take place in a row. I understand, of course, the argument that it is a relatively high concentration of children who go to those schools, but the government bill does count on a situation where pupils are already allowed to be present in the classroom, and therefore a relatively normal regime is expected in schools. So here I think the argument isn't epidemiological, and on the other hand, there is this extraordinary pressure that is being put on the children of this age cohort of the 2019/2020 school year, which should therefore pass only one single term of the single entrance exam, and actually their in quotation marks of the school being and not being built on one single day and one single test. I am ready to support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bartoň, as he has already announced, and I would like to call on you, Minister, to present a revision of this law in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u9	Thank you. Mr. President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, Mr. Dominik Feri will now be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. I would like to thank all those who help, even those students, teachers who take care of their students. But the press 786 seems a little unbalanced for one simple reason - it complicates the entrance exams at high school and basically says that a senior can pass without a graduation exam. I don't agree. In order not to complicate the next vote, I will support my colleague Výborný, because I think his proposal is possible. Everyone who has graduated from high school knows that even those colleagues who failed at the first try could repeat the attempt in September, for example, so that Mr Excellent's proposal is certainly a voteable one and I consider it at least a balance between those who are finishing primary school and who are finishing high school. In addition, at the graduation, and I mean here in the opening speech, Minister Plaga said, the problem is how to average the exam from a professional subject, or from that practice in high school. I don't understand it well enough, and I don't think it's the right move. I think that maintaining the importance of graduation is important both for the school system itself and for certain dignity of the study, although we are in an emergency, but I think that we will no longer have to be in it in August or September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u11	Thank you. It is Mr Dominik Feri's turn to prepare Mrs Hyťhová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u12	Thank you very much for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Mr Minister, the TOP 09 MEP will support the proposal of the Ministry of Education as submitted. It is clear to us that there is rarely a situation where there is a simple solution to a complex problem, and this situation is just one of them. Nevertheless, I am forced to comment on two things that concern communication in particular. [[17,00 hours]] The first case is the communication of a specific proposal as submitted by the Ministry of Education. And that is, we think that the graduation exam should be composed, not averaged. Although we add that the time is really extraordinary, this solution is necessary, it is one of the possible, but yet another solution has appeared here. And he wanted to ask the minister, in his final speech, the final word, to make it clear why it is not possible for the decisive line to be shifted slightly, when they say yes, so the schools didn't open, the graduation exam or the graduation report to be the result of the average for the last three reports. If that's not possible. Because those are the questions we get every day. It's something that came into being here, and that's how I get to the other thing, and that's the limited communication that the Minister of Education has been on the side of the last week or two. Now there's no room for the D.O.D. to piss off, so we can do that in interpellations at a regular meeting. But I wish there were some better communication channels, because people are turning to us too, and students are turning to us. Teachers and directors are also looking for us. They want clear answers that we have unfortunately not been able to give them. So, Minister, I would like to ask you to explain to students who are preparing for graduation, who want to compose it and do not want to be satisfied that it will eventually be averaged to them, and I remind you that we are aware that this is up to the Ultima ratio solution, the most extreme, and that you should please communicate better with us in the future, because we also represent teachers, we represent students, and they are turning to us. However, the TOP 09 MP will support this solution, and we thank you very much for being able to prepare it in such short time, in the gallows time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u13	Have a good afternoon. And now Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will speak in the general debate, and Mr Petr Gazdík will be prepared. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u14	Thank you for the floor. For us, we would like to say that we support these proposals from the Ministry of Education. We also want to thank the Minister, Minister Plag, and all the people who participated in this quick meeting because I think they acted very quickly and within the framework of good for the students. We do not want to reduce the level of education, of course, but on the other hand, we think that it is not good here, as some of the amended amendments have already fallen, to prolong graduation until, I think, September 7th, this has been said. We disagree with this. We want the school year to be completed on June 30th, so that students, pupils, know what they're up to. That is why we will support this proposal as presented by the Ministry of Education. And of course we will also support the option that if the active teaching is not carried out, we will support it to the pupils, respectively. so the students wouldn't have to graduate so this would come out of the last three graders in high school. We think that this is the only possible solution in this critical situation. That's for SPD. And once again, I want to thank the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u15	I will now request a five-minute speech, a maximum of five-minute Mr. Petr Gazdík. Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We find ourselves, our education is in a situation that no one remembers, and this must also be the answer. We mayors and independents consider it the most important thing at the moment to make clear the rules. Even from the discussion that we are having here, it is very obvious that the rules proposed by the Ministry will not be enjoyed in a bit in one part, that someone else will not like it a bit in the other part and that various arguments will be put forward. But what really matters is that our schools, our directors, our teachers and, above all, our students are sure of how it will be progressed, and this has been done by the Ministry in a great way. That is why I want to say that the Mayors and the Independents will support the package exactly as the Ministry has proposed, with a slight adjustment to the fact that, if necessary, we will support an amendment that will allow Cermat to correct graduations this year, and that is a solution that is the least wrong of all bad solutions. I thank the Minister for the Ministry's involvement, as it did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u17	Now, I will ask Mr Lukáš Bartoň to speak, you have five minutes, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u18	Thank you. I'd say a stand for the pirát. We welcome the submission of this proposal by the Minister of Education. He's certainly dealing with delaying his math and delaying his entrance exams, which is important. However, in the whole proposal we found a few minor disadvantages and possible risks. We discussed these reservations on the school committee, and I tabled two amendments. One was about the students going to... Mr President, you have heard from above.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u19	I'm sorry. I'm talking to the director of the organizational department. I'm dealing with another procedure here. I'm sorry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u20	Students who go to the entrance exams this time will have only one term in which they can do this exam while the standard are two dates; and while the whole proposal goes beyond that in terms of simplifying conditions, reducing claims, it comes to students, so this is the only thing where the proposal goes against students, tightens up, limits. We are of the opinion that in the critical situation in which we are, we should not go the way in which we restrict students, when we take away their options. That's why I suggested if the terms couldn't be two. At the same time, I understand that this will be administratively difficult for schools, and this proposal has not been passed in the vote of the Education Committee. Nor did my proposal go through to preserve the possibility of an appeal that students have at standard times, but is no longer in this proposal. However, here I was assured by the Ministry that there is a different tool, both for students who are footnotes, to allow study at that school. However, even here, I would point out that even 1 per cent of the proposals that are justified are people behind this. And we're taking away their repair options. Of course, he's still in court, but I don't know if anyone's in the mood to sue and demand an appeal before a court of law. For this reason, I propose an accompanying resolution. Since the amendment was not legislatively well prepared, unfortunately, we had one night to do this, so I propose an accompanying resolution in which we call on the Government to ensure that, in the context of the exceptional situation and non-standard conditions for the preparation of pupils, the second term is possible in the context of the entrance exams at secondary schools. I'll make a brief statement on the maths. Granting graduation to all on June 1st, if there is still a state of emergency, is a bold decision. We have been discussing this for a long time and we have not come to a better decision, I must say, but we do not see it as a good and only possible deadline on 1 June. In our opinion, we could do it later, so that graduations could still be composed during the holidays. That's what I was discussing on the school committee, whether or not to move it by one month. At the same time, I say that this September, which is proposed by Mr Výborný, seems too much to me. Those students should know at least by the end of the school year how they're doing. They should know how they are by the holidays. Not wait for the holidays. Thank you for your possible support for this resolution, but when I get back to my math class, I would warn against it actually holding on June 1st and giving graduations automatically to everyone, even though they can still graduate in the summer. It is not so much a common part of graduation, it is not so much a gymnasium, it is a general education, it is a secondary vocational school and their profiling and apprenticeship courses and their final exam because there is this final exam profiling and qualification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u21	Thank you, too, for keeping the time precise. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be the last to speak in the general debate. I don't see anyone else yet. Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me, too, speak for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. First of all, I would like to thank all teachers, teachers, parents, pupils and students who have been working together in these weeks to ensure that the quality of education is still high and that all children, pupils and students concerned are able to complete their classes. I would like to welcome the fact that we, as Members of Parliament and Members, are dealing with this proposal in a legislative emergency. I'm glad he's here because for high school it was the last chance to know how to go on, what other paths will be taking entrance exams and graduation exams. Let's say that the imaginary red line was 31 March, so given the date on which today's extraordinary meeting is, it is clear to you that it was actually the only way for this House to discuss the direction it was going to. Thank you for that. Colleagues of Ministers, the Minister for Social Democracy on Government supported this government proposal precisely so that everyone would have the direction to go as soon as possible from the point of view of entrance exams and maths. Members of social democracy, although there are coalition parties, were, of course, much like all the rest of you, colleagues and colleagues, in this time of legislative emergency, we are imaginaryly equal, so we have also been familiar with the proposals during tonight. I would like to say that I am, of course, prepared to support this proposal as a whole in order to calm the situation in schools, in families, but with regard to the opinions of the professional school associations, which may be surprisingly identical, we will also support some adjustments which will subsequently be recorded by colleagues here at the speaker's counter. It leads us in particular to the fact that we want everything to go perfectly and that those who will subsequently carry out the entrance exams and graduations, i.e. The school directors had rules that were not only right, but that they understood and could implement them, so that everything would go smoothly and correctly. When I talk about professional school associations, I mean the Union of CZESHA, the Association of Gymnasiums and also the Association of Apprentice facilities. I would also like to thank these educational associations for paying great attention in the last 24 hours to give us feedback from Members and Members. This was also done by dozens of parents, students, and school directors on social networks or emails. I guess I'm not alone, esteemed colleagues, who have received such information from the field. On this basis, we want to support these expert opinions, which, as I have already said, are rarely consistent with the fact that didactic tests in these extraordinary maths, particularly modified maths, have been corrected by Cermat this year and that the profile part of the exam is in schools. I am pleased that the Education Committee has supported this across the political spectrum and, of course, thank you all for this. We will also support the amendment that Výborný spoke of from the perspective of the review procedure, so that everything works in practice. We will also support this amendment. With regard to the opinions of the professional school associations - I mentioned all three of them here, they are the official positions of the presidents of these organizations - we believe that we cannot hear, even if we are in a legislative emergency, we will therefore also support that the date of June 1 will move forward so that this year's seniors will have the chance of passing the graduation exam, albeit in an extraordinary regime, but to make it a graduation exam. Otherwise, I won't repeat myself, even if I have a little time left. I thank my colleagues for the previous performances, I sign most of them with blood, and I believe that our joint work will ultimately make school directors, pupils and students and parents happy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u23	Thank you. I'll look around to see if everyone who's been interested has come forward. I see you do. I conclude the general debate and ask whether there is an interest in the final words by the Minister and the rapporteur. Are you interested in the final words? You don't. Interested? The Minister is interested. Minister Robert Plaga will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been asked a few questions, so I don't want to leave them unanswered. The one that was repeated with Mr Feri and Mr Baxa was about the appeal. The institute - if you were going to ask how it would of course be decided at the moment of those who are footnotes, this would be the case, a new decision will be given by the author. [[Nesroz.]] This means, although it is not the standard institute of appeal, this law introduces and is an institute of special decision. That is, if we're talking about the standard reasons that someone's a footnote and it's being repositioned because someone doesn't give the registration tickets, it's being treated in this law and it's being dealt with in my opinion for the benefit of the students. The difference between Mr Baxa and I is that 100,000 people wandering in space. I am of the opinion that by the fact that there is still the school section, and I understand, of course, and being standard terms, no one questions the two terms, but I stand by the fact that the one term is correct in the state in which we are likely to be in in the coming weeks and months. The last thing I should have said is why the graduation is or why there's an emergency for graduation as a whole. If you look, some of the statements are that actually the stamps, I've already said it here, don't match how the student succeeds in graduation. I really think it's an emergency instrument, I think it's necessary for us to also, given that we're dealing with a link to universities here, so I'm convinced that we need to give it some kind of clear order. And the clear order says that if schools open up, as is now assumed, they're going to be graduating without writing parts. If they don't open up, this instrument, which, yes, is an emergency, but if you take that people really should wait until September to get their graduations, then it's transferred to college, and at the same time, in the case of those who want to go to work and practice, so if we're going to start production back, then they're going to go to those places. And I'm really worried that if you put the deadline on the second half of September, those people aren't gonna come to the graduation because they're gonna be in those businesses they're gonna get into after the production starts. So many more arguments that didn't come out here that led us to an emergency solution that I firmly believe will not happen. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u25	That was the Minister, and I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. There are two Members who are applying for the floor. I am the first to call on Mr Marek the Výborný to speak and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to point out that these were really gallows terms that I don't blame anyone for, but it wasn't anyone's fault, but overnight, because sometime around 6:00 p.m., the print 786 appeared in the system, so we worked on it overnight. I would like to thank many of the high school directors, the representatives of the associations, and finally the founders with whom I have consulted these matters. All the amendments that I'm going to read here and apply to are actually based on field consultations. Thank you so much for this feedback. She's important to us. Please, let's work with this element as well. I do not want to continue to develop this debate here, because, of course, there are other arguments that would support what the directors and associations say, for example. I therefore sign up for the amendment under number 4647. It is mentioned in Section 32, i.e. a supplement to the amendment which has been passed by the Education Committee and which returns the review logically to the Ministry from the regional authorities or from the regions. [[17.20 hours]] I also apply to the amendment, which is in the system under number 4639. This is Section 23. I will ask briefly to justify this, because I did not get to it in the general debate. This is again an option for school directors, if they have announced a two or more forms of examination in the profiling section of the exam, in a situation where they did not know that we would be in this crisis situation - because we all expect that it will be possible to do all of this in June, as it is planned, and we will not have to go to those marginal measures - so that they can, not have to, but can change this decision by their decision within 15 days of the entry into force of this law and choose only one form within the specific test in the profile section. It's a request from specialized schools. Once again, this would make it easier to administer and perform the test in a situation where the combination of multiple forms would, of course, be possible and even justified under normal operation. Here, the director could, not have, choose only one form. I mean, the House press is 4639. And the last amendment to which I am referring is read under number 4616. There is already mentioned shift of the crisis measure, which the Government and the Ministry have put into the draft law in case the new school year could not start as a standard from 1 September 2020. That's what I've been explaining in detail. Once again, I give your discretion and support to this proposal. Finally, let me thank mostly all teachers, school directors, because - and I want to stress this - forget that teachers are on vacation. They really aren't. In their own experience, from communicating with their own children's teachers, I know it's actually more difficult for them than if they were standard school teachers. It could be something positive, I'm sure. The minister was right here about the competences that pupils can adopt in a completely different way at the moment, in a completely different way, and thank God for that. On the other hand, let us not really succumb to the illusion that teachers are on vacation. They don't. And I thank them very much for their approach to this critical crisis situation in the vast majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u27	Thank you and Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will now speak. I don't have anyone else logged in yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u28	Thank you. I would like to sign up for the accompanying resolution that has been calling on them. This is an accompanying resolution, House document 4634. This is a simple resolution. I will say it, it is one sentence: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government in connection with an exceptional situation and non-standard conditions for the preparation of pupils, ensuring the possibility of a second term in the context of the entrance exams at secondary schools. [[to:]] Reason, one more time. I don't really agree with the Minister here that that one term is the best. It is about balancing whether it is important for us whether pupils can have two terms or whether schools will have less administrative work with it and it will be easier to do it in the regime or other aspects. I prefer to say that we should leave the standard of two terms that students are used to, who have it and who should have it in standard situations. I therefore propose this accompanying resolution, in which we ask the government, namely the Ministry, to prepare legislative change and to allow those two deadlines. While I have already tabled an amendment on the school committee, I have been brought to the attention of some legislative shortcomings and, given that we have been working on this overnight and have not been able to complete it in a high-quality legislative proposal, we have chosen this accompanying resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-005-005.u29	I, therefore, conclude a detailed debate. I ask again whether the rapporteur and the Minister are interested in final words. You're not interested in the final words, so I'm interrupting this press until we discuss all the second readings that are on the agenda today. We will now proceed to the point.
