ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-002-019.u1	19. Government bill on international cooperation in the resolution of tax disputes in the European Union /German press 544/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-002-019.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the draft law on international cooperation in the resolution of tax disputes in the European Union. The main objective of the bill is to provide another procedural instrument for taxpayers to resolve disputes in the interpretation and implementation of double taxation agreements between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in the form of arbitration proceedings, as enshrined in the European Union Directive. Double taxation agreements allow taxpayers to contact the competent authority regardless of the remedies provided for by national law, in the Czech Republic it is the Ministry of Finance or the General Financial Directorate, in cooperation with the foreign competent authority or. unilaterally determined, respectively. determine how, in the case at issue, a double taxation treaty is to be applied. The maximum period of three years for reaching an agreement by those authorities will be newly set and the taxpayer will have the right to require the panel's provisions with independent experts to assess the case if the competent authorities do not agree to resolve the case. In the event of failure to act by the competent authorities or panel of experts, the taxpayer will also be able to appeal to the court. The European Union Directive responds to the fact that in some of the other Member States of the European Union it is problematic to reach an agreement to deal with the case, such as due to time delays, not allowing access to the Institute to deal with the case by agreement and so on. The bill transposes the European directive and does not depart from it or go beyond it in a fundamental way. Originally, the proposal was presented in a broader form as a general regulation to deal with cases by agreement under international agreements, but it was withdrawn from this intention after its discussion by the Legislative Council of the Government and after negotiations with representatives of the European Commission and other Member States. The European Directive contains a considerable number of interpretationally complex places to be clarified at meetings with representatives of the European Commission and other Member States. There was a delay in preparing the final proposal. However, this is a matter which must be addressed as uniformly as possible in all Member States. Therefore, priority has been given to negotiations on how the single procedure under the directive is to be applied and to await clarification of the position of the other Member States. According to information from the Ministry of Finance, other Member States were also waiting for this clarification. In other Member States, too, there has been a delay and only a net transposition of the directive has been made. The existing means of solving cases by agreement under international agreements shall remain unaffected. The newly proposed procedure will be a parallel option for the taxpayer, and therefore only in the situation of problems within the Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately, the transposition period has already expired on 30 June 2019 and therefore the effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the 15th day of the first calendar month following the publication of the Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-002-019.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Iva Kalátová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-002-019.u4	Hello, everyone. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The content of the Government's draft law on international cooperation in the resolution of tax disputes in the European Union, which is the transposition of the Council of the European Union directive on tax dispute mechanisms, was described in detail by the Minister. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate that this proposed legislation brings new legal instruments of protection to taxpayers who are tax residents of a Member State of the European Union and who feel affected by the issue in the interpretation and application of double taxation agreements between Member States of the European Union. According to this proposal, taxpayers will be able to initiate a harmonised procedure in which the issue concerning the interpretation and application of double taxation contracts and, where appropriate, assets will be dealt with, and at some stages of the procedure, they will be able to request the establishment of a panel of independent experts who will deal independently and impartially with the problem. As has already been said here, there will also be a new deadline for these institutions to reach an agreement. According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft law is in accordance with constitutional order and fully compatible with European Union law, the caselaw of the judicial authorities of the European Union, as well as with the municipal principles of European Union law. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you for the release of the proposal for second reading and, as a guarantee, I propose a committee of budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-002-019.u5	I'm opening a general debate that I don't have anyone registered to. When I look around the hall, I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? You're not interested. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see anybody, so I'm gonna call the Members to the Chamber, I'm gonna go on. I've got an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out, and everybody sign up with your voting cards. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 84, 139 Members registered, for 137, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see anyone, so this is the end of the discussion. We'll move on to the next press. This is about
