ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u1	1. Government bill on compensation for persons providing paid health services taking into account the impacts of the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020 /German press 868/ - shortened negotiations I shall request the floor of the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, who will present the proposal. Thank you, Mrs... [[Attention from the diaper.]] Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. I thought we'd already made up our minds. I'm sorry for the mistake. Before discussing this government bill on compensation for persons providing paid health services taking into account the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020, we need to decide on a shortened negotiation, in accordance with § 99 para. 5, when we assess the conditions, whether there are conditions for discussing the above draft law in a shortened hearing. I am opening up a debate on this, and my colleague, Mr Svoboda, is reporting whether there are conditions for abridged negotiations with this press. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the Minister for the draft law, which is certainly going in the right direction. Health and all health professionals and healthcare workers were put in a position by the government's decision on the coronavirus crisis where they were not allowed to work and make money. I understand that, and it is certainly right that the Minister is looking for a solution to this matter. But the solution to this is relatively very complex. The field of health is extensive, it has many units that are often different, whether it be preventive care, whether it be medical care, whether it be emergency care, rescue, let it be pharmacies. These are all things that had different conditions, and all these things need to be considered very much. I would take the liberty of referring to the words of Secretary Schillerová, who said a moment ago that it was a mistake that the last law could not be discussed because there are many things that would be worth finding a good solution for them. That's one side of the thing. We have no basis for this, and we do not know what the Minister will decide. We don't know any conditions, we don't know the extent to which they see it, we only know the good intentions. On the other hand, I don't understand what kind of emergency is here. All health care is paid by the backup system. And from the statements of insurance companies, we know that they will pay up to the end of the year according to the agreed advances, that is, at the level of the previous year's prices. So there is no reason to make us decide quickly. In fact, we have time for this, in general, by the end of the year. And even further, because the insurance company is unable to calculate those results before ever at the end of January, early February. When he calculates it, he will say, this facility, this pharmacy, this psychological service has such a loss, and there is time for us to have a decision that the Minister is now wise to propose that we say how it will be dealt with. There are several solutions. Either it can be said that some percentage of the implementation of the planned whole will be considered 100%, or it can be said that the price list will change. It's all possible. The easiest solution is to define otherwise the component, which is considered 100%, but the decision on what it is, this should be supported by very serious and fundamental discussions, especially so that we don't forget something. The worst part is helping someone and helping someone who's in the same problem isn't helping at all. I therefore very much warn against adopting this in a crisis decision-making system. Again, nothing will happen by the end of the year. All facilities, outpatient, bedding, pharmacies - all paid on the basis of some pre-defined volumes. Every month, the medical centers get information that they've reported so much and so much and that they're getting - and there's a sum written that's one-tenth of what they have planned for the whole year. - You don't have to shake your head, colleague Kasal, that's right. [[14.50 hours]] That's why I'm asking, we want to decide something that we don't know about, how it's gonna work, if it affects everyone, if there's gonna be a rescue service, well, if it's gonna be psychologists, well, if it's gonna be pharmaceuticals in some form, because even they're dependent on how many recipes they've issued with the code of the recipe, and it's their essential income, especially the essential income of small pharmacies. Therefore, I very much ask you to consider this matter. I know most things are decided in advance here. But this is the thing where it makes me really talk. I understand health, I do it all my life, and I do it in all areas, in the hospital area, in the outpatient area, and in the theoretical area. Believe me, there's no rush. I understand everyone wants to make sure they get paid, but I'm good enough, or the ODS is enough for us to have that theoretical promise from the minister that he's dealing with it and that he wants to deal with it this way. And the only thing that matters is that this solution is factually correct. And I say again, we have no basis for what this decision is going to look like. Without wanting to do anything to anyone, if we vote at this stage, nothing will change. And the decree issued by the Ministry will be absolutely binding and we will not be able to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u3	I thank my colleague Svoboda, now with the factual remark of David Kasal. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Docent, through Mr President, I do not question your professional erudition. But unlike you, for the last ten years, I've been doing case management and counting economics. And I don't know what it's like in faculty hospitals, because that's where you pay not only from the insurance company, but also from the ministry, but in all the other hospitals you have a corridor where you have to meet a certain number of case mixes. It's a number you have given and you have to do it every month. And that's a certain amount of money. If you don't do it, you're going to be 80 or 70 percent, which is real now, so you're not going to get the money. That's how it is. So fill in your economics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u5	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The Minister of Health claims priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have to respond to Mr Svoboda, and I cannot agree with his opinion. We prepared the law so quickly to ensure the stability of Czech health care. Today, of course, the nervousness that is within individual segments is enormous. And it's not like they're all being paid backup. There are performance-paid segments that already have liquidity problems based on the fact that they simply do not know how to deal with the failure of the production, it also applies to the spa, etc. So I think that the law really is absolutely essential so that we can issue the so-called law on its basis. Compensatory decree. It is the same as in the Public Health Insurance Act, where the Ministry of Health is authorised to issue a payment decree. We know we can't change that, she's already here, and we need authorization to issue that compensation decree. And I agree that this is very complex, that this concerns all segments of Czech health care. We don't want to forget any segment. We are discussing this with health insurance companies, the Board of Providers has sat down where all the representatives of the individual segments are, so the debate is definitely ongoing, but the entire health sector is expecting the law and compensation decree to be issued by the end of June so that they can have legal and economic certainty so that they can plan their budgets so that they can know that they will receive money for health care workers, because there is an increase of about CZK 5 billion, and that will also cover the money for first-line health workers. So we can't wait till the end of the year, 'cause then the hospitals pay their fees and they don't get the money for it? I don't think that's how it works. So we really need to approve this in a fundamental way now in order to give health professionals and health care stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u7	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact. Or with priority rights? Well, with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u8	First of all, by your means to Mr Kasal. Take your word for it. Really say such an arrogant tone to my honored colleague: complete your economic education. [[He's doing a speech.]] You may have a different opinion, I fully respect that. That's what it sounded like. Don't be mad at me, it was too arrogant. You could say, "I have other experiences, I have a different opinion," that's perfectly fine, I certainly wouldn't perform. You can play the words, you can look at the footage, it wasn't fair to Mr. docent Svoboda. And I'm not an expert in funding health care to judge you now, who's right, I'm not getting involved in this debate. However, the Minister, with sovereignty of his own, says that we need it. Mr. Doc Svoboda's offer wasn't for the rest of the year. He actually called for a proper legislative process which can be, if the agreement and agreement of experts are much faster than by the end of the year. On January 28th, the Minister made a similar stand - we have drapes, and the drapes don't work so much, don't panic. Minister, look, I know you'd like to forget that you had an excuse - that's when I thought so, and then I was surprised. But you refused to debate properly anyway, and I could quote you from the stenographic record, even as you questioned the effectiveness of the drapes, as you laughed at me when I was performing in some debate that somewhere abroad they were measuring temperature. You've been making an uninformed person out of me to get the police to measure the temperature in a few days. That's when you laughed at me when I said it on the microphone, and I just asked, I didn't suggest that because I'm not an expert. - Excuse me, what temperature measurement? - To announce at the press conference that it will be measured by our customs officers at the border. Likewise, with the same sovereignty, the Minister says that if there is no emergency on 18 May, there will be trouble in the Czech Republic. I was at those meetings, politically and with the Home Secretary, when we were painted in black and blackest colors, what would happen on May 18th. We can tell each other tonight. Everything before was speculation. Nothing happened, Minister. Although between May 17 and 25, when you painted the devil on the wall, that eight days you would not have something that would happen as catastrophic as it would be, nothing happened because the citizens are disciplined. We told you that before May 17th. Well, look how you guys did on May 10th, what's gonna happen on May 18th. And today, with the same sovereignty, without being able to judge, I admit, the subject of the dispute, I can't do it, it's so slammed that it's rejected, by that - complete your economic education. The professor also managed something in the course of health care, so some respect, I don't say harmony, but he certainly deserves respect. And what would be the problem if we discussed this properly? What's the problem? Does the Minister remember how he needed the laws that eventually fell under the table? And nothing happened. And equally vehemently, with the same sovereignty he says - it must be in a legislative emergency, doctors abroad, etc. I could name the cases. I don't want to go back. Here's a request, I asked my colleagues how there was a debate on the Health Committee, whether it was - everyone against Mr. docent. Svoboda that everyone else is happy with the bill. According to the information I got from my colleagues, and you're members, so it wasn't that simple, you said yourself there that something was forgotten, it's not premeditated, it's not premeditated, it's a decree, it's a reason... According to the information I have, such a substantial argument for the adoption of the law that it will be available by Friday by decree or draft decree. Do we have him? We don't have him! And once again we hear - you must today, now, or something will collapse. It's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u9	There are two factual or one factual. Before I give the floor to my colleague David Kasal, I state an apology. Since 14.40 Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes. Now David Kasal's point of view. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, I'll just take a moment. If it was a gateway and it was supposed to sound arrogant, then, of course, I'm sorry about that, I'm saying that publicly. But as far as the subject matter is concerned, it's really about that. Not only in our region, I got a question from Liberec. It's about those hospital directors hiding how the money's gonna be, because the money really goes monthly, goes into some kind of payment, but it's influenced by the performance that it is. You have doctors and sisters there, you have to pay for them. So if you have less power, you don't get the money. That's why there's this arrangement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u11	Thank you. Even my colleague Maříková with a point of fact. Will Dvořák report to the debate at the point or to the legislative emergency? After. Mrs. Mrs. Maříková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think what's going on here is that the Minister has promised us on the Health Committee that we will get the draft decree by Friday. And what he wants from us right now, as my previous speakers said, is that he wants us to actually sign a blank check here to approve something we don't even know what he looks like. And that's the whole problem. Don't be mad at me, I wouldn't sign anybody's check, I wouldn't approve anything I don't know what she looks like. 'Cause then how am I gonna plead that I don't agree with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u13	Anyone else reporting for the debate? Reported - Mr. Svoboda Member reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u14	Believe me, Mr Kasal, through Mr President, I know very well what you are talking about. I know what case mixes are. I know that entire sections are not paid backup, for example, labs, but it's just one of the things that says how complicated and different this thing is. And it's just a thing that says, don't decide that ex abrupto, at one point without knowing about all that stuff. Let's talk about it. The time we're going to take isn't gonna do anything to these hospitals. I guarantee it. Because the time we're going to take is how much? Will it be a month? Nothing really happens. And we will, I don't want to say guarantee, but at least it feels good that we've done everything we can to make sure that those who need our help get it. This is just not funny. There's no way medical is funny. Health care should have collapsed several times. It always lasted in some form. But why should we contribute by making inaccurate decisions? I'm not saying the direction is wrong, the direction is very good, but it needs to be worked out so that it really becomes good. That's all I want, nothing else. And if it's a case mix, or if it's a backup, of course, big hospitals, faculty hospitals, small hospitals, private facilities are paid differently, but we keep it all in one pocket and we don't know the implementing decree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u15	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Vojtěch and Mr Válek are entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly do not want to be sovereign or arrogant, but I would just like to remind you, and it is necessary to look at the minutes of the Health Committee that it has been ordered to submit a decree within 14 days and not by Friday, so I would just like to point it out, it is in the minutes of Tuesday's session of the Health Committee, so let us just build it for sure. But it's not about my sovereignty or my unsovereignty. We're here to bridge the huge outage of production that has occurred in the health sector in all segments. It's not just hospitals. These are all segments. And I see the enormous nervousness that is in health care, even from hospitals, what will be the target production of this year, if it is 80, 85 percent. Yes, that's what we're discussing. It's been discussed with insurance companies. This, of course, is very important. But they need to know as soon as possible. And I'm afraid that if we're going to discuss the law here - and it's not even in the law, it can't be written this exact way in the law, there can't be formulas, there can't be a question of production, there's really only the general authorisation, some basic principles, but the details as well as in the case of the payment decree, and that's how it works every year, and that's certainly what everyone, even the Donate of Svoboda, has to know every year, is issuing a payment decree for such authorisation in the Public Health Insurance Act. And this is nothing else. And the goal is only to bridge the production outage, set the certainty of what providers can expect, but at the same time to give them the extra money to pay health care workers, the cost of protective equipment that they will definitely have in the next period. And that's very important. So it's nothing but stability to me. I'm afraid the more we drag it out, and we're still not gonna think of anything in that direction, because in that law, it won't say how much money you get, it's not like that, so we're not gonna think of anything new in that direction. We need that law so we can make a decree. I am prepared to submit it to the committee, as imposed by the resolution of the Health Committee, within 14 days. I'm sure we'll do that. That's where we can discuss it. But if we don't have the law, I can't issue a decree. The law empowers the decree to be issued. If there is no law, there can be no decree and there can be no stability for health care and for individual providers. That's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u17	Thank you. Mr. Stanjura's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u18	The Minister keeps forgetting that our Parliament has two chambers. If you really want this to go smoothly and quickly, don't forget we have two chambers. You can use force today. By the way, Minister, according to the standard legislative rules at the time of the presentation of the law which implies the authorisation of the Government, the draft decree is to be included in the presentation report. That's not something Members would think of. You should know that by now. You've been in that government long enough to know that these are standard things, government rules, your government. Where's the draft decree? We know you can't release it until there's a law, until you have the authority. So if you want to help smooth course and debate, and our experts are ready for the debate and we don't have to use the deadline between first and second reading, then you can give us a pass or you can accommodate the experts who see the problem, and let's discuss this normally. And let's talk about, for example, going to the Senate by the end of June. And if it doesn't come back, we won't actually lose any time if you take the time limit that the Senate has and which we have afterwards. And how do we score? We've discussed about seven out of 380 points this week, and we've been here since I can't see to, or maybe ten. It was election points, three or four in a minute. That's what I was gonna ask you about the debate. You're actually telling us to approve, and then I'll show you what the draft decree is. But the legislative rules of your government speak exactly the opposite. Well, then tell your legislators at the Ministry to wake up. We're not March 15th. We're already at the end of May. We could go back to the standard legislative rules of the government by now. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u19	Thank you. Now in the debate, Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u20	Thank you. I was prepared, so I recommended to the club that we support the short-term negotiations. And now the discussion is easy to modify. I would ask very much, because it's all true what's going on here. The law is general. I can't imagine anyone voting for him because there's a vote to be taken. And it's all about whether we know the text of the payment order before we know it, or whether we don't know it, and we're gonna give the Ministry of Health a free mandate, whatever he wants in the payment decree, which isn't entirely true, because, of course, segments and so on are arguing. But in very general, remember, we voted here on farmers' certificates, stating that Minister Toman has promised that the decree will clearly state that the certificate is not mandatory. I was just checking to see if the decree had come out. It didn't work out, but I don't care, it doesn't bother me, I'm at peace with my destiny and my future. That means, I wonder what's practically going to happen, the one of you who knows, if you could say so, so that I can make a better decision, when the hearing would be done properly, even as soon as possible, what happens if it goes hand in hand with the decree. The concrete thing that happens is that it happens, and when we really all guarantee that we want it, we support it, we have to accept it, we realize it, and we want it to go hand in hand with the decree. If anything can happen, there's a risk. Who among your colleagues knows the risk, I will be glad to hear a specific risk, except for the concerns, but perhaps they are distracted by this debate. Then I'll be the first to push our club to vote to shorten if that's the risk. If it is not, then let us consider it very much again, and that is essentially on you, Minister, if it is not only for many reasons more advantageous from the point of view, say, the calming of certain groups, which push more or less, send us emails and I do not know what to do, so that the law will somehow go hand in hand with the decree, but also Parliament will vote on the basis of what is in the decree, and you will be able to debate it better with various pressure groups. It's my opinion. I'm not a minister, I've never worked as a minister, so I don't know if it's right, but I give it to you to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u21	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. This is the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u22	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. I was talking about it. Not all segments are paid backup. There are segments that are paid for in performance. In a very simple way, they did not have performances at the time of reduced care, they did not show performances, so they can have liquidity problems really nowadays. They just don't get paid for the care. It also concerns the transport service that wants to protest. And so on. There's a whole series of segments. There are 14 of them. Each segment is a little different. Each segment has a different payment mechanism. I don't want to go into detail here. But for us, it's just essential that those segments have the certainty of what they might expect. And once again, it is also a question of the remuneration of health professionals. We have made it clear here, and we want to keep it true that first-line health professionals are supposed to get their pay for the work they did not only in state hospitals, but also in regional hospitals, so that hospitals can get extra money to pay their health workers. I can't imagine the director of a hospital now giving rewards to his paramedics if he doesn't really know how the payment parameters will be set to actually reach the maximum 100% payment. And in this regard, I fear that it will simply be a negative effect at all on the real stability and the nervousness that the health sector has in it. And I can see her. I'm communicating with the individual segments. We're talking to every segment in health care. And everyone expects that these parameters for this year will be ready by the end of June, that they will be able to plan their management by the end of the year. If we're going to discuss the law here for a month - that's the question, if it's going to be another month - then it's going to go back to the Senate and so on, so we're sometime in the fall, when everyone knows what they're going to do, they're going to have to set up the production and so on. So I think in this regard, if we want the health system to be stabilized, so that the nervousness of all of them, which of course is linked to the crisis, let's pass the law. And then we'll submit a payment order, respectively. The committee's compensation decree. We can have a debate about this. I don't think there's a debate about conducting a technical debate on a payment or compensation decree. On the committee, yes. And there we will undoubtedly present it, as we have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u23	Thank you. Since there was no final word, the Minister reopened the debate with his speech. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u24	A brief remark and then some compromise proposal on how to get out of this situation. My colleagues on the committee, Minister, say that you promised that they would get the decrees on business on Tuesday that they would get the work version on Tuesday night. And it's Friday. Then don't blame the nervousness of the members of the health committee at least from among the opposition. It's true what the Professor Svoboda said at the beginning. It's a good plan. The idea has support in our club. But the details are unknown, and the experts are nervous about it. At this point, I propose that we interrupt this bill before deciding whether or not it is in a legislative emergency until next Friday by 9 o'clock. I suppose the Ministry of Health can use that time to discuss the working version of the decree with the members of the Health Committee, whether in bulk or individually, I'll leave that to the Chair of the Health Committee. And it could simplify the whole process not only in the lower but also in the upper chamber of Parliament. Consider, Minister, this procedure. Sounds like a compromise to me before we're here to repress for three more hours, whether it's a legislative emergency or not. There's really no threat to those seven days by next Friday. If we can discuss the working version of the decree, we will not vote blindly, it could also contribute not only to stability, but also to greater political support for the solution you will come up with. Mr Vice-President, think of this as my procedural proposal - to interrupt this item until 9 pm next Friday. Thank you. [[- Yes.]] Before deciding whether it is in a legislative emergency or not. Because the moment my colleagues say that this is clarified, there is no problem discussing it in a legislative emergency and next Friday to have it approved within a short period of time. Moreover, the President of the House has declared a state of legislative emergency, I think, until the end of June, so we are still in the interval where this can be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-004-001.u25	Yes, I understand that. It's a procedural proposal. In the meantime, I have already called in Members who have not been in the Chamber to be prepared for the vote. I'll repeat what's been proposed. It is a procedural proposal that we interrupt this item by 9 pm next Friday. There's a motion to check out. I checked you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. We therefore vote to interrupt, as proposed. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 147 Members registered, for 147, against no one. I'm stating that we've interrupted this item until 9:00 p.m. next Friday. Now we're going back to discussing point number
