ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-30-ps2017-053-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening today's meeting on the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I ask you all to sign up with identification cards, or to tell me who is asking for a replacement card, which Mr Dolejš, who has a replacement card number 10, has already notified me. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 58 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday 23 June this year. With the replacement card number 17, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will vote. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member, Kateřina Valachová, and a Member, Stanislav Berkovec. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no other proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. We'll wait a while. I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of Member Kateřina Valachová and Member Stanislav Berkovec being verifiers? Who's against it? Voting number 1, registered by 88 Members, for 87, against none. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Kateřina Valachová, and a Member of Stanislav Berkovec, as verifiers of the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that before the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence to the negotiations by the following Members: Bartoš Ivan from 10.30 - working grounds, Baxa Martin - working reasons, Běhounek Jiří - working reasons, Bělica Josef - working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel - working reasons, Benešík Ondřej - health reasons, Birke Jan - family reasons, Blaha Stanislav - working reasons, Bláha Jiří - health reasons, Blažek Pavel - working reasons, Černochová Jana - working reasons, Černý Alexander - personal reasons, Dražilová Lenka - health reasons, Elfmark František - family reasons, Fridrich Stanislav - health reasons, Golasowská Pavla - working reasons, Hájek Josef - health reasons, Hanzel Tomáš - personal reasons, hnilička Milan until 14.30 - working grounds, hrnčíř Jan - foreign trip, Jan - medical Janulík, Janík Miloslav - medical reasons, Juránek Stanislav - health reasons, health Kasal, Kasa David - working reasons... [[A messenger is coming to the President. Jiří Bláha]] So Mr. Bláha is here. Yeah, you told me that now, right. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] Well, I only heard you from your side, so I wasn't looking at you, so you said Bláha is here, so you were talking in the third person, so I didn't know you were talking about yourself. Oh, yeah. And Mr. Hnilička is here too. Okay. So you're canceling your apology, I get it. Kasal David - Válek Vlastimil, Kobza Jiří within 12 hours - Válková Helena, Kolářík Lukáš - Rakušan Tomáš, Kováčik Staněk within 12 hours - health Veselý, Krutáková Jana - Ondřej reasons, Levová Jana within 13 hours - working reasons, Martinů Jaroslav - Šlechtová Karla, Mauritzová Ilona - Tureček Karel, Michálek Jakub - personal František, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana - family reasons, Němcová Miroslava within 13 hours - Vondrák Rostislav, Okleštěk Ladislav - working reasons, Pražák David - Pastuchová reasons, Pávek Petr - health reasons, Pikal Vojtěch - working Vácha, Plzák Pavel - working reasons, Podal Zdeněk - health reasons, Pour Milan from 10 to 12 hours - working reasons, health reasons. - Mr. Jiří Strýček cancels his apology because he's here. Now I don't know where I left off... Veselý Ondřej - family reasons, Vondrák Ivo - working reasons, Vymazal Tomáš - working reasons, Vyzula Rostislav - family reasons. Further apologies to members of the government: Babiš Andrej - working reasons, Benešová Marie - working reasons, Hamáček Jan within 11 hours - working reasons, Maláčová Jana - working reasons, Metnar Lubomír - working reasons, Plaga Robert - working reasons, Toman Miroslav within 12 hours - working reasons, Vojtěch Adam - working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - working reasons. And that's not all. Mrs Ivana Nevludová also apologizes from 9 a.m. to the end of the day - personal reasons, Mr Marian Bojko from 9 a.m. to the end of the day - health reasons and Mr Beitl from 9 a.m. to 12.30 for working reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, whose proposal is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 107 Members registered, for 103, against none. The agenda has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the one point that is
