ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions of acquisition and recognition of competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and the pursuit of activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws (the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations), as amended (the House Print 1103/ - shortened conduct) Before the hearing, we would have been subject to Article 99 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law are in the accelerated procedure. I'm opening the debate. No one is applying to the debate. Therefore, if no one signs up for the debate, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, House press 1103, in a shortened hearing." [[Act on non-medical health professions]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 117, 97 Members signed up, for 58, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am now opening a government bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, House press 1103, shortened negotiations. [[Act on non-medical health professions]] And Mr Kubíček wants to speak with priority rights? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose a shortening of the time for Members to speak in a general and detailed debate for once five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u3	Okay, then we'll vote on your proposal. I'll call the MPs to the ballroom. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. Mr Kubíček, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, proposes that the time for Members to speak in both general and detailed debate should be reduced to five minutes. Once times five minutes. Once times five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 118, 96 Members voted in favour of 52, against 10. The motion was accepted. The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you for the second time with this, I believe, with an entirely uncontroversial proposal. Allow me to mention here an operationally prepared bill that responds to the situation caused by the epidemic of COVID-19 disease and to the resolution of its consequences following the announced emergency situation. In view of the impact on the personnel situation caused by the consequences of this disease and the need to ensure health care in particular for health care providers or social services at a time when hospitals are staffed as a result of quarantine or illness of a number of health workers, it is necessary to find an appropriate way to extend the possibility of obtaining additional health care workers to provide healthcare. The proposed bill therefore extends the possibilities of applying students to general medicine. I therefore propose that the regulation of Section 21b of the Act on Non-medical Medical Workers be supplemented by an additional alternative for obtaining competence to perform the profession of a practical nurse. A new qualification for the profession of a practical nurse will also be given by a student of general medicine after completing eight semesters and carrying out an examination from the subject of nursing or care of a sick or similar subject. This is, in fact, a situation in which medical students can be legally employed after the fourth year as practical nurses and can also be adequately evaluated. So they will work in places that rightfully belong to them. The proposal thus makes use of the penetration of some study and educational programmes and the knowledge and skills of medical professionals with certain non-medical health professions. At present, this passthrough of education is already being used when the Act on Non-Medical Occupations regulates the conditions for the application of medications, but so far only for the position of ambulance and caregiver. The proposed adjustment appears to be the most appropriate and fastest way to address the shortage of health workers, especially for the current period, but is not limited by this. The effects of the proposed legislation will be favourable, since the applicability of general medicine students will thus be wider. At the same time, it will contribute to increasing the number of non-medical health professionals most requested, which are healthcare professionals. The proposed legislation has no impact on public budgets. The proposed proposal was discussed on 1 December 2020 by the Health Committee and recommended in its opinion that the Chamber of Deputies agree with it. I would also like to mention that the Committee on Health also discussed at its meeting the amendment tabled by Mr Třešňák and Mrs Richterová. This amendment provides for the possibility for students of dental studies after completion of four semesters of accredited medical master's degree in dental medicine and after passing an examination from the subject of preclinical dental medicine or similar subject within this field of study to be qualified for the profession of dental instrumenter. The Committee on Health has not adopted that amendment. I am inclined to refer to the legislation in this amendment to be discussed in the framework of the ordinary legislative process, including the commentary procedure, and, inter alia, because there is currently no comparison of the content of the dental programme and the dental instrument teacher's educational programme. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to adopt the proposal for a solution to the situation as soon as possible, as it will help to address immediately the lack of personnel security in the provision of health care, particularly in the current situation caused by the current epidemic. This legislation will then allow medical professionals to accept the position of practical nurses in a very short period of time. For these reasons, I therefore propose to adopt this proposal in a state of legislative emergency. I would therefore like to ask you for the kind support of this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u5	The Committee on Health, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1103/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Jiří Běhounek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u6	Thank you for your word. Minister, Mr President, colleagues, you have heard a clear explanation from the Minister's mouth. Covid has shown that we really cannot use the skills and knowledge of senior medical students without this adjustment. We have had quite a lot of problems with this, and I am glad that this opportunity has come up. The Committee on Health has discussed this proposal on 1 December 2020 and adopted Resolution 334, which I will introduce to you. After the opening words of the Minister of Health and the report by my colleague Kasal, who I represent, and after the debate, the Committee on Health proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; Secondly, it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a detailed debate on all parts of the bill; Thirdly, it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on the bill by Friday 4 December 2020 at the latest by 14.00; Fourthly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's draft law amending Act 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising eligibility for the exercise of non-medical medical professions and on the pursuit of activities related to the provision of healthcare and amending certain related laws, as amended, House press 1103; empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to inform the Committee's opinion to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; empowers the Committee's rapporteur Dr Kasal to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Act on non-medical health professions]] The amendment, which the Minister has commented on, is the only amendment that is being made to this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u7	Yes, thank you. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. So I'm gonna go on and I'm gonna call the Members to the Chamber because we're kind of empty here. So, we will now decide whether to hold a general debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 119: 93 Members registered, for 65, against none. The motion was accepted. I am therefore opening a general debate, and I have Mr Petr as the first Mr Třešňák to sign up and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. I got a factual comment here, about a few minutes ago, from Mr Martin Kupka, but I think it was a mistake, the MP is not here, so I'm going to smack him off. I hope he doesn't mind. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. In a legislative emergency, we actually have an adjustment here today, which many medical professionals have been calling for for for a long time, already in the precocious period, so that after a certain number of semesters they can be considered full-fledged health workers. And this has nothing to do with just performing basic tasks in some health establishments, but above all, so that they can have access, for example, and they can enter data into hospital information systems, which they cannot do now. Now, actually, the coronavirus crisis has thrown the subject back on our table. And here I have to point out that it is necessary to first say whether we want to set this regulation in general or just for a period of pandemic and emergency conditions, because in such situations we do not really need the legislative regulation and would not be necessary, because under emergency conditions under crisis law, the Governor is entitled to define the scope of work obligations or assistance under crisis law, even in such a way that advanced medical professionals, for example, perform work for which otherwise they are not legally qualified. This means that we do not really need such legal regulation during the emergency period. [[12.30 hours]] Please also note how we treat the medicines in general and how we reflect their comments on the education system. But then when the covid comes, we suddenly find out how much we need them. Of course, everyone who has now had to go to hospitals instead of studying in an emergency is very grateful, but please also note that they are primarily studying to become doctors and not to cover the long-term personnel problems of the Czech health care system. I therefore appeal for medical professionals to return to full study as soon as possible and their duty to work is abolished. But back to the very amendment in a legislative emergency. She has created another disproportion, which we are trying to level with our Amendment 6946, which was already mentioned by the Minister. Let me introduce him briefly once again, even though we have already done so with colleague Olga Richterová on the Health Committee. The government amendment addresses the competence of students of general medicine, but it has completely forgotten students of dental medicine, who are now under the law and government amendments no longer have the competence of nonmedical health profession. This means that a dental student in the fifth year, who wants to gain experience in practice and assist in the office, is not allowed by law to give a mirror to dentists in the office. We therefore propose that students of dental medicine should be qualified to perform a non-medical medical profession as a dental instructor after the completion of the four semesters of the dental programme. Furthermore, I would like to point out that according to Decree 391/2017, a practical nurse has the competence to carry out the activities of a dental instrumental, so there would be an absurd situation in which a student of general medicine will have competence to perform the activities of a dental instrumental, while a student of dental medicine would not. As stated in the justification of our amendment, students of dental medicine after the completion of the four semesters completion of the course of preclinical dental medicine have sufficient knowledge and practical skills to be able to pursue the profession of dental instruments. This amendment was consulted with all the vice-deans for dental medicine of all five medical faculties teaching dental medicine and on their part there was no objection to this legislation; on the contrary, it was welcomed by many. The President of the Czech Association of Sisters, as well as the Young Doctors Association, also agrees with the proposal. I would therefore like to ask you to support this amendment, which we see as completely constructive and discussed across the spectrum of all the experts affected. And, in fact, his non-approval will create a truly illogical situation. As far as the government law is concerned, I have to point out here that we would much rather have such adjustments dealt with outside the legislative emergency precisely for the reasons that I mentioned at the outset. After that, there would be enough time for discussion across with experts, including the involvement of relevant organisations. I would also like to say that we consider it essential that the syllabus of medical faculties really in practice then correspond to the new competence of the practical nurse, which is supposed to fall to the doctors according to the government amendment. That is all for me, thank you, then I will join the proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u9	So now, Mrs Olga Richterová will come forward. I'm warning you, it's five minutes for the show. And Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask Minister Blatný what the reason for his disagreement is because I didn't understand. The point is that we are proposing an amendment with colleague Třešňák, who, in our opinion, is dealing with a simple omission, something that has just been forgotten. Because during the emergency period, there is no need for more precise competencies to be defined for students, whether general medicine or dental medicine, that's where the captain could order it. Under the crisis law, theoretically, that would be possible. I understand that you want to deal with this legislatively, but we should think, in particular, that this is something that should be applied more generally, that in the past young doctors wanted this, among other things, so that they could, for example, during their studies. the work of a practical nurse as a part-time job. And that's why we've noticed that dental students have been neglected. I'll remind you, it's only five faculties where it's being studied. That's why we've reached out to all five deans of dentistry, and we've found that they agree. We approached the president of the Czech Association of Sisters and she agreed. With what? With four semesters of completed dental medicine being equivalent to a two-month course, a dental instrumental course that otherwise suffices. The two-month course is done by anyone who wants to go to the dental office, who just wants to work there normally, help dentists, and this two-month course is actually very similar in what he's going through, what he's doing at the same time covering those four semesters of dental studies. We've leveled all the sluices. That's why all the dean's consents were granted. And why I'm stressing it like that. Because the important thing is that a practical nurse can already perform the function of a dental instrumental. So if this House approves the bill, as it is presented, it will happen that general medicine students will be able to help out in dental clinics as dental instruments and, on the contrary, dental medicine students will not be able to help out in this way. And that seems pointless to me. I think it's just an omission, and I don't understand why there's such resistance. I heard from my colleague Běhounek here that the course isn't two months, but six months, I have this in my background. The bottom line for me is that four semesters of dental medicine, when we've straightened out all the syllabus, all the things your students are going to do for those four semesters, so it overlaps with the course of the dental instrumentals, and that makes sense to us why it would make sense to admit it. I'd be very happy to explain. At the same time, I stress once again that we have consulted all relevant experts in the field, and it seems to us that these are pure minor omissions that we can easily remedy here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u11	Now, I'm going to ask Minister Jan Blatnýý if you're interested in a factual remark, which you would like to go now. If you had only gone with priority rights, you would have gone after Mr Běhounek. So, for two minutes in fact, right now. There you go. Mr. Jiří Běhounek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, Madame, this will be shorter. I'm just pointing out that there may be more of those areas in dentistry, maybe there might also be a dental hygienist after the fourth year and so on, which are opinions for example. dental chambers. I, please, do not have a negative opinion on this amendment, I have a neutral position. And the original proposal was that this could also be discussed in the framework of the standard legislative process, this amendment, because the solution to the current situation is particularly medical. But I didn't mean to say that, and I'm not saying that I have a negative opinion. I have a neutral position on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u13	Mr Jiří Běhounek will now speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. I just don't want to escalate the debate, I just want to say that, of course, I don't know, at least in my neighborhood, that any student of dental medicine would be sent to work on an emergency situation. So this is a situation that arose precisely because general medicine students had this thing going on. There is therefore no justification for the Czech Stomatological Chamber in the justifications you put there, my colleagues, which, in my view, is a very important organization which will eventually employ these people. I've reached out to Mr. President Šmucler. He doesn't really have a problem. The six months of education came out of his mouth, so that's why I called it that to the Minister. And true, he pointed out that a much bigger issue would be dental hygienist after the fourth year, etc. So I am of the opinion that inclusion in the ordinary legislative process could easily take place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u15	Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will now speak in the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you're limited by the five-minute deadline, just a reminder. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u16	Thank you for the floor. My contribution came from the moment I read the final version of the law, because it is a demonstration of what is not to be done in an emergency. This is a very complex act we are doing because we are de facto changing the study curriculum. So far we have there that after three semesters - an orderly with an exam, after four semesters - a nurse with an exam, and now we're putting there after eight semesters - a practical nurse with an exam. You can't do it that easy. I think if we want to do this, we must at least make an emergency accompanying resolution that we impose on the medical faculties to modify the curriculum, define the hourly scale to be devoted to it, the material content and define the type of test. If it's a test, credit, classified credit. Just the administrative things that are necessary need to be done. The need is necessary so that we can really stand behind this, because we as a medical faculty have a duty and a certain agreement that our education is recognised by other countries of the European Union. So if we put into this education a phenomenon that is different, we need to have it properly completed so that we can have it modified in the curriculum, the time span that will be devoted to it was defined, the material content and the type of test. These are things that might be enough to treat with the accompanying resolution: it obliges the medical faculties to supplement their study curriculum with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u17	Mr Jiří Běhounek, on the point of fact. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u18	I'm just reacting to a fellow Svoboda. Deans of all medical faculties, as far as I know, have agreed on this. They fully support this, and we have also brought it to their attention in the Health Committee, so the accompanying resolution, if any, is nothing to do with it, because they are counting on it and have agreed to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u19	Mr Vlastimil Válek now has the floor. I'm just asking because you haven't performed yet, so you can choose whether factual or general. Which one? In general. So you have five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u20	I have to get off, because if the curriculum changes, those faculties will have to reaccredit themselves. I called the deans. I don't want to dissect their answers now led by our dean of our medical faculty, Professor Repk. When the Minister returns to the faculty as a lecturer of the faculty... We need to realize what we're doing. Now we're gonna have to find out in the first four years - and I've written to you all a detailed analysis prepared by the dean of our medical school, who is in charge of nonmedical fields. We're going to have to change the curriculum quite fundamentally. We'll have to get quite a lot of practical lessons there. I am very worried that, perhaps, at our medical school, this will be a problem for SIMU specifically. I know it was going to happen fast, I know who would initiate, I think we all know it, we know the reasons. I'm glad they're dealing with the fact that students are being put into hospitals, and basically it doesn't have support in a number of cases, they don't know exactly what they can do, they can't do. But let's take a look at the competence of the practical nurses. Practical sister is, by the way, a field that is only in the Czech Republic, generally a general sister. I would really like it if we were talking about changing the law that defines what used to be. I was MUC, I was a medic, I had the medical skills. And this is what we should get back into the law. That's right. But if this applies even after an emergency situation and it's in general, so from my point of view, and I'm glad if any of you say I'm wrong, it'll mean changing the curricula, getting some 400, 500, 600 hours of practical teaching, which, of course, they'll have to teach the nurses to the first four years - I don't know, at the expense of what - and reaccredit those medical faculties again. Because let's see what it's like for the practical nurses. They care about stomies, but that's not what doctors learn in the first four years. They take care of the application of substances using a catheter introduced flexi, but that's not what doctors are learning today. They learn to introduce flexiles, but that's not what doctors learn. They have a lot of activities that doctors don't really learn, and they're gonna have to be taught, and they're gonna have to be taught by those nurses who are now teaching them practical or general nurses. That means I'm glad the deans of medical schools agreed to it, or part of those deans who read it and were vigilant and looked into it in detail and thought about the consequences. But I don't know if the deans of the medical schools agreed to it, too, if those who teach the general nurses and teach the practical teachings agreed. I wouldn't want it to look like I'm fundamentally opposed to increasing the competence of medical school students. That's right. It is right that we return to the model that a fourth year student has competence, and it is good that it is. But let's be aware of all the related conventions. I understand that when the law - we know the text of the law on Tuesday and Friday we vote on it at second and third readings, and we don't even know who's gonna be here because the people I talked to yesterday aren't here today. I wasn't supposed to be here today either. Today, three other colleagues were drawn. I wasn't drawn, and I'm here because of the law. But the ones I talked to yesterday, two days ago, weren't drawn today, so they're just not here. That means, it doesn't feel like we're seriously debating all the conventions. For example, I would expect the NAÚ to comment that there is no risk of accreditation of medical faculties. I would expect those who are rectists on different sides to step out and say no, it's not a problem, you paint the devils on the wall. I am glad that the Minister is sure that these problems will not occur. I am glad that the rapporteur is sure that these problems will not occur. I'm not sure, that's why I'm staying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u21	I'll look around to see if there's still an interest in the general performance. Yes, one point of fact. So, Mr. Jiří Běhounek, the rapporteur at the same time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u22	Just a very short reaction. Please, this came from life. This came from the fact that colleagues who were nominated either by an agreement or by issuing a work order were... Just the fifth and sixth-year medical students just felt untapped. So I'm assuming that in colleges and faculties, the situation is such that it's for the benefit. Please, it's about that, and I don't have the information that the nurses are fighting it, that they could be included in other than ambulance or lower activities if necessary. And it's in the individual workplaces again, how to approach it. I'm begging you to look at it like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u23	Mrs Věra Adámková will now make a point of fact. Please, madam. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I think that trying to put this situation in the right place is a good thing. I just want to point out that yesterday and the day before yesterday, I asked the Deans of the Health and Social Sciences who are dominantly teaching the field of general nurse, but you didn't talk to them, or you left them behind. I think that the amendment law is given in good faith, and I thank you very much for that, but it comes from a bit of ignorance that gives competence. The competence for the general nurse is not primarily given by the medical faculty, the medical faculty has a doctor, but it is done by the general medical faculty. And with those, as far as I know, you haven't spoken. I would strongly suggest that we really complete the amendment and really put in there all those involved who can speak into those competences. I think this is premature, and I don't think that at the time of the covid, in particular, a dental instrumental would be the one that's most needed. Let's give it time and do it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u25	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now speak on the point of fact and prepare for Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's factual comment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u26	I would like to point out once again that, in any case, it is necessary for students of medical faculties after the fourth year to have competence. They had competence and could work independently to some extent. But by this law, we give them the competence of a practical sister. Not an ambulance, not someone who wipes sheets, but practical nurses. So they will be able to perform the activities of the practical sisters themselves. That's what it says. And if I'm not telling the truth, please tell me I'm not telling the truth, either the translator or the minister! And so these activities will have to learn somewhere in the first four years because they don't learn them. Nothing more, nothing less. I'm not questioning it, I'm just pointing this out. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u27	Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will now make a point of fact, so far the last application. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u28	Thank you for the floor. It's exactly what I said in my word. It's not a law to deal with an emergency situation. Plus, we're in a situation where those medics have to go back to the faculty, they have to end up in those hospitals. First of all, the personnel pressure isn't like that anymore, and second of all, it means to them if they continue and don't continue to study, they won't end this semester so they can graduate the sixth year. What I've been suggesting is adjusting the curricula, it's an emergency solution that wouldn't work, because the truth is, it just has to contain the filling that it teaches. It's just a thing that can't be solved in a shortened regime because none of us are capable of affecting all of this. Even the deans aren't in agreement, it's not true that they're all in agreement. They're just realizing it all now, what it means that the clock has to be there. And the right fact is that medical schools are not the guarantor of this teaching, that they don't quite decide about it, that's the thing that nurses would have to teach at those medical faculties anyway. So nothing's going to happen, at this point, it's not going to limit the current situation if we put this thing off and do it in a normal mode where we treat all these things. Because I would very much appreciate it if the medic had some qualifications at some point that would allow him to do something if he couldn't complete his medical studies and could become a qualified medical force in some form.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u29	So I'll look around the hall to see if there's any interest in anyone else speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if the Minister is interested in speaking in the final words. The rapporteur? No. So I am opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Petr Třešňák, Member of Parliament, applied for the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u30	I will only apply to Amendment 6946, which I justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u31	I do not have another application for a detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask again if there is interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? No, I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. Now I will ask the rapporteur whether we can continue continuously, if you are ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u32	I think it's the two health laws, so we could do it if our colleagues have no problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u33	If no one objects, then we would continue with the third reading continuously, and because according to § 99 para. 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure can follow the third reading of the draft law immediately after reading the second, I initiate the third reading of the submitted Government Bill and I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Health and Member Jiří Běhounek to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the debate that I hereby open. Anyone reporting for the debate? I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? There's no interest. So please the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Běhounek, to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u34	The procedure for voting, colleagues and colleagues, is quite simple. Legally, technical modifications have not been proposed. There is one amendment by colleague Třešňák 6946 and then a vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u35	It's very trivial, but I'll have the procedure voted on. I've got an application for check-out, I've signed you out, sign up again with your voting cards. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. We will vote whether we agree with the procedure proposed, as proposed by the rapporteur. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 120, 85 Members registered, for 84, against none. The draft procedure has been approved. Please, so let's go with the changeling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u36	So the first vote would be - Mr Třešňák 6946's amendment, justified and commented twice. Please, Mr President, take the next step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-004-002.u37	So, Minister, your position? [[Neutral.]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 121, 91 Members registered, for 57, against none. The motion was accepted. So these are all amendments, if I understand correctly. [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] So all the amendments were voted on. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, pursuant to House press 1103, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act on non-medical health professions]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 122, 92 Members registered, for 75, against 10. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Let's move on to the next point. And before discussing the point of the Government's bill amending Act No. 161/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of employment in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic in 2020 and amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, House press 1104, shortened negotiations, we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening a debate to which no one is reporting, so I am ending the debate and we are going to proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 161/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of employment in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic in 2020 and amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, House Press 1104 in a shortened hearing.' I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 123, 92 Members signed in for 72, versus 2. The motion for a resolution has been approved. So now I'm opening up a point.
