ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-008-007.u1	7. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Stanislav Grospič, Pavel Kováčik, Miloslava Vostrá and Marie Pěnčíková to issue a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended /house print 508/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 508/1. The words should be adopted by the representatives of the plaintiffs, Mr Vojtěch Filip, but Mr Grospič is present and ready. So please, you have the floor. I'll ask the House for a little more peace! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-008-007.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me ask you for a moment to pay attention to also the constitutional bill proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which would highlight the competence and scope of the Constitution and constitutional order in relation to the protection of water and water resources. Our proposal was submitted a year ago, 13 June 2019, and is conducted by an effort as economical as possible to enter only Article 7 and create room for implementing regulations, especially the Water Act. [[on microphone submitted 2020]] We propose that the wording of Article 7, which so far reads: "The State takes care of the gentle use of natural resources and the protection of natural wealth." was replaced by the text: Paragraph 1: "Water, as well as other natural resources and natural wealth, is owned by the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic protects and enhances this wealth and is obliged to ensure the protection and gentle use of water as a basic life needs as well as other natural resources and natural wealth for the benefit of its citizens and subsequent generations." And the second paragraph: "The method of exploitation and protection is laid down by law." We have come to this from the fact that the current constitutional protection and subsequent legal regulation do not fully address the necessary protection of natural resources and natural wealth, especially water and water resources. The dry period of the last few years has shown that water in particular as a basic condition of life should not only have, but necessarily needs absolutely fundamental protection. The conservation of water resources should therefore be a priority of the highest importance. The reason for the proposed higher constitutional protection of water and water resources from our side, i.e. the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, is their vulnerability, but also their necessity for the existence of life on the whole Earth. A number of negative impacts on the lives of the population, natural and artificial ecosystems, the state of agriculture and the environment are expected in connection with the upcoming climate change, which is why water needs to be appreciated and protected, its natural resources, its underground springs and lakes to be maintained, to avoid pollution and waste as much as possible. I will just point out that around 11 percent of the landscape is built in the Czech Republic, 2 percent are water areas and the rest is agricultural - 53 percent - and forestry - 34 percent - landscape. And in order to be sustainable, this is also for future generations, to use it, what landscape production provides, food, energy, wood, we must now more than ever prefer measures to protect soil and water. The rapid degradation of the soil and the inability to contain water in the landscape poses a significant threat to production itself and is unsustainable in the longer term. Dear colleagues, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia wants to contribute to the most important discussion of the present, i.e. to discuss the protection of one of the most valuable natural resources we have, namely water and water resources. I beg their support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-008-007.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr František Navrkal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-008-007.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the substance of the proposed adjustment lies in the wording of Article 7 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, in which the appellants speak about the protection and gentle management of water and natural resources. They also state that water and other undefined natural wealth are property of the Czech Republic. The Government's position on the proposal is disagreeable. The reasoning is mainly linked to the proposed concept of water ownership and natural wealth. The current legislation in contrast to the proposed changes is based on the fact that surface and underground water sources cannot be the subject of ownership or the accessories of the land on which they occur and that water becomes the object of ownership after its collection. The unclear definitions of natural wealth parties raise questions about what ownership of the state should apply. In fact, it is now described as a natural wealth, e.g. the entire agricultural soil fund, but also game. If state ownership were to affect all these areas, the government's words would be a radical change in ownership in the Czech Republic. In a similar way, constitutional lawyer Jan Kudrna expressed himself in an interview for Hospodářské noviny of 23 June last year. According to his assessment, the amendment to the Constitution in its proposed form could even mean nationalisation not only of water but also of all land, gardens or construction plots. I suppose we will have more to say about this proposal in the debate. Finally, I would like to point out that the Organising Committee has proposed the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee. Otherwise, it's all on my side, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-008-007.u5	Thank you, too. I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Mrs Pekarová apologizes today between 14.30 and 15.30 for work reasons. I have now heard from President Kováčik, but in the debate, I presume. Yes, in that case, I interrupt this point. And now we should get to the point
