ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u1	3. Government bill on the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic /German press 875/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing the Government's draft law on the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, i.e. the Parliamentary Press 875, we would, according to Section 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening up a debate on this point. No one shall register in the debate on the terms of the draft law in the short hearing. I'm done with the conversation. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on the waiver of social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, Parliament's press 875, in the accelerated negotiations'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74. Registered 181 MP, for 161, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved, so we will proceed in a short hearing. The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor. [[It goes on louder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing another bill, please to the House for peace, so that we can hear the Minister and her opening words! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u2	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Member, honourable Members. One more time...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u3	I ask you once again to calm down, because we do not hear the Minister and her opening words on this bill. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u4	820,000 jobs. 820,000 jobs. That's the balance sheet for yesterday's Antivirus Day. On yesterday's day, the Antivirus program, which we have set on our feet within a few days during the month of March, supported 820 jobs on yesterday's date. [[1000]] Less than 8 billion were paid out. Every day those numbers pop up. We supported almost 60,000 companies within these sums, of which 82 percent had a number of employees up to ten. That's the Antivirus balance. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am before you today to ask for the approval of the bill, where we are moving under the existing regimes A and B of the Antivirus programme for the approval of the C regime, which is supposed to be fast, simple, to support, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises into 50 employees and to help to actually lighten the B regime, which is built on obstacles at work, so that we can actually pay as much as possible. [[11.20 hours]] We have submitted this bill after a few weeks of government-level negotiations. And if this proposal is supported and the number of employees up to 50 is approved, that is to say, small and medium-sized companies that will be relieved will be affected by 88 percent of companies in the Czech Republic. This proposal will cover up to 88 percent of companies employing up to 1.5 million employees in the Czech Republic, in the wage sector. So once again, if I were to repeat this, let me ask you to grant approval of this proposal to companies, employers of social security premiums and a contribution to the state employment policy of 24.8 gross wages, that is to say, employers' contributions for the months of June, July and August. This means that it is the following three months, following up on the existing Antivirus A and B schemes, the waiver of insurance premiums, if approved, will take place automatically, by reducing the employer's assessment base from which the premium is calculated. Once again, I would like to stress that this premium is covered by 1.5 times the average wage, so that we support the majority of employees, and it is up to 52 253 CZK, which represents this very basis, from which the potentially pardoned contributions for employers are then paid. The conditions for waiver of insurance premiums shall be assessed separately in each month. The basic condition is that the employer did not significantly reduce employment or the amount of wages provided to his employees. Therefore, two further conditions are proposed in addition to those laid down in the 50 employees and the possibility of remission of the contribution up to 1,5 times the average wage. The other two criteria are a condition for maintaining the number of employees and wage levels at least 90 per cent of the pre-pandemic state. We will compare the number of employees at the end of each month from the three for which we propose the possibility of waiver of insurance premiums, and this will be compared to the month of March, i.e. to 31 March of this year. And the total staff basis for each of these three months will be compared to the total staff basis in March. Let me also stress that the number of persons active on the basis of agreements and their assessment bases are not taken into account because they are usually of a short-term nature. The other conditions of this proposal, this scheme C of Antivirus, are that the employer does not employ more than 50 employees on the last day of the relevant calendar month, as I mentioned before, properly paid contributions for employees, i.e. 6.5 %, and does not draw funds from the Antivirus A and B programme, which continues on the basis of the Government's decision, B continues until the month of August. Another condition mentioned here, and it has been the subject of debates in recent weeks. They are the very companies, they should not be entitled to the support that is based in tax havens. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to mention what will be the impact on the state budget. Employers with up to 50 employees are expected to have overall effects not exceeding CZK 4.5 billion per month, i.e. a total of 13.5 billion. As far as the ceiling of the assessment base per employee is set at 1.5 times the average wage, given the average wage in enterprises up to 50 employees, we expect that there was an average wage of CZK 22,000 per month, respectively in March, so the impact is not significant. I have promised to be brief, which is why I am asking you, honourable Members, to approve this government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u5	With priority rights, President Pekarová Adamová and President Stanjura are enrolled. I am just asking both of them if I can give the rapporteur more room and their priority right would apply at the start of the debate. Yes, thank you. In that case, I note that the proposal was dealt with by the Committee on Social Policy. His resolution is available to us as House Press 875/1. Only Mr Jan Bauer, the rapporteur of this committee, who I beg to inform us of the committee's deliberations. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u6	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, say my own political opinion in the general debate where I am duly signed up, so allow me, briefly, only in the context of the report. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for presenting the proposal. I will no longer repeat the individual parameters of this proposal, because they have already been heard and said by the Minister. I would just like to remind you and revive you that we had a debate on helping employers through social security relief, you remember that, not long ago, 14 days ago, in connection with another approved law, with the Act on reducing the penalty on deferred contributions. We have approved that these social security contributions will be deferred for a certain period of several months, with interest of 4% p. a. I think it is a pity that government and government officials were unable to present such closely related adjustments linked and suddenly, so again after 14 days and again in a legislative emergency we are dealing with this, but thank God for that. I think it would save a lot of time, and it would certainly increase the awareness of people and, above all, entrepreneurs, who then have to report to those programs or ask for some relief. I would also like to say that you have registered, I guess I'm not the only one that some employers' associations consider the draft to be poorly prepared and call for its changes so that they can really help companies in practice. After all, there will probably be some amendments that have already been tabled, and for this reason I also assume that I am already aware that many amendments have been introduced into the system, and perhaps some further amendments will be added to this debate. Finally, I would just like to briefly read the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy from yesterday 28 May, which reads: the Committee on Social Policy after the introductory words, firstly, proposes that a general debate be held. Secondly, it proposes that a detailed debate be held. Thirdly, it proposes that we conclude negotiations on this point today within 19 hours, and we recommend that the Chamber of Deputies agree to this proposal, as amended by the amendment adopted by the Committee on Social Policy, and in the final version, to introduce you to this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which I have done with this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. Just so we all know how we're gonna proceed. We will proceed by discussing the three laws we have in the short-term, that is, point 3, point 2 and point 1, first at second reading. This will give us time to prepare the amendments as they should, and then we will go through these points at third reading and then end today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Since we are in a shortened negotiations, we still have to decide whether a general debate will take place. That is what we must decide by vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of holding a general debate? Voting number 75. Announced 180 Members, for 96, against no one. We have approved a general debate. Although we have our preferred speakers, I will give the floor to Mr Kubíček. It's kind of a tradition for those short-term meetings when no one objects. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am obliged to propose a shortening of the time for a speaker's speech in a general and detailed debate for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u9	There has been a procedural proposal, which we will now vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 180 Members signed in for 72, versus 26. The proposal was not accepted, so we did not approve any limit. I am opening a general debate. First of all, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová, followed by President Zbyněk Stanjura, is with priority rights. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't begin with this press except to remind ourselves that a few weeks ago, a few weeks ago, I don't have exactly how many days it is in my head, we were dealing with a very similar material here, also social security contributions, and then it was the so-called. loans, i.e. deferral of reduced periodic penalty payments. But it really wasn't as effective a help as we could have already approved, if we had approved some of the amendments that were tabled here, one of them and mine, which actually reminds us very strikingly today of the current press. But when I proposed total forgiving social contributions, I really didn't just put a limit on 50 employees for small and medium-sized companies, but I meant forgiveness of a large part, not full, but 80 percent, for all, all those affected by the current situation. And we all know that it is not that 100 percent of companies are actually affected by today's crisis, but some sectors are sticking and doing better because they have the advantage of not having to close any establishments, they work in the online world, etc. And there is a complete fraction of them compared to those who are afflicted. But the proposal, as it stands and as it is presented to us, on this very matter I think it provides a certain loophole and there is still a possibility of a great improvement. I don't want to evaluate either of these antivir with my eyes because it's important to me the view of companies, the view of those to whom it really is intended to help. I guess we all have a common goal - to keep jobs. In this I see the importance of hearing feedback from the field, and when discussing the current material we have here, it was such that employers warned against creating some kind of deaf spot between Antivirus B and C and warned that not everyone who really needed help today would reach out to it and then, of course, they would have to touch the layoffs. This is what I am trying to address with the amendment that is in the system - I will, of course, sign up for it in a detailed debate. Now I just want to very briefly explain what the solution looks like. I think that it is so compromise and so well worked out that even those of you who want to support small and medium-sized companies today should be clear that you do not accept support from these companies, but at the same time you will expand the medium-sized, larger, which of the support, whether B or just the proposed C, are falling out. And when the secretary says 88 percent of companies fall into Antivirus C because they are in 50 employees, there aren't so many of them from this point of view, but they're still significant employers, they're just companies that, let's just say, they can cause in some regions if they have to close and if they end up in liquidation, certainly a small increase in unemployment, and I believe that we don't want anybody here. That is why I come up with a change that gives the condition of the assessment of the impact on companies in terms of the decline in sales so that we support really those who record some declines and record significant, which, by the way, was in the context of discussing this matter on tripartite as well as a reminder or request of some associations and they said that they should not have a problem with it. So I see the possibility of saving certain funds from the state budget, because I see no reason why they should have forgiven contributions then companies that have no problem. But at the same time, it extends the range of beneficiaries of this aid, not according to the size of the company, but the number of employees supported remains the criterion. And since 50 is relatively low, I'm expanding the number of supported employees to 100. This means that the supported firm will be able to use up to 100 of its employees as a three-month allowance waiver tool, all of which remains the same, the condition of 90 percent of the employees being kept, and thus not reducing wages below the level set, as the amendment assumes, I keep it all the same. But my point is really not to forget the medium-sized companies that go on operating, employ people, they just have the bad luck that their operation is so difficult to stop and leave employees on the obstacles that they don't fall into Antivirus B, but they try to mermom even when sales are down. And these, in my opinion, we wouldn't help with either C or B, and if we improve the C, we wouldn't forget them. I think it's a change that, even in terms of the impact on the state budget, is still very bearable, and it's a better price than having those people on doses, better than always being paid, we all know that. So that is why this amendment. I'm asking for his support. I believe that the goal will be met, as the one that has been intended by this whole amendment since the petitioners. Simplicity remains, it only reaches the criterion that has been neglected by the petitioner, but at the same time the number of preserved places that we can save is expanding. And I believe that's what we all really want. Thank you in advance for your support, and I will apply to this amendment. I am therefore reporting for a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u11	Thank you. I would just like to remind the informal agreement that factual remarks do not apply to the point in the accelerated negotiations. Of course, if anyone signs up, the chairman has to give him the floor. I'm saying this because I have a request for a performance with a point of fact. However, I do not see the Member concerned, so maybe this is just a mistake. President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, maybe I'll start out unconventional. I want to commend the Minister and the material that we are discussing at the moment. At least from public sources, if I have watched the internal coalition debate, the Minister has advocated wider support as far as possible. I know there were other proposals inside the government coalition, so this was definitely going in the right direction. And although I am sometimes critical, I will also get to that criticism, or I would say to comment on the individual parameters, however, the law is good, even if no amendment is adopted, so we are prepared to support it, because it will help small entrepreneurs, businessmen and those who employ people in particular, and will really allow them to save money and really it is one of the tools in the fight against secondary insolvency. I just need to clarify, it's not even a criticism - the concept of average wage is used there. In this case, I do not question the limit and this parameter 1.5 times, but if someone reads the text of the law, if it were accepted, they will ask: at what date is it? It is a pity, I do not know if there is any amendment to clarify this, or if there is any methodology. I think it's supposed to be pretty clear that everyone knows - times 1.5, and they can apply the discount or the forgiveness, and what they can't do anymore. [[11.40 hours]] And now to the individual parameters, Madame Adamová was talking about it. I think there will be a number of proposals in the system that will raise this support for a higher number of employees. And even in this proposal, there is a problem that we once had in the budgetary determination of taxes. This week it's such an evergreen, the debate on the budgetary determination of taxes is shifting. If I understand the text of the law correctly, Madam Secretary, if the company has 51 employees, it's too bad. And I think the break is illogical. If we wanted to help, and I know that there are such amendments, and we will support them, it would, for example, be for all small and medium-sized companies with a maximum of 50, so the person who has 51, 52 jobs today will not be motivated to let one or two go into the programme, because they will still meet 90 percent of the employment against March 2020. So if it's that the guy who has 52 gets 50, then it seems fair to me if it doesn't go to 100, 250 employees or so. So that is the first thing we should discuss in the debate, whether in detail or in general, why the break is so sharp. And now I'm not saying it's supposed to be for those companies that have 3,050 employees. There's almost no economic sense anymore. But so we don't actually create economic pressure or economic conditions for one, two, three people to get fired because then the company gets the support. And I'm sure it's better to have 50 times 24.8% forgiven than 0. I don't think it was intended. It's more illogical. When I was talking about budgeting taxes, it was because once, when you crossed the population line, the higher coefficient was for everyone from number 1 to 50,000. The moment we only made that break for those above that line, the problem was actually solved, and the pressures on how to artificially go around, raise or cross that line just disappeared. That's the first problem we should be debating. The second problem, which I see very problematic, and I also don't think it is intentionally, is a condition of 90 percent of the wage volume. Because if it was the only program and nothing else worked, it's fine, but at the same time we have closed schools in at least the month of June, now I'm not going to say anything about voluntary attendance, and we've approved that even parents can get cared for in June. So let's imagine a model example of a company with ten or forty employees, it has ten employees, it hasn't reduced anyone's salary by a crown, it hasn't fired anybody, and in June there will be two in the infirmary, and so the wage rate is 80 percent mathematically, while the employer holds everyone, everyone who goes to work, pays and would not reach this program at the same time. Maybe I'm reading it wrong, if that's not the case, it's okay. I didn't find it in the text of the law, and I have to admit that we weren't even able to write it in the amendment, we don't have an army of lawyers, so for example, the sum of those who have sick leave because they have zero in that statement. If it's meant that these guys are going off automatically, then of course my reservation is much smaller. That can happen. And it would be unfair to those who haven't really reduced their salary by a crown, holding all the jobs, and only because their employees are in the infirmary, which they are legally entitled to, would suddenly lose their support. And it's a shame. I think we need to have a debate about the number of employees. I would still understand if we used the definition we know to make it for small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't think the government decided to do this for budgetary reasons. I do not know whether or not the Minister will confirm this to me, because for logical reasons, we have long said that the backbone of the Czech economy is businessmen and small and small businesses, it would be most logical to give it to this group of entrepreneurs. Because it is true that the figures given in the explanatory memorandum are 80 per cent of employers, but it is not 80 per cent of employees, logically it cannot be. All the amendments that will aim to extend the scope of support to small and medium-sized enterprises, I declare that we will support our club, and it does not matter who filed it, because here we see that this is exactly what might help the Czech economy and Czech employers. And we're going to say it repeatedly here, and we're going to say it over the next few weeks and months, and we're going to be happy if we're wrong, but at this point, we're most concerned about secondary insolvency, which is going to happen to healthy companies that can do business. There'll just be a lower demand and they'll stop paying their suppliers. And that is the problem that we as citizens' democrats are most afraid of. That is why we proposed in March what the Minister has come up with now. That is why we suggested that VAT be deferred so that employers would have money not only for their employees, it is absolutely okay, it is in the first place, but that their suppliers would be in the second place and in the third place that they could wait. And by putting it off, for example, the VAT that we have unsuccessfully proposed, or even here, if there was a delay, we could think better about who it would be a delay for and for whom it would be forgiveness. We'd have more data, we'd have something to build on, and the help could be more targeted, and therefore more accurate. Despite these reservations that I made in this brief speech, I would like to say that my colleague, Vice-President of the Social Committee, Mr Bauer, will present our amendments which go in this direction and will give detailed reasons, but I declare for our club that even if they did not pass, we firmly believe that at least some of them will receive your support, so we will support the Government's bill, because it really goes in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u13	Thank you. Although I reminded the informal agreement of the MPs that, in a legislative emergency, or in short-term law, we do not make factual remarks, I have the application. Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual remark. [[Inadmissible votes from members of the YES.]] And, of course, he has the right to step forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u14	I'm really not gonna stall. I just want to say, look around you, how many people are interested in voting on a law that will help those who pay us, what money we can be here, because we are here thanks to entrepreneurs, and so many Members are interested in helping them. So that's why I'm performing, and I just wanted to say that it would be polite if we all listened to it, so that we could respond so that we could help and really have a credible discussion of how we would help the most to make money necessary for the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u15	Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura, and then with a point of fact, Mr Pávek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u16	I wouldn't get it started, but there's a simple explanation. The key is how many Members will be here at the time of the vote. Members are present for our club, who have prepared amendments on behalf of our club and who will justify them here. I think for many other reasons, we agreed that if it wasn't strictly necessary, we wouldn't have to sit here every minute at 200. I think it is unfair to our colleagues, too, who are watching our actions outside the meeting room in their offices and so on. And that key number will be at the moment of the vote when we're at the third reading. So that we may also be fair to those who, unlike us, are not in the Chamber of Deputies at the moment. Again with another law, we may have other Members who address it as rapporteurs, it was in the committees they are members of. So let's be fair to our colleagues and not criticize them. Let's wait for the final vote on how many of us will be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u17	Thank you. Mr Pávek's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u18	Thank you for the floor. This is indeed a factual comment on the draft law submitted. As such, of course, it deserves the support of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, I have a great reservation on the way in which it is written, how parametric it is and how many bureaucratic loopholes there are. And it affects one group that no one has mentioned here before, and these are payroll accountants that aren't just in those businesses, if they're big enough to have their own payroll accountants, but especially the smallest ones who have external payroll accountants, they're really gonna go crazy. That's just so many parameters, so many changes, they're not set up with the software they work with. Then I would very much like the Ministry, no matter how the law passes, and I have no doubt that it will pass, and we will support it, by some methodology that will simplify and not complicate the situation this time, even those who are to process it, and these are the payroll accountants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u19	Thank you. And now, Mrs Šafránková will speak in the general debate. Mr. Bauer will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present our amendment to the Government Bill on the remission of social security premiums. With colleagues Radek Rozvoral and Míla Rozner, we propose to delete from the presented draft in § 2 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This adjustment would mean, first, the elimination of the minimum number of employees of authorised entities in those months when they will apply for waiver of the obligation to pay insurance as compared to March of this year. We also propose to abolish further conditions for the waiver of insurance premiums, one which sets out the minimum amount of the assessment bases for employees compared to the same indicator in March this year. In both of these cases, both as regards the number of employees and the sum of their assessment bases, the government requires that the rule of at least 90% of their value in the month when the employer will apply for the waiver of insurance premiums against March 2020, i.e. the pre-crisis situation, be fulfilled. The aim of our proposal is therefore to extend the range of employers who will be entitled to waiver of insurance payments. The conditions set by the government are very strict and restrictive, even in comparison with other compensations under emergency emergency measures. These conditions make it impossible for many honest employers to take advantage of the possibility of waiver of insurance premiums, which, due to the emergency situation, in particular due to the legal obligation to limit or completely interrupt their business activities, could not in any way maintain such a high number of employees, respectively. labour costs. Once again, this imaginary hammer affects the smallest entrepreneurs and employers. Government conditions are all the harder and harder to understand that another condition for this waiver is that it must be an employer who has not benefited from State aid in the form of compensation for wage costs from public money under the so-called Antivirus programme, which is often an entirely dominant cost item for employers. The state's approach to honest employers must be helpful and assistance in times of crisis should be primarily rapid, addressed, effective and fair. This government proposal does not come true. That is why we are coming up with our proposal, which I will take in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u21	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Jan Bauer will now appear. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u22	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said here today. The Civil Democratic Party welcomes the fact that the government has finally presented a proposal for a temporary remission of social contributions to companies. However, we would like to change - I have noted - the randomly defined parameters. I don't know if they're random, but in our opinion, they're not entirely optimal for this form of aid to really go towards a larger number of companies and not rule out the more active ones. Many of these companies are also in very serious conditions. If the government wants to start the economy again, and it has been said here, and to keep maximum jobs, it cannot limit its assistance in the form of remission of contributions only to small firms up to 50 employees. We come up with several proposals for changes that will expand the range of these companies and thus increase the chances of survival of many of them. This form of aid is very close to us, we have reported it many times, because the State does not subsidize the private sector through it, it does not add bureaucratic burdens, only leaves companies free funds that can be used for their restart. I repeatedly stressed on the Social Policy Committee yesterday that one of the big problems that companies have to solve today is cash flow, which means cash. And this, unlike what we approved 14 days ago, is really real help to compensate these companies for at least something. I would like to think very briefly of the several amendments that I tabled for the parliamentary club. Amendment 5426 - remission of contributions to all companies without a limit of 50 employees. We propose to abolish the condition of 50 employees and extend the possibility of paying reduced contributions for a given period to all companies. We are responding by this proposal to the fact that the Government's bill wants to allow a three-month abolition of social contributions for employers to only a very narrow circle of the smallest businesses, without explaining why such support should not be obtained by larger companies. With this limitation, the government has neglected employers who employ a significant majority of employees. I tried to count, maybe 3.7 million. As far as I know, the Chamber of Commerce's investigation also shows, the problems of businesses would be greatly mitigated by the temporary abolition of the payment of compulsory payments by an entrepreneur, in a similar way to those of self-employed workers. The second proposal, which I would like to present or imagine, is registered under number 5427 in the system. This is a reduction in the conditions of wage decline. This proposal sets out the sum of the assessment bases for employees in employment at least 70 per cent instead of the government's proposed 90 per cent. In other words, the government's proposed 10% decline is clearly too harsh a condition. Firms at this time reduce wages to survive at all. On the other hand, I consider the proposed decline in wages to be a reasonable and balanced condition. Another amendment concerning the co-operation with Antivirus is the amendment in the system under number 5425. This amendment addresses the issue of co-operation with the Antivirus programme. At the same time, it proposes to allow the Antivirus programme to compete with companies that, while receiving support from one individual, manage to keep most of their employees at work at the same time. Personally, I consider the association with Antivir not on the company, but on the employees really as very beneficial and I would very much like it to be accepted. The last amendment in the system under number 5424 is the variants of companies up to 500 employees plus the release of the condition of maintaining volumes at 90 percent. We are suggesting to increase the staff limit to 500 compared to the 50 proposed by the government, while at the same time this proposal releases the condition of maintaining the total staff bases at 90 per cent per month in March and leaves only the criterion of maintaining 90 per cent of employees. I don't know if I still have time, Mr Vice-President, but at the very end maybe one critical thing. Yesterday, on the Committee on Social Policy, we dealt with one really, really bad thing that, in my opinion, got into legislation 14 days ago. We have dealt with this resolution on the Committee on Social Policy by canceling the recently shortened approval of the deadline for employers to send applications and employee notices to the Czech Social Security Administration. I repeat and recall that this change came into the law, in my view, by an unobserved label to the recently approved Covido Act on the remission of penalties for deferment of social contributions. It's come up a lot in the media, too. I must very much appreciate that, since this amendment, not only officially in the media, but also yesterday on the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Hanka Aulická Jírovcová also gave her hands away. I think that in this detail we have heard the call from practice and we are returning the eight-day deadline to the original form, as the legislation was still in force 14 days ago. So that's all for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u23	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová will now appear. Mr Petr Beitl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of the Pirates Club, I'd like to say that we're just kind of unhappy that the law is only coming now. Forgiveing social security insurance was something I think the entire opposition suggested that it might have been sooner. It would be very helpful. So it's a good thing it's here. It's just a shame we're not a month, a month and a half back. Specifically, the boundaries that my previous speakers have already mentioned. We believe that this will lead to unfortunate layoffs, for example, for companies with 51, 52 employees, that it is pointless to make it so strongly that even the budgetary considerations that apparently led the Ministry of Finance to oppose are not so serious. And if the pirát' amendment, which I will read in a detailed debate, were accepted, we would only propose that it be forgiven for 50 employees in companies with a size of up to 250 people, so that the company by 60, by 70 employees would simply be forgiven for the 50, but not completely punished, it would not have a forgiven zero. Because now, as the government coalition suggests, there will be an incredible injustice between companies the size of 49 people versus 52, 55, 60 people. [[12.00 hours]] This removal of the hardness of the proposal, once again I say, is likely to fail the Minister of Finance's concerns. But since the Minister is sitting here, I would still like to ask her: "Dear Minister Schillerová, isn't the great sense of injustice that will arise in those slightly larger companies, but still small, useless companies? The budgetary implications won't be as big as that, because the vast majority of companies are smaller, that's okay, but the companies at the border are going to wonder how others are forgiven for 50 employees and we're forgiven for zero. That doesn't make sense! So I would like very much, Madam Secretary, for your comments on this aspect. And the other thing is the limit of 10 per cent, that more than 10 per cent could not fall in wages and could not fall in employment. This rule completely excludes companies from the most affected sectors. Imagine a hotel, imagine a pub, so tourism and hospitality these conditions, I don't know anyone who could meet them. And it's not entirely logical not to help the most handicapped. So again, I understand that the Ministry wants to encourage employment so that people are not released, but at least reducing this hard line to 70 percent from our point of view makes sense. It's mine. It's important because of the question mark on the infirmary. If people are in the infirmary, is it really not going to count, like there were reduced wage charges and that means the company isn't actually entitled? That is an incredibly important question for Minister Maláčová. Finally, once again - we support the proposal, we said from the beginning that forgiving the levy is the easiest way to do it administratively. And it's only a pity it wasn't a little earlier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u25	Have a nice noon. Another Member in the general debate is Mr Petr Beitl and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank both the Ministry and the Minister in advance for coming up with this instrument that will help many companies overcome difficult times. I believe that this is, in fact, the second specific instrument of assistance after the remission of minimum social and health payments. All other so-called helping me is more of a tool for maintaining employment. Well, at Antivir, his subtitle is really like that. This is not an instrument to support entrepreneurs, but an instrument to maintain employment. And even with the help of this instrument, employers have more than they can bear. If you want information from the field, the company that the state forbids to do business falls into Antivirus, is entitled to 80 per cent of the contribution, so by opting that the claim is given only up to 39,000 supergross wages, so it reaches 60 per cent of its wage costs. This means that the company that the state closes must account for 40% of its wage costs without sales so that its employees can be at home at 100 percent, already mentioned by colleague Bláha. And I really find it very naughty, I'm not afraid of the word that the state will ask for the 40 percent of the wages because the employee really couldn't make the money, the employer couldn't make the money, he basically had to prove it, and I find it very absurd to pay taxes out of the unearned money. And I'm not even talking about the fact that, of course, employers always have to pay those payouts first, and then they can ask for a donation, which, of course, has a huge negative effect on the cash flow of those companies. Well, if the companies survived, a colleague talked about it before me, in those crisis sectors affected by the fact that they were completely closed, so now they can get to this help and expect them to meet other criteria. And those criteria are, as has been said, very strict. The 10 per cent of the stocks and 10 per cent of the wage contributions paid at a time when the market has not yet been far off, can essentially only work for companies that have not been affected or have been affected very little. The really disabled look straight out of the system. I did not put my amendments together until the moment I found that my fellow Members' amendments were unlikely to be supported. These are the proposals in terms of these criteria to change, soften. And I prepared a completely retreat option that would still allow some companies to go for that help, and they felt that the help was fair. Indeed, when we talk about the number of employees at the end of October and we refer to the concept of employment, I believe that employment or the measure should be concerned in order to avoid redundancies due to the coronavirus economic crisis. But they still have employees in that set who could have quit the company without getting fired for organizational reasons, and that's the point of my proposal. The design is a variant, it has two variants, variant A and variant B. The difference between the variants is that the one lists specific working relationships that would not be concerned, and the other one refers to it in general, i.e. does not include or take into account the relevant period and the decisive number of persons who should be counted, employees who have completed employment for reasons other than the statement under Section 52 of the Labour Code, these are organisational reasons. For example, these are people who were on probation or people who had fixed - term employment contracts. Let's remember that 31. 3. is such an optical end of the first quarter, it is the end of the winter season and companies that operate seasonally conclude their employment contracts so that at this very time people finish. If someone gets a week, it would really be sad if these people had an effect on the company's ability to go for help or not. The next group to which this could happen are small companies, companies under ten people. Because if we're talking about 10 percent that the company can reduce its condition, then at the moment when the company has nine employees and one ended up in a trial period, it's basically no longer able to meet those criteria. So with everything I've said here, and what we see around us when we've been here for a week in Prague and we're going through empty streets and we're seeing blind windows closed and we see how the economy is slowed down, I'd ask you to comply, if possible, with my colleagues' amendments, because if they were to be accepted, I can withdraw this amendment because it really concerns the points of individuals. But if the amendments are not approved, I ask you to at least take this institute and give the next circle of companies a chance to touch that support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u27	Now I'll read the apologies. I have here first, Mrs Dana Balcarová apologizes for working reasons from 13.45 pm. And then Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes between 12.30 and 14 hours for family reasons. I will now ask for Mr Jiří Bláha's speech and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologize for my outrage at the first stage when I got out. And I'd like to invite everyone into the hall with the fact that I realize that, of course, this subject is purely business. But believe me, if we discuss this well and move it forward, we might even be able to set up what it might look like in the next crisis. [[12.10 hours]] At the next stage, I'd like to thank you for having a C in the world. First of all, I would like to thank the MIT and, more specifically, the people around Mr Vinkler, who have been tirelessly presenting every meeting with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs since March, how this could all look. They lasted, they persevered, until we succeeded in having some initial proposal. Of course, I don't think he's happy because he limits a lot of things. Let me just give you one example of my practice again. As a baker who wants to take care of himself, I have a total of 200 employees, but for example my friendly company in Moravia has 350 of them, and we have facilities that are in the centers of the cities as the bakers have, and these establishments have operated even though they were forbidden to provide coffee to the coffee tables, plus the pastries, which makes up to 50 percent of the turnover of these companies, and these companies have fallen to 25 percent of their turnover. But thanks to all the measures created, this means promoting employment A and B, so they didn't achieve anything at all, and the world, wonder, 90 percent of the bakers in this field didn't do anything because they had to or wanted to have their operations open. Of course, customers didn't go to them because the cities were empty, and no baker can bake only for one establishment and close the other. I just can't make these buns like I'm gonna bake ten buns or a hundred. If I have any production volume, I always have to bake to the minimum. And these companies aren't entitled to anything today, and they have a very difficult role to play in the market that, in fact, the sitting needs to meet some parameters - distance from each other, regular disinfection after anyone who sits with it. All of this comes to the fact that the employer actually has to have a lot more people at work, and so he doesn't have to touch any of Antivirus A and B's support again. And that is why I have prepared an amendment, and of course I am right to the colleagues and previous speakers who have acted before me here, that, as prepared by the C, it is discriminatory and we should proceed completely but completely differently. But we're all happy for that, at least to help the smallest, but as it was said here, if I have five employees and one of them has decided to leave, I'm not entitled. That's true until I'm nine, and if I have ten and two of them decided not to work for me, then I'm not entitled. So these are all things that nobody takes into account. I have prepared an amendment which will be inserted or is inserted under number 5440 and should read as follows: The limitation of the number of employees does not apply in the case of companies whose establishments provide a full but partial range of catering services with food and drink consumption at the premises of the establishment. The right to waiver shall apply only to employees working in such establishments. And I'm just gonna justify it. There are large companies, as I said, which have 350, 400, 500 employees who have their establishments in the city centers and have not closed for one day or one hour, are still in place, and to this day they have not really touched on one of the aids, they are not entitled to rent, they are not entitled to Antivirus, they are not entitled to anything, and this would help them immensely. And what else is very important to be heard? A lot of companies in the catering facilities, and we don't have to lie to each other, employs employees with a system: here I'll give you 15 ofico and the rest on your hand. And there's a lot of honest companies, and these companies are the sharpest. And here we would send a clear message to the honest: we want to support you for not locking you up, we want to support you for being honest, and we want to support you mainly for working for the citizens of this country at the time of the crisis and at the cost of your own health. So that's about it. I would like to conclude by thanking you once again, but thank those who did not close their shops at the time of the coronation and really sold at the cost of their own health, were available daily from 6:00 a.m. to late hours and put on their own health for you to buy a crispy roll or something pleasant to eat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u29	There. I'll read another apology. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from 12.15 to 14.00 for personal reasons. I will now ask Mr Jan Skopeček to speak and prepare Mrs Hana Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u30	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. I'm joining in with a positive message. I also like the law in quotation marks, and I consider it beneficial for the labour market and for the Czech economy. I always think that in support it is better to reduce taxes, reduce the levy burden, i.e. leave the funds, leave the money right in the home, in this case right in the company, than it is difficult to collect them first and then redistribute them through the public sector, which has its costs and is not the most just. So this measure, this direction of reducing the levy and tax burden, especially in this crisis period, is, of course, the best way to help the Czech economy, Czech employers, but especially in the final of employees. This proposal leaves money to companies, makes jobs cheaper, and so it can be expected to save a lot of jobs, which is certainly a positive report. It is well known that in the Czech Republic we have above average high taxes on labour, labour costs, and it is also well known that we have an above-average high share of these contributions on the part of employers who pay these contributions for their employers. [[Staff]] We are in the OECD countries, together with France, Belgium, at the top of this levy burden, which affects employers in particular, which, of course, we will not know in good times when the economy is growing and unemployment is low, but it does not, of course, pay off at a time when the economy is in recession, because if employers are overly burdened with contributions to jobs, it leads in those times of crisis to the fact that employers in such countries, with these high levies, are, of course, releasing workers more quickly and, on the other hand, in reviving the economy, they are hiring workers as soon as possible later than those countries that do not have such high contributions on the employers' side. Of course, I would prefer to reduce the above-average contributions in the Czech Republic, but I understand that there is no political will and that there is no ability to prepare a systemic pension reform that would allow this, and forgiveness for three months is at least a small positive swallow in this direction. The problematic aspects of this law are that there are parameters quite strictly set up, which may mean that many companies that need this assistance will not reach it, whether it concerns the need to maintain 90% of the wage. It could simply have been that responsible entrepreneurs, instead of firing some employees, could have agreed with them, even on a time-limited decline in wages, so that they could save jobs in their businesses, and they would, of course, be excluded from such support. [[12.20 hours]] Another problem that I see is the narrow definition of enterprises up to 50 employees, which this aid, this relief, is intended to cover. I will therefore support what was prepared by my colleague Jan Bauer, who is releasing the entire condition of the number of employees. I consider that to be the best proposal, and it will have my support. As well as parameters of a higher number of employees, enterprises with a higher number of employees. That will have my support and I will vote primarily in favour. If it had not received the aid, I would have taken the liberty of submitting an amendment extending the aid to firms up to 250 employees. This has its logic, because 250 employees are the number with which the Accounting Act operates as a medium-sized enterprise. So if the better proposal that would help the Czech economy more, from my colleague Jan Bauer's pen, would not pass, I would ask for the support of my compromise option, which would extend relief to businesses into 250 employees, with 250 employees being defined in the Accounting Act as a medium-sized enterprise. It should be added that small and medium-sized enterprises employ two thirds of employees in the Czech economy and are more than half involved in the added value of the Czech economy, so this support would affect a relatively large part of our economy and help more than the Minister suggests in his original proposal. That's all. Thank you for your attention and I am ready to vote in favour of this law. And if the government comes up with further reductions in the levy burden and taxes, then of course it has my support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u31	I have a point of fact here, so I'm going to ask Mrs. Golasowská. Madam Hana Aulická will be ready. It's already ready. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, I have made a point, because I would really like to make a brief point, and I do not want to delay other speakers in the general debate. I would just like to say that we support all amendments on behalf of KDU-ČSL, as has actually already happened on the Committee on Social Policy. We will also support the bill as a whole, because we think that employers really deserve it. As I say, if those amendments were to pass, that would be nice, because they would concern a wider group of employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u33	I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Hana Aulická and Mr Jiří Bláha will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say on behalf of the KSČM club that, of course, we support this government proposal. We are aware of the whole situation that is in practice. Perhaps I would also support yesterday's communication of Mr Bauer on the Committee on Social Policy, because we also thought a little bit that the proposal, when it has been discussed for about two or three months, is de facto coming up now and the employers see really great help in this, and some are already deciding on the future of their companies and the fate of other employees today, and this is one of the crucial things that makes them decide whether or not to continue their business. Maybe the debate is here about whether 50 employees are chosen correctly. There are several amendments, either cancel it completely or push it forward. I think the discussion about this is very correct. In any case, we also perceive other assistance that is carried out in other subsidy programmes. I have to say that some entrepreneurs, as I spoke to them, tell me that for some of the programs that I think are from the Ministry of Trade and Industry's workshop, they de facto shut down completely, because the process was very difficult and rather did not know how to get there, and they tried to help themselves or by helping themselves more or less. It's just a fact, and I don't think there's gonna be a lot of things going on here after all this big trouble. I would just like to say here that we will support the amendment for the KSČM club, which is from Mr Bauer's workshop and is the same as my amendment which I tabled yesterday in the Committee on Social Policy. This concerns the correction from the last vote, where it occurs that reports for employees who either enter or terminate the employment relationship should be reported to the Czech Administration within two working days of eight calendar days. I already commented on this issue yesterday in the Committee on Social Policy. I confessed myself that I did not really know about this particular proposal when I submitted my amendment. I must say, personally, I am very sorry that this has come to this at all. It was all in a hurry. I admit, in any case, I am not one to put such matters forward, because I am aware of the situation in practice, and I cannot imagine if it remains from 1. 9. for two days, as it would look. On the contrary, I think the Czech administration would be much more busy getting any data and information at all. That is why I am glad that yesterday in the Committee on Social Policy, in fact, the proposal by Mr Bauer was almost unanimous, identical to mine. I am convinced that this will correct a mistake that will probably never come from me again, because I have declared that I will not submit anything at all for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you so much for me. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u35	Mr Jiří Bláha is the last to be heard in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u36	I'd like to review what didn't come up. I would like to thank you once again for the fact that the law has come into being. I would like to thank everyone for being very responsible and proposing really clear adjustments. I would like to assure the two ministers sitting here today that if we actually approve anything, I believe the state will not lose anything. And it is only because believe that if we do not approve of any of the amendments, there will be an increase in fraud in the way companies behave, they will have nothing left. So either they start firing on one side or they start cheating on the other side. When they start firing, we know it at the employment offices, of course the costs will increase. If they start cheating, we'll still pay them the money in the form of an "A" and a "B," but most importantly, when we free up the rules for a larger number of companies, we'll get to the fact that we'll have enormously reduced the costs that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as the surrounding ministries, have with it today. I'm sure you've all read that the cost is CZK 180 for one hundred crown paid. In that moment, it's actually losing its meaning. We would have come to the conclusion that we would have saved all these funds. But what's more, we'd save the jobs for those companies that are having a lot of trouble processing the whole thing today. And I will tell you from my own experience how it works. [[12.30 hours]] It is true that the payroll accountant and the chief economist sits for at least two days to send what they have already processed to the employment office in order. But what was before, every company needed to reduce its costs and has some clear idea of what money it could fit into. And now he doesn't know how it's gonna work out at the end when he gives that employee so much money and so much more money. So when it comes to supporting antivirus mode B, you actually have to de facto recalculate the wage several times. This means that you're going to propose yes, I'm going to give him 90 percent of how much of it is going to cost me in total, and it's going to take an incredible time, and it's going to give him an incredible amount of work, and everyone can't do it. So the people who process it, including the executives, who are in charge of it and who then judge - will the employee be happy with this at all, will it still come to work? - so all of these are incredibly overloaded and, of course, mentally fractured. So if I hear here that some of you have been working for 16 hours, believe me, these workers, too, including executives, etc. So let's think about it. I believe that if we loosened up, we'd save money as a result. And that corresponds with the fact that I would like to ask us to think about how this could work in the event of another crisis. And I have a solution. When we do this simply, it means that we postpone, I point out we postpone, most of the taxes, VAT payments and other taxes for firms limited, closed or affected for the duration of the government regulation, so we actually create the space to, for example, in six months' time, be able, on the basis of a check report that the Ministry of Finance has every month, or the VAT report that the Ministry of Finance has every month, to decide how much of the individual companies we will allow them not to have to pay anything. And it could just be back to what they did last year. That means, yes, Blá, you did 60 million last year, just like my firm did in the state register, on all charges and payments, so we divide it by 12, that's 5 million per month, and at that point well, you were limited for three months, so, yeah, we're gonna let all the delays you had be up to a maximum of 15 million. And it's simply processed, it's easy to check and, of course, no one's gonna cheat us by saying that he gave that employee so much money and he agreed to give him back the money. Or the fact that he's actually stating that the employee wasn't working, even though the employee was working. All of this can simply be done. And we sit here, we check, we process, we do, it costs us money, time, but those firms don't have the money to work. So I'd like you to think about it, and let's get this all set up in the next possible time. Now, let's finish this up and believe that if we disengage it to any number, we'll save it on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u37	Now with priority rights as last to report to Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Let me respond to some of the performances that have fallen. First of all, to Mr Stanjura, who is not here in the hall, why only up to 50 employees. I would like to remind you of the established definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we are developing from. And it's not true that companies with 51 employees are unlucky. That's not true, please. I'm warning you that the whole system fits together, its individual parts, and it's designed to make sense together. Firms over 50 employees still have the opportunity to draw from program B, from Antivirus program B, and do it very intensively. I mentioned that 820 000 jobs were supported in the Antivirus programme yesterday, and it should also be mentioned that in March the A regime prevailed - I can then deliver the specific statistics or you can find them on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - but since April the B regime, which means related economic difficulties, prevails. This means under Mode A, it was popular and popular especially in March, these are companies that we closed down plus those companies that had their employees quarantined, and related economic difficulties, program B, is starting to prevail. I would also like to point out that those companies that are not entitled to either Antivirus or are now not included in this C, which means they have more than 50 employees, so they still have the opportunity to postpone their social security payments for three months. That's the law that was passed here recently, two weeks ago, and last week, if I recall correctly, it was approved by the Senate. This means Antivirus A, B, the possibility of deferring payments, and I remind you that in July we will know the numbers, which sector was hit most during the second quarter of this year, in July we will know those numbers. And then there's also this C right now. I was also asked how the average wage was fixed. So logically it is defined in the law, § 23 para. 4, and these are data from the Czech Statistical Office. That means the average wage is defined in the law, only in another place. I have also been asked whether we believe that the double criterion of 90 per cent will not be difficult to maintain. We don't think it will. I warn you that in March, because the discussions originally related to February, we softened it and shifted it as if the reference framework of March, because in March, at least half a month, a large part of the companies had already had a lot of employees to work incapacity, quarantine and infirmary. That means they don't count on the March survey base. On the other hand, in June, we expect the number of caregivers to fall because only a smaller group of people will benefit from the treatment of a family member. For your information, in March, the Czech Social Security Administration registered 343,000 incompetents, which means incapacity for work, 36,000 of them quarantined and 150,000 infirmaries. I think that these amounts are huge, and that is why we chose that month of March as the reference framework. There's been a fall, too, why the law doesn't come until now. I warn you that on March of April we had a regime where we were actually keeping the system closed, then we only started to gradually relax after Easter and for this period it was much more advantageous for most of the companies concerned, when we did not know the light at the end of the tunnel, the Antivirus program. And once again, A - 80 per cent supergross wages, B - 60 per cent supergross wages and, on the other hand, the remission of contributions. Now we want to motivate the companies that are starting, it's C that actually connects to A and B. It is not built on obstacles at work and compared to 80, respectively. 60 per cent of the supergross wage is 25 per cent of the gross wage very disadvantageous. But we want to motivate companies that are starting to go back to normal. And once again, since April, the system of economic difficulties has actually begun to prevail for us, that is the regime B. In order to handle this administratively, we propose to forgive the charges. It is 88 percent of the companies concerned, 1.5 million employees, and beyond that, it really needs to be perceived in the context, we also have an approved law, the possibility of deferment of social insurance for those companies that are in difficulty at very low interest. Once again, on Mrs Richterová's particular example, I would like to show why B is much more advantageous for the hotel in question. When a hotel is closed or has no customers, it does not have a job for its employees, so according to the Labour Code it assigns them to obstacles at work. This means that it can draw on the Antivirus B program. It's 69 percent of the supergross wage, and it's much more favourable than 25 percent of the gross wage, which is C, which we're discussing right now. [[12.40 hours]] And I beg to differ. It's not too late. The real system is built so that March, April, part of May we expect that if the economy was closed, if government measures were in place, so companies couldn't function, and now we're trying to motivate them right from June, to help them financially get back to normal. And I would remind you that the June insurance is due until July 20th. This means that it is not too late, on the contrary, individual measures are taking place. As far as the criteria are concerned, yes, those criteria are strict, but for the vast majority of those small, medium-sized enterprises they are real. That's how we set up the system. We worked very strictly with data. And I point out once again that this is a promotion of employment and consumption. That means, that's why the 90 percent so companies don't fire when they get state support. Therefore, the 90 percent wage volume in order to avoid a sharp decline in wages and thus a decrease in consumption in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u39	Now, one more point of fact. So far it is the last application in the general debate, so Mr Jiří Bláha. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond. It's just impossible not to react. I'd like to apologize to the Minister, but it's obvious here that she just graduated from political economics. And the normal economy is completely different. Just a B company that provides hospitality can't draw anything at all. Because at the moment he has increased costs and an increased number of employees in the company. Because he has to wipe the table after every guest. And that can't be the cook who cooks and waits for the customer to come. That can't be the waitress running on the set, on a much bigger set, because the tables had to loosen up. And if they used to be 100 square meters, they might be on three floors today. I just can't. So these companies have increased costs, they don't draw anything, and they have over a hundred employees. Or 300. I have, as I was telling you, a company that is on the other side of our republic has 350 employees. And she hasn't drawn a crown in three months. They had their shops open, they didn't draw a penny! And they went to 50 percent of their normal, but in some months even 25 percent. And delaying social payments doesn't solve anything. That just makes you more indebted. So you're going to postpone your payment, and then you're going to pay even more. And you didn't actually make any money because you had to have those people at the job. All those costs to pay. Drainage and so forth. That's not the answer. I write about it to the secretary every week. Every week I try to communicate with everyone. And I think we got along just fine. The MIT was preparing too much, a million inputs to get it all straightened out, and we were in the same boat. I believed you would. [[Time.]] But what I'm hearing, it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u41	So, anyway, no one else is logged in, so if you want to continue the general debate, I won't encourage you. So now I'm going to look around the O.R. to see if anyone else has anything to say about the general debate. I see no one else, so I am ending the general debate. I'll read three apologies. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologizes from 13:30 to the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. Mr Marian Bojko apologizes from 13.15 to the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. She apologizes to Mrs Pavla Golasowská limit 12.30 to midnight, or by the end of the day. So, I am now ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. No, no. So I'm opening up a detailed debate. And I recall that the amendments, other proposals made in the detailed debate, must always be justified. Mrs Lucie Šafránková, Mrs. Lucie Šafránková, first applied for the floor. Mr. Jan Bauer will be ready. Well, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I have already justified in the general debate. The system is run under the number of House document 5383. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u43	So, I will now ask for Mr Jan Bauer's speech and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u44	I hereby subscribe to my four amendments. Number one, number 5424, for another 5425. Here I would just like to point out that it is not legislatively technical that in Section 5, the first sentence is deleted. That's on the recommendation of our legislation. I also apply to the amendment under number 5426 and subsequently 5427. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u45	I will now request the floor of Mrs Olga Richterová and Mr Petr Beitl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u46	Hello. I am applying to Amendment 5446. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u47	So, I will now ask for the floor of Mr Petr Beitl and Mr Jiří Bláha will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u48	Hello, I'm applying to Amendment 5422. It has two variants A, B. These variations are only different in the formulation, but their meaning is identical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u49	I will now ask for Mr Jiří Bláha's speech and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u50	I'm signing up for my proposal 5440. And it's for all the reasons I've listed here. It's for companies that at the moment must have an increased number of employees in the workplace, so they can't touch the A's or the B's. They can't just leave the employees at home. They're trying to do the service for all of you, but they don't have the money, they don't have the profits. So please, really pay attention to my proposal 5440, because it's all the bakers, the pastry chefs, and all those who prepare your mornings from five breakfasts, snacks, then home shopping and end at 9:00 p.m. And they're always available for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u51	I will now ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will be the last to prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u52	Thank you. I am applying to the amendment that I have put into the system under number 5429. This concerns extending the concession from businesses to 50 employees to businesses to 250 employees, regardless of whether they are bakers, pastry makers, but it applies to all types of activities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u53	And the last to speak is Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment put into Mrs Markéta Adamová's system under number 5443. This proposal proposes to waive insurance premiums for all companies without distinction of the number of employees, so that state aid is not limited by a discriminatory condition eliminating undertakings over 50 employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u55	Now I'm going to look around and see if there's anyone else. Mrs Šafránková in a detailed debate. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize, but I have given the wrong number of the House document and I hereby sign up for the document under number 5353. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-002-003.u57	Yes, that was last minute. So now I am ending the general debate and asking whether there is interest in the final words. You're not interested. And so I end the second reading of this proposal. And if I've got the deal right, we're going to interrupt the hearing now, and we're going to go to the next press at second reading. Now, before discussing the government bill, which is item number
