ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u1	53. Government bill amending Act No. 257/2001 Coll., on libraries and conditions for the operation of public library and information services (library law), as amended, Act No. 37/1995 Coll., on non-periodical publications, as amended, and Act No. 46/2000 Coll., on the Rights and Obligations of the Publishing of Periodical Press and on the Amendment of Some Other Acts (Print Act), as amended /Departmental Press 646/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said by Mr President, I should present to you at first reading the Library Act and the conditions for the operation of public library and information services. What is the nature of the law? We live in a world that is changing quite dramatically. The way in which information is provided is also changing. And the fundamental change the law brings is that it responds to the increase in information that is in electronic form, whether it concerns electronic books or various electronic documents. So the addition of the library law concerns what is now called web harvesting. What's that? So it's kind of like collecting, actually mapping and storing selected electronic information in all the publishing houses and ways they offer today. It can be divided into non-periodical publications, electronic books and periodic electronic documents. And in fact, this law introduces a new obligation for publishers, whose essence is that, as has been the case for published books and periodicals so far, it would now be true that publishers would provide - but only the National Library to make it easier, only the National Library would provide a copy of non-periodical publications in electronic form, meaning electronic books, and it would also cover selected periodicals, which are in electronic form, so it would also provide one mandatory copy or document to the National Library. So it is precisely this introduction of a new obligation - the submission of such mandatory electronic periodic and non-periodic publications to the National Library. The National Library will concentrate. That's how she's gonna collect it with that web harvest. And then, of course, she will create databases from these required electronic copies, and then she will have access to them by law to other libraries and institutions in the country. This means, from what the National Library collects, then this electronic information will be collected periodically and non-periodic and can be used by other libraries in the country. So, of course, the way this is happening, it's also laid down in the law. Of course, it must be in accordance with the copyright law. The content is then further accessible to all other possible readers and regions through other libraries. This is basically what this law introduces as a new form of working with electronic information that responds to the current state of the world around us. I would like to say that what is therefore proposed there and what should now be implemented under this bill has been discussed both with librarians, quite widely with the library community, and also with the publisher. So all the parties involved in this were part of the discussion. And actually, the proposal I'm proposing to you, I can say that it is the result of a consensus between librarians, publishers and the Ministry. I would also like to remind you that the special regime will have those electronic publications that are intended for people with visual impairment, because the recipient will be a printer, or a library and a printer for the blind, which we have as an organization within the Ministry of Culture. It's similar to what we have today in conjunction with the appendix, so let's say there's one sub-chapter that concerns people with visual impairment and their ability to access the electronically distributed and transmitted information. [[17,00 hours]] In addition to this amendment, the law does not contain any further conceptual changes and all existing procedures, the obligations of libraries to each other remain maintained. So all the changes in this law really are just those that necessarily follow up on the public interest, which is the preservation and transfer of electronic information. It is only that which is subject to the modifications that I present to you. And it's the only meaning and meaning of the changes. So I suggest that the law here, which changes what I have just described, should be passed to second reading and that we discuss it, and I wish that we release it to second reading today. That's all I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u3	Thank you. Now, Mr Munzar has asked me to take one previous vote, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u4	Thank you, Mr President, do not worry, I will not question the vote. Only for the minutes: in the vote number 152, I voted in favour and abstained in the record. So it's just for the tape screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u5	Thank you and I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Hyťhová, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u6	Thank you for the floor. So I would briefly say what this proposal concerns. It is a government bill from the Ministry of Culture, which changes three laws, namely Act No. 257/2001 Coll., No. 46/2000 Coll. and No. 37/1995 Coll. The proposed legislation aims to ensure the acquisition, processing, storage and making available of electrical documents in response to new technologies and the growing cultural and social importance of electronic publications, documents and other information sources and the development of the information society - those documents that are only available through electronic devices - information and data as part of the national cultural heritage - for the purpose of normal library practice. As has already been mentioned here, this is mainly the National Library. The fundamental and main changes therefore include the incorporation of the obligation to collect selected data and information published through the Information Society services by the National Library, including the collection of freely available electronic periodic printing. Furthermore, allowing and storing data and information published through information society services within the activities of the National Library and the acquisition of a database of such data and information. Providing access to authorised libraries, access to data obtained and information published through information society services. Furthermore, this also concerns the incorporation of the obligation of publishers to submit compulsory copies of each edition of an electronic non-periodic publication to the designated recipients. Furthermore, this concerns ensuring access to authorised libraries and making available the electronic compulsory copies obtained. This proposal also amends two decrees which would enter into force from 1 January 2022. And otherwise, I think it's all been said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u7	Thank you. I am opening a debate in which Mrs Melková is the only one to be joined at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I also have a need to express myself, although the Minister has already said a great deal here about what is going on in this amendment. This new legislation therefore responds to the development of new technologies, we have heard that here and to the needs of the information society. At the same time, it allows memory institutions to make appropriate use of these options. The proposal is based on an effort to maintain as much as possible the existing structure of legislation as possible in order to intervene as little as possible. It responds to the current massive onset of distribution of electronic content of various types in intangible form through communication networks. The ambition of this proposal is not to rebuild the legal regime of non-periodical publications and press law, which is then related to the copyright law. The proposal submitted has one basic objective, namely to extend the obligation to submit a compulsory copy to selected electronic publications. And it is also not an ambition to address the digitalisation issue itself, which is actually a very broad subject that is currently interfering with the copyright area that we do not want to address here. To conclude, then, I would just like to add that the adoption of the proposed legislation is necessary in order to preserve the sources of information acquired electronically as an important component of cultural heritage. That's all I'm saying, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-011-053.u9	Thank you, too, and that was the only application for the debate. So if no one else is reporting, I'm ending the debate at this point. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. because we're going to vote. First, then, we will consider the proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone have a proposal for another guarantee committee? That is not the case, in which case I am opening the vote. I ask who is for the commandment to this committee as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 155 vote, 142 Members and Members are registered, for 130, against no one. I note that we have ordered the proposal to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose ordering this press to the next committee. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? It's not like that. There have also been no other proposals that we should vote on at this point. So I thank the plaintiff and rapporteur, and this is the end of the discussion. Next is point number
