ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u1	7. The draft law amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and on the amendment of certain laws (water law), as amended, and other related laws /German press 556/9/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 556/10. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Petr Orl among us. First, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman, or another authorised representative of the applicant, the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec, for the appellants for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. The Minister of Agriculture is present and is asking for the floor with his move. So, Minister, you have the floor. I'll ask for some peace in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u2	So hello, Mr President, Madame Members. Let me briefly comment on the draft amendment to Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on Waters, and other related laws. This material, this law was drafted jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment. It is based on the concept of protection against the consequences of climate change for the territory of the Czech Republic. As part of the discussion of the draft law in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, a number of amendments were tabled and subsequently adopted, which fall into different areas, not only the Water Act. The proposal was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 18 September 2020. The draft law was discussed on 13 November 2020 by the Senate, which decided by its resolution to return the draft law to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments concerning, first, the administrative simplification of the removal of water works in order to restore the natural troughs of small watercourses, and, secondly, legislative technical adaptations due, inter alia, to the length of the legislative process of the draft law in the Chamber of Deputies. I agree with these amendments and I believe that they will contribute to improving this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that Senator Petr Orel take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, Dear Government, Ministers, allow me to introduce you briefly and to justify the amendments to the Water Act approved by the Senate at its meeting on 13 November this year. Maybe in general first. The Minister has already said some things, but in general on the amendments. The amendment introduced a reporting regime for the removal of specified waterworks in small watercourses with a view to administrative simplification of the removal of existing and no longer useful waterworks in small watercourses for the purpose of their naturalisation. Renaturation. Furthermore, a year later, the obligation to measure the amount of water collected from customers with reduced limits in a total quantity of at least 1000 cc of water in a calendar year or 100 cc of water in a calendar month and the obligation to transmit the results of this measurement was postponed. At the same time, the amendment corrects some of the legislative shortcomings of this bill. As the Minister has already said, there is agreement on the amendments and they have the support of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment and they are also supported by river basin managers because they are very concerned. More detailed on the renatures. The aim of the amendment is to allow for the cessation of legal existence of longitudinal technical adaptations to troughs in the form of an announcement made by the owner of the waterworks in question, which is almost always the watercourse administrator. The details of the reporting regime are set out in the new Section 15c of the Water Act, and the relevant provisions of the Construction Act shall apply mutatis mutandis. The proposed termination of the legal existence of the waterworks, acceptance of the relevant declaration by the Water Authority has an administrative character, does not raise claims for changes to the ground plan, respectively. land layout. The Water Authority must assess whether the notification is sufficient and then issue an appropriate decision. The amendment introduces a new § 15c into the law governing the reporting regime for the removal of specified waterworks in small watercourses and further reflects this adaptation into the definition of natural small watercourses, that is § 44 para. The Commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) i). Another amendment is the possibility for the Water Authority to impose or allow the owner of the waterworks exceptional handling on the waterworks beyond the approved handling order. The point is that, as amended, this is amended by Paragraph 59 (1) of the EC Treaty. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 4. So in this case, the amendment is purely legislatively technical and corrects the reference correctly. A further proposal amending this amendment introduces an obligation to measure the amount of water collected for customers with reduced limits in the total quantity of 1000 cc of water in a calendar year or 100 cc of water in a calendar month, as well as the obligation to pass on the results of this measurement. The obligation to measure the quantity of water that is eligible for collection shall be established for the first time in 2022 and the results of that measurement shall be transmitted by the authorised authority by 31 January 2023 at the latest. The point is that the addressees of this law, due to the length of the legislative process, would have a month to buy new water meters and other matters. For this reason, it is proposed to postpone the effectiveness of this law and, once again, I can say that this proposal for a change of terms goes from the appellants of this law. The next amendment is again more of a legislative technical matter. There was no authorisation for the competent authority to issue a generally binding regulation in relation to the level of treatment of sanitary protection of utility water and the manner in which it was demonstrated. Amendment on the basis of § 3 para. 7 is supplemented to issue the relevant implementing regulation of the Ministry of Health. In view of the length of the legislative process, the efficacy already deferred for the provisions of Article 5, points 3 and 4, which is effective in relation to the Water and Sewer Act and which relates to 1 January 2021, does not appear to be effective. Therefore, the amendment sets effectiveness on the first day of the second calendar month following its publication, as well as on the draft law. Small water flows represent about 87 thousand kilometres in the Czech Republic. It is not little, of course only a small part is adapted technically using concrete tiles. In a number of cases, they are living inefficient watercourses that take water out of the landscape unnecessarily quickly, change our water regime, prevent infiltration. And without a doubt, the unwarranted, technically engineered watercourses have an impact on biodiversity. By approving this amendment, you will undoubtedly contribute at least in a partial way to adapting the landscape to climate change, to the disturbances that are already here today and which will certainly not pass us in the next period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u5	Thank you. The guarantee committee was the agricultural committee, and the economic committee discussed the matter. The rapporteur for the guarantee committee was Mr Karel Tureček, rapporteur for Mr Vojtěch Munzar. I'm asking my colleagues if they're interested in a performance. It's not like that. I am opening a debate in which Mrs Balcarová is the first to sign up. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank the Senate, specifically Senator Orl, for coming up with this amendment that will prevent streams and rivers from coming back straightened and their trough strengthened. This is a significant step towards adaptation measures in the fight against climate change, and I very much welcome it. The pirates will support this Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone in the hall, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. At this point, I will call my colleagues from the lobby and hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-003-007.u8	Good afternoon, honourable Members. There is a decision before us on a motion returned from the Senate and we will therefore proceed in accordance with § 97 para. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I note to you the well-known fact that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. I'll wait until the number of entries is settled. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the House press 556/9, as approved by the Senate under the House press 556/10." [[Water law]] I started voting number 18. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 18 of the presence 174 for 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. I state that the House has approved the bill as amended by the Senate. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr. Senator, and I finish item number 7 according to the original numbering of our meeting. We will proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting with another bill proposal, it is about
