ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u1	221. Czech National Bank report on inflation - July 2019 (The Monetary Development Report for the first half of 2019) /German press 564/ The report is submitted by the Governor of the Czech National Bank, who is entitled in this case to attend a meeting of the House and does not have to ask for a word, this will be granted automatically to him pursuant to § 3 para. 2 Act on the Czech National Bank. So let me give the Czech National Bank Governor's floor to Jiří Rusnok. You have your word, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, this report, as has already been said, is a report published last summer. Of course, in the meantime, two more reports came out and, in particular, new data came from the economy. Now in the last few days, even the development is very rapid, so it's obvious that it won't be quite up to date. But I'm going to try to react in some way to the current situation or the time-to-day situation. The growth of the Czech economy slowed to 2.4 percent last year, and in the absence of any crisis scenarios with the current spread of the Coronavirus epidemic, there was until recently a very decent probability that, especially in the second half of this year, the key part of foreign demand would gradually revive for us, namely the eurozone, and then, or, consequently, the Czech economy should start to accelerate slightly. This seems extremely unlikely at the moment, so, of course, we will have to deal with various substitute, rather negative scenarios, but I would not want to cause any undue panic for the moment. [[16.10 hours]] About what happened in the meantime. So of course a favorable conjunctural situation until the beginning of this year associated in our conditions with de facto full employment, virtually. rather the acute labour shortage in the various layers of our labour market, the significant growth in domestic consumption, determined, of course, by the historically high employment rate, the historically highest de facto employment rate, in contrast to the corresponding historically lowest unemployment rate and the longer-lasting very robust growth in income, especially in wages, but recently also social transfers, pensions, other social benefits such as parental contribution, has obviously led to a certain upheaval of inflation pressures, moderate but visible, to which, of course, changes in certain taxes, tax rates, in particular excise taxes and partly VAT, have then joined at the beginning of this year - so, of course, this has created a situation together with a significant movement of European prices in areas such as for example. food and energy, which had already grown in the past year and continued to some extent at the beginning of the year, led to consumer inflation being 3.6 percent year on year in January and so on in February. This is, of course, above our tolerance band, but I would like to point out that the 2% inflation target is not something we should imagine that it can be achieved in every month, in every quarter to a tenth precisely. It's some kind of goal, it's some kind of limit that we have to and we're trying to approach by setting our monetary policy. And, of course, it is also what primarily decides on the setting of our monetary policy. Therefore, the Czech National Bank has also decided in the past, i.e. especially in 2018, to raise interest rates repeatedly and, lastly, to the end of our last monetary negotiations, which we had in January this year. So I would like to stress that our monetary policy is based on inflation targeting and on a flexible approach to this targeting so that we can, of course, achieve a very lively organism such as the national economy, the level of inflation that is close to our goal, because this is one of the necessary conditions for sustainable positive economic growth, and thus also for sustainable material welfare in this country. Let me make one more very brief comment on the current developments. Of course, at this point, we don't know exactly or inaccuracies, we can't estimate all the potential economic and, in particular, the macroeconomic consequences of this situation. However, I would like to say that I believe that the Czech Republic is definitely in relative comparison with the rest of Europe, or other parts of the world, in a very relatively comfortable situation in terms of the ability and ability to cope with such sudden economic shock. Let us remember that we have a very solid situation in terms of total debt. Our public debt is somewhere around 30% of GDP. This means that, unlike other similar economies, we are tens of percent lower and so-called. fiscal space is undoubtedly significant here. That's the first point. Second point. We have a separate monetary policy with a floating exchange rate, which in itself is a certain shock absorber. And if the situation so requires, it is also behind this very large foreign exchange reserves, which the Czech National Bank has now, thanks to past policy, rather as a by-product of this policy. We probably have the highest foreign exchange reserves in the world relative to GDP and even in absolute terms one of the highest. So some concern about some total failure of our own currency is absolutely not appropriate. To that end, thanks to the CNB's policy, we do not have zero or negative interest rates at this time. So once again, we have room in the standard instrument for possible, if the situation so requires, a reduction in interest rates and a relaxation of monetary policy conditions. And last but not least, we also mentioned that here today, we have a very robust, stable and well-equipped banking sector. So fear that there would be some economic tremor, which of course means losses for all, then also for those who are the financiers of the activity, i.e. Even banks, should somehow threaten the stability of Czech banks, again is not appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u3	I thank Mr. Governor of the Czech National Bank to Jiří Rusnok. Before we continue, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies: from 16 to 18 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá apologizes. I note that according to Act No.6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, the Czech National Bank is obliged to report on monetary developments to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 564/1. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Karel Rais, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Here is the motion for a resolution, both in the general and in the detailed debate, and I also recall the text of the Czech National Bank Act. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u4	Thank you. So we discussed in detail this report on 4 September 2019. This is the Czech National Bank's report on inflation for the first half of 2019. You heard the details here. We also discussed this on the committee at the time, and I was advised in the resolution to take note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation and, secondly, to adopt the following resolution as Parliament's Chamber of Deputies: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation - July 2019 " Thank you. [[Report on monetary developments for the first half of 2019.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his speech and we will continue. I am opening a general debate. The first registered is Mikuláš Ferjenčík and I register other applications from the place. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Mr Governor, I wanted to ask you first of all, given that you mentioned here that this report is quite old compared to the more recent ones, so I would rather ask you about the current developments, especially inflation, that is, first of all, if you believe that by the end of the year we will get back into the tolerance band of those 3%, and secondly, if you are doing any steps or how you are trying to avoid the so-called stagflation, that is, the situation where the economy is simultaneously slowing down and at the same time we have high inflation, which is probably the least desirable scenario, when the measure, when you have raised interest rates, threatens to slow growth a little in an attempt to reduce inflation, and at the same time, when it is not enough, so we will have a problem. So I wanted to ask you how you think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u7	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček has now entered the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u8	Thank you very much. Actually, I'd like to follow up on my predecessor. I wanted to ask the Governor, and I do not envy the situation today at the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, and I was also one of the few who did not completely criticise your last decision to raise interest rates at the end of last month, because simply the inflation data, which suggests that inflation has long been moving over the tolerance band, in my opinion, forced the Czech National Bank to do something, and I think that rather the measure had a psychological nature, because what the Czech National Bank is going to do today will be reflected in the economy, in inflation with a delay of year, year and half, or the Czech National Bank can no longer fight the high inflation that we are watching today, we should ask the Czech National Bank why it did not increase interest rates faster than that year to year and half, when it would certainly seem more appropriate from that point of view that we were not yet fully proven as at the descending stage of the economic cycle. So the Czech National Bank has decided to increase interest rates, which I understand, because it is simply the aim and task of the Czech National Bank to defend inflation, but let's face it, it has decided at just not exactly the optimal time when the Czech economy is moving down, and as my colleague said, we are moving, or there is a very special dangerous situation of stagflation, that we have a relatively high rate of inflation and a slowing economy. In this context, I would like to ask the Governor if it is not time to open up some technical political academic discussion about whether the monetary policy regime for inflation targeting has simply not been exhausted, if we can also consider it useful in the coming times, when it turns out that, for example, in the Czech economy, we would need a little more emphasis from the central bank today than inflation, but take more seriously the part of the economic cycle in which we are slowing down, or react to the slowing economy that has slowed down, and I would like to remind you that, even before we had any report on the coronavirus, and probably the coronavirus - or I am convinced that from the point of view of how it will affect the economy, it will certainly have negative economic effects on both the global economy and the economy of the Czech Republic, through several channels. There is no doubt that export markets that are very important to us will decline. Italy is probably the seventh most important exporter for us, or the export market where our producers export, which is certainly not enough. You can expect outages in deliveries of either final goods or products for further processing from the regions of China and replacing them with more expensive products from other regions. A decline in tourism and all sectors that are linked to tourism can be expected. So the impact on the economy will be even greater, and the slowdown will be even stronger than we could have expected a few weeks ago, and I want to ask the Governor in this context if it really isn't time to consider whether the inflation target, which the Czech National Bank has in the Constitution today and also in the law as the most important thing to watch, what to do about it and whether it is serious that the Czech economy is declining and probably going to fall even more after the effects of the coronavirus, I don't want to haunt by some major crisis or deep recession. After all, international organisations of the OECD type recommend that central banks and governments do something about the Coronavirus economy. The first central bank to take action is the US FED, which, unlike the Czech National Bank, has a greater emphasis on economic growth than on promoting employment and job creation and not allowing any high unemployment rate. So yes, the Fed has another objective, it has another framework in what it operates and what it is supposed to monitor, but nevertheless I believe, Mr Governor, that the effects of coronavirus certainly pose questions to the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, to what extent it is really only now to monitor a high level of inflation, albeit moving over the tolerance band, and to what extent this goal is to sacrifice at least for the time in the context of trying to help the Czech economy to cope with the effects of coronavirus in some way. And while I understand that monetary policy has a limited space or a limited influence on how to help economic growth, I think that monetary policy is simply not meant to serve for long-term growth, that it should not be the one who adds anabolics to the economy to grow, but in these extraordinary situations, where a decline can actually be expected, perhaps the Czech National Bank could help. I have also recorded a report today or a statement from your colleague Michal, who says that he will also propose a reduction of the Czech National Bank's basic interest rate for at least a symbolic... or about the increase that you made at the last council, so I just want to ask you if the Czech National Bank's time really isn't a little bit behind inflation and focus on economic growth, and whether the monetary policy regime for targeting inflation is really exhausted in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u9	I thank Mr Jan Skopečka. I'll ask who else is reporting for the debate. If no one checks in, is there an interest in final words? Mr. Governor? The rapporteur has already said the final word, and I will then explain the difference in the resolutions in this law. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable House, I will try to be brief, even if it is for a long debate. With regard to Mr Ferjenčík's questions, yes, we are above the tolerance band today, but it is the result of developments in the past quarters, when a number of things have been gathered that I have already mentioned, particularly the very pressurised domestic labour market, related to it very strong and, for several years in a row, continued wage growth, on this linked increase in income even to those social transfers or those who are beneficiaries of those social transfers, starting with pensioners and others. This is accompanied by price changes, which we have very limited influence on, or almost none, of the nature of the matter. Monetary policy is not capable of effectively acting on energy prices. They simply depend on a multinational market. When we add, of course, changes in tax rates, they are things that we are, and it has always been that monetary policy essentially looks away from them to a large extent. Now we're experiencing this when we're collecting in those prices the energy price growth that we've seen over the past period, let's say, a year ago, and at those retail prices, it's manifesting itself over the course of last year and the beginning of this year. [[16.30 hours]] We have, of course, experienced some rather inflationary food environments as well. It had to do with the dry period in Europe, but of course there will be other reasons. Again, it is an area where the standard monetary policy has very little ability to influence it. So my guess, and our prognosis says, of course, it's kind of updated today, but I wouldn't see a big change in this area that at the end of the year, we'll probably be somewhere at the level of our goal, and we'll definitely be in the tolerance zone. I even think we can look forward to the fact that prices are going to fall much faster than we expected, precisely because of the current situation, that is, if there really is some significant economic slowdown, or even stagnation, so of course this is usually associated with a fall in prices, because it will be a drop in demand factors. Take again the thing that we do not affect at all, but into the headline inflation that we are talking about, for example, fuel prices are entering. If we have oil prices falling by 30 percent or more today, it is obvious that in a few weeks to months this must also be reflected in our prices on the gas pump stands. When it comes to stagflation, of course, some of the similar tendencies here were potentially threatening, I would say, until recently, because the slowdown here was already from the last quarter of last year and was supposed to, according to the original forecasts, to continue to delay at least until the first half of this year, and at the same time we knew that inflation would still be high, theoretically could rise slightly, but rather slightly. So that's where we could talk about some stagflation. Now it seems to me that the probability of this scenario has decreased considerably, that at least in the inflation component, that inflation will just go down, that there is a high probability. There may be short-term specific cases where the offer collapses due to logistical, de facto coronanavir, people are not at work, traffic does not work and some products do not get to places they would otherwise get to, and there will be some sort of speculative part of somewhere price increase. But I think it'll be marginal, that it'll work out quickly. Like yesterday, I was in a teleconference with colleagues from other world central banks. There a colleague from China talked about the international transport of goods, the shipping, coming back, today is 70, 80 percent normal. And basically, Czech businesses are telling us that they do not yet see any significant disruption of supplies from China. So, of course, this can happen in individual cases. And this may happen even more possibly later in the case of some specific suppliers in some countries in Europe. I'd see it there maybe even more risk. As for Mr Skopeček, why did we not increase the rates earlier? It's always a little complicated. Even here, the increase was very close. And we're really talking about some very fine debugging here, whether the rate is higher by 0.25 or lower - in fact, it doesn't mean anything fundamental to the economy. Some of the influences I was talking about just came together, which temporarily increased our price level more significantly above our target. But it is not an explosion of some uncontrolled inflation that we should be worried about. On the contrary, I think, as I said before, inflation will quickly be back in the tolerance zone, which I'm not worried about. I am more concerned that we should not have a problem with the greater economic growth. I'd split your question. One thing is certainly legitimate. They're both legitimate. But the one thing is the debate on setting up, on the monetary policy regime, whether the targeting of what an alternative is supposed to look like, or what targets other than inflation are supposed to look like. That's a legitimate debate. That's a good one, and we're open and ready for it. So far, the debate has virtually not come to any politically applicable conclusion that some central bank, for example, would change the type of target, not even changing the level of the target. Everyone stays with what has been introduced because, I would say, nothing better has been found yet, or the alternatives have a number of problems. Of course, I can also imagine a change in this, and some political reformation, even if this needs to be very well considered, not to be taken into consideration by any current situation. But I can imagine having a multi-critical target. Why not? You yourself mentioned the United States. There are other countries. New Zealand. Some others, especially from the Anglo-Saxon region, have equivalent employment or economic growth targets or even prosperity. Australia has a defined goal like this. So I'm sure it's legitimate. And as for our reaction, we have the advantage of actually using a very flexible approach to targeting it. For one thing, we have a tolerance zone and, on the other hand, there is no taboo for us to move simply, if the situation justifies this by, for example, the economy needs greater relaxation, so we do not have any doctrinal taboo in the fact that for some time inflation needs to be slightly higher than our target, but we will help the economy more. I'm sure we don't have a problem with that. But on the contrary, sometimes inflation can be lower and it can simply sound better for the general benefit of the economy in the whole sum. So we're always assessing the situation somehow, I'd say holistically, when I'm going to use this term, and we're trying to see it in context. However, our primary objective, the statutory mandate, is inflation, because it is also, in the end, what we have relatively most in our hands and what also creates the assumption of sustainable economic prosperity. Now I don't want to speculate about this particular situation. Really, at this point, everything is premature. We are doing this very hecticly now - every day we are trying to get new data, knowledge, perhaps even a certain anecdotic nature from the real economy, from abroad, so that, as far as possible, we can act well on the situation in the next steps of monetary policy and respond so that we do not act rashly, but also, of course, belatedly. So it's going to be our main target now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-004-221.u11	Thank you to the Governor of the Czech National Bank. If the rapporteur does not declare his final statement, we can vote on the motion for a resolution after a general debate, and that is the proposal from the Committee on Budgets that we take note of the report. I'm gonna go on and decide that in a vote of sixty-nine. I'll check you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled, I will launch the vote, bearing in mind the Czech National Bank's report on inflation of July 2019, on monetary developments for the first half of 2019, the House Press 564, we note. I've started voting number 69 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 69 of the 125 present for 120, against no one. We've taken note of the report. [[16.40 hours]] We will proceed to a debate in detail, which I have no application for, but I ask if anyone is applying from the point of view. If no one is reporting, I note that a detailed debate is held when the Chamber of Deputies requests the completion of a report by the Czech National Bank, which is then required to submit a supplemented report in accordance with Section 3 (2) within six weeks. 3 of the Law. Since no one has spoken in detail in the debate, nor has anyone suggested it, I am also ending the debate in detail. I thank Mr. Governor of the Czech National Bank to Jiří Rusnok. Mr Governor, thank you for your visit to the Chamber of Deputies, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish with item 221. Now, according to the agenda of the meeting, we have exhausted the points relating to the reports, and we will return to the first reading of the laws as we have them here. The first is point number
