ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws / House print 214/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and we received its resolution as House press 214/9. Information on the amendments has been sent to your mail. I welcome Senator Jan Žaloudík among us, who will sit here first. Mr. Senator, please, to the rapporteur's desk. And before I give the floor to the Senator, I ask that President Markéta Pekarová Adamová comment on the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly, because we would probably like to make this point even today, to comment on this proposal. I was personally present at a long-term debate that was just about the Code of Criminal Procedure in the Senate. In the end, most senators agreed that, in order for the amendment to actually function in view of the seriousness of the crime in question, the following changes should be adopted, namely an increase in the penalty for the abuse of animals from five to six years, if it is committed in a particularly brutal and agonizing manner on a larger number of animals, causing permanent consequences or death or if it is committed again. And also the introduction of a new crime of breeding animals under inappropriate conditions, so-called multiplication plants. This will finally criminalise these practices, which are totally unacceptable, and will give better means to the law enforcement authorities to detect them. I note that this offence will in no way affect negligence or omission of honest breeders or farmers, as it is a deliberate offence affecting the lives of animals. When this proposal is adopted, it will also be possible to impose a ban on the holding and breeding of animals to already convicted offenders. I am convinced - I dare say that I speak for the other plaintiffs, it was then 77 - that the amendment to the Senate would mean a significant change for practice. Without these changes, it will no longer be possible to unconditionally punish the most serious crime on animals and not to expose, prosecute and also punish the infamous phenomenon that is unfortunately rampant here, and these are so-called. multiplication plants. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to support the proposal in the wording of the amendments adopted by the Senate, and I believe that today we will decide that this material, which we have discussed for a long time in the committees and here in the House, will be put into practice by a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. The conclusion of President Pekarová's speech to Adamová was barely heard. I didn't want to interrupt her in the last sentence. Once again, please, the House of Silence! Thank you. And now I ask Senator Jan Žaloudík to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am in an exceptional situation today to exchange compliments. As the honourable Member has already indicated before me that our amendment is meaningful, I can also say that we have carried out the amendment and the rebuttal of the law precisely to help you and support your long efforts to remedy things that are happening around not only individual animal abuse, but especially those shameful reproductions. [[18.30 hours]] Some have wondered why we are discussing this matter in the Senate, this material, not only in the constitutional and legal committee that has not adopted the resolution, and why we are also discussing it in the Committee on Health and Social Policy. We do so with complete conviction because it is the mental health not only of the individual but of the mental health of society, and that the deviants need to be combated in a fundamental way. And those who say we don't understand criminal law, that we're somehow changing proportions, yes, that's right. We don't understand. Not everything we're saying is what we understand, because the three-hour debate wasn't a debate among the virologists either. Nor will it be in the Senate. But we think that this is such a clear matter from a social point of view that I was grateful for the 77 Members who had already put this on the table in June 2018, the proposal. And for a year and a half, things were very responsible, so you finally came to an agreement both in the Committee on Agriculture and in the Committee on Constitutional Law. Although the vote did not succeed in the fact that 87 Members voted in favour, 17 opposed, i.e. for the new version, and 80 abstained. So we thought it was an opportunity to help the other part of Parliament, namely the House, and the same amendment - and it is the same text as it came from you, de facto. In our country, it was on the initiative of Senator Hraba and 21 other senators. So it is good to give this one more time to consider here in the honourable Chamber of Deputies so that things do differently than they have so far. So far, it has been done that, as the first crime, no one has actually been convicted unconditionally. And so far, no one has been able to condemn anyone for the multiplication plants that embarrass us especially in the surrounding countries to the west. That is why the change must finally be accepted. And I also see the process that runs in society, when those who doubted a little bit are already inclined to this new solution. I thank you for supporting yours - our proposal and for achieving the change we want, because otherwise your efforts and our efforts, which lasted a year and a half, would be completely pointless and pointless. Thank you for understanding, for considering. And otherwise the details are given in the information. I'm not gonna drag out my performance anymore, it's still long enough because I'm aware of your time tension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u5	Thank you, Senator. Before I open the debate, is Mrs Válková or Mrs Balaštíková, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, interested in speaking? Mrs Válková is interested - the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u6	Thank you. I am, too, when Mr. Senator, through you, will listen to me for a moment... [[Senator Žaloudík is speaking to one of the Members.]] Well, interesting. [[With laughter.]] So I also commended you that this time, and I will not say exceptionally, but the Senate has unstandardizedly helped us get back to what we voted on December 18th, so I appreciate that in this regard. Of course, it should sound objectively here that we've come to all those who mind the abuse so much that they actually compare it in some cases with the abuse of people. That's what we have to say here. But the Czech public is animal lovers, and that is why MEPs are meant to meet the possibilities that are here. I just wanted to point out one thing. Mrs Pekarová Adamová, by your means, therefore, has repeatedly fought for this law. And then, at some point, we started working very actively on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. And I think it was also quite good evidence that in certain areas this policy can forget about hostility, and I think the result isn't like that again if we agree today - and I'm saying, like, I think, a criminal justice specialist, that we'd have to be ashamed of him, which might be the case of the first proposal. So I'm glad that compromise, if we approve it, is in the form in which you gave it back to us from the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u7	Thank you. And now I'm opening up a debate. The Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura is in favour of the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say that I am glad that, I hope, today we will vote in favour of tightening up the punishment for animal abuse, and it also concerns multiplication. We for the SPD are co-chairmen of this proposal. And I hope that after the long martyria that was going on here, finally, all those who abuse animals will be more punished, more severely punished. I think it's a great result, if that's the case, and today we're going to vote for the tightening up. It's the result of the cooperation of all of us here who care about animal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u9	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies since 18.30 for work reasons. And before I hand over the proceedings to the meeting, I will give the floor to Mrs Jarošová in the general debate, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u10	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment here on the amendment to the Criminal Code, which tightens the penalties for animal cruelty. It was not so long ago, specifically in December last year, that a large-scale animal protection law was discussed here in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, in which the members of the SPD participated and which ultimately did not go as we would like and as our public would like. At that time, the law did not go by 6 votes, when 18 Members refused to tighten up their sentences and dozens more abstained. These Members may not have wished that heartless monsters could be punished more severely for animal cruelty. But at least we agreed that the court will be able to punish the culprit with a ban on possession and breeding of animals for up to ten years if someone commits animal abuse or neglect of care. Still, it's not enough. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] There's been a lot of talk about animal abuse lately, and the public's been calling for more severe punishments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u11	Then I will interrupt you, Madame, and I ask for the peace of the Chamber of Deputies, because the Member cannot comment. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u12	Thank you. The law is a response to increasing cases of animal abuse. That is what we have the opportunity to decide today, when this amendment is coming back for further discussion. Once again, as in December, the SPD will clearly support an increase in animal cruelty. Likewise, everyone who has not voted or abstained for this law has the opportunity to correct it. The statistics of the Ministry of Justice confirm that an increase in rates is necessary, according to which in the last three years, not a single primary victim of animal abuse has been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. Unfortunately, courts often impose conditional sentences or generally beneficial work even for really brutal cases of abuse, and we have the opportunity to change that. Another positive feature this amendment brings is the fight against multiplication plants. Today's system of sanctions will not discourage the owners of the multiplication plants and, in particular, there must be a deterrent punishment. We must not forget that these are absolutely defenseless animals that need our help. The reason why illegal multiplication activities need to be so severe in our country is that nowhere in the world is an illegal breeding business with animals as extensive as it is in our country. Another positive feature of this amendment will be in the case of organised crimes, it is organized multiplication plants with millions of profits, easier to order house searches. These are all the reasons why we should support this amendment. Our SPD movement will clearly support an increase in the punishment for animal abuse. And I very much wish that the Members who voted against or abstained in December should reconsider their votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u13	Well, thank you. And now, Mr Petr Bendl will appear and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, my fellow Members, allow me to say a few words about this bill, which unfortunately missed me when we voted on it, or when the Chamber of Deputies voted on it in the third reading, because I could not be present for serious family reasons, and therefore I could not vote on it. [[18.40 hours]] I am one of those who will support the Senate's motion to increase the sentence. Nevertheless, I regret that, in the end, we do not have a proposal from Senators Vystrčil and others who have also come with tightening of sentences, but perhaps in a more balanced form, so that even renowned lawyers who are moving in criminal law have no doubt about this legislative proposal. So I say - I will support, but there is, for example, a lack of duty for anyone who brutally tortures an animal, for example, to be brought to a psychiatrist and possibly to be given a constitutional treatment. It is a pity that this did not appear in the proposal, because I think that such people are not normal and should be judged in this way. What does the proposal bring? I think it is rather a demonstration of hopelessness, because the government, which has enough legislative instruments to deal with it, does not do much. After all, if a person keeps animals in large quantities - perhaps an exaggerated term - in breeding plants, he usually does business illegally and usually does not pay any taxes. And here I think the government has the tools to enforce these things and to act. Unfortunately, the public is not witnessing anything like this happening, and it's a shame. I think that even the financial authorities and maybe the Treasury should realize that this could have been the way we could have dealt with the multiplication plants. No wonder the public is pointing out cases that are happening. We are failing to prevent cases of animal abuse, for example, in the fact that we do not yet have a single register of dogs. By the fact that the registers exist in the form in which they exist, even though we ordered people to chip their dogs, so by the absence of a single register, it's basically a toothless matter, we just pulled money out of people's pockets, I mean the Chamber of Deputies. We don't have a well-designed system to deal with those abused animals. Now I am thinking especially of large livestock And I point out for a very long time that how the system works today is very skeletal and does not allow for rapid intervention in the event of abuse of large livestock. I hope that in another amendment to the Animal Abuse Act, which we have at the moment at second reading, we will consider this. So for myself, I say I'm in favour of increasing the punishments. I hope that these paragraphs will not be used in any other way, that they will aim for the propagation plants, so that livestock farmers can comply with how... I think that farmers in the Czech Republic, with some exceptions, are particularly good at treating animals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u15	I will now request the floor of Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I must say that this bill is a typical example of how legislation is really not to be done. I'm no fan of animal abuse. I've always thought that people should be punished for it and that it's okay for being punished for animal abuse. He's God's creature, and a man is meant to be polite to him. But what has been unleashed here in the last six months has nothing to do with lawmaking in my opinion, and it is simply the pressure of a particular interest group that has decided to enforce its own. From the beginning, what lies in the House, we say: we are prepared to raise the upper limit of the rate for the offence of animal abuse resulting from death from five to six years, so that it is possible and clear to impose unconditional prison sentences. This proposal was also made in the Senate. But I'm afraid that's not what anybody's after. It's hidden here under all those touching e-mails and touching feet of Blesk and other things, how to care for the protection of animals and prevent their abuse and punish their perpetrators. But all it is about is introducing a new § 302 animal breeding into criminal law under inappropriate conditions. It's nice if we rename it here and say it's a breeding plant. But I consider it my duty in this House to say that I simply cannot vote in this form. And when we get it back in three, five or seven years, please don't be surprised. It's not defined here at all that it's supposed to be some kind of breeding plant, that it's some kind of breeding at home. On the contrary, any breeding of an animal under inappropriate conditions, of course intentional, is what the petitioner here says that it can't be unintentional, so I assume that this is a deliberate crime, but any breeding of animals under inappropriate conditions that cause them hardship or endanger their lives will be punished. And now, in the first paragraph, we are - one year or no action, and in the fourth paragraph, when it comes to the intention to obtain for ourselves or for another great benefit, we are five to ten years old. This is more severe than any other environmental punishment we have. If I burn down the forest with everything, I'll get less punishment than if I keep animals under inappropriate conditions. I'm just pointing it out to the Sněmovna. I know that the majority here are determined to vote in favour that they believe that we are here defending our poor domestic dogs and pussycats from those animals that treat them the way they sometimes treat them, and that we need it. But I say to those who enforce it, and unfortunately, the Senate has also fallen for it in this case, it is nothing more than to introduce this special deed, to raise animals in inappropriate conditions, with all the consequences that it may have for Czech society and, in my opinion, it will have. I'm just pointing out that the Senate had a rather extensive analysis of the Supreme Court judges headed by Professor Šámal, who was recently elected a constitutional judge saying to them, "Don't do this. This is not the way legislation is done, you are fluctuating, we are losing the limits of meaningfulness in criminal law not only to human life, human health and other things, but also to acts in the field of environment and animal protection and others. I'm not gonna talk you into it, but I consider it necessary to say it here for my personal integrity. If it was a vote about voting from five to six years, then whenever I vote for it. And we can do it in the criminal law that we have open next week. But I'm afraid that's not the point. The point is to enforce the punishment of animal breeding under inappropriate conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u17	I now have here a proposal from two Members' clubs, the TOP 09 and the SPD, that we should only vote on this law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with paragraph 1, in case it does not happen within 19 hours, because I still have the factual remarks registered here, so that we vote on this law only after 19 o'clock, and that vote on this law, whether positive or negative, the negotiations will end. So I'll call you to the vote. I'm gonna sing. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. There is a proposal from two MPs, the TOP 09 and the SPD, to vote only on this press, so that we can complete it in order to pronounce it, the back of the Senate, even after 19 o'clock, and then the meeting would be over. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 21 registered 164 Members, for 138, against none. The motion was accepted. We will discuss this press after 19 o'clock. [[18.50 hours]] I have two factual points here. I am the first to call on Mr Roman Onderka to speak and Mr Pavel Plzák will be prepared. Also de facto. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes. And please remain calm in the courtroom!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, through you, I would like to say to my colleague Benda that he may be right from a legal point of view, which he defined as a lawyer, as a person from a practice point of view, but I would like to draw his attention to one thing. Forests are not fired on a large scale in the Czech Republic yet, while dog business, cats and other domestic animals are simply the third largest after sex and after drugs. From this point of view, I think this law is appropriate, and the Senate's door is completely fine. And I hope that the Senate and today the Chamber of Deputies will pull the emergency brake and this business, this ugly business, will finally stop, even though I understand it from the point of view of the legal perspective, as he took it. Thank you to all who will vote in favour of this law today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u19	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Plzák, Mrs Helena Válková will be prepared for the factual point. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. A colleague of Marek Benda. He played me just a little bit. I asked exactly who defined the inappropriate environment at our club. And I didn't even get any answers from the professor, which I could clearly understand. And I would like to draw attention to the negative position of the Justice Department. And I trust our Justice Department, and I will act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u21	Thank you. And so far the final facts, Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u22	Thank you. Now the MP has also recorded to me, Mr Plzák, through you, Mr Vice-President. Quickly. Please, we need to read the text that keeps more animals in inappropriate conditions, and that - which is a cumulative condition - threatens their lives or causes them considerable hardships that it is not isolated. This must be such inappropriate conditions and in such an intensity that it can be concluded that it deliberately endangers their lives or causes them considerable hardships. That's point one. Point two. As for the particularly serious crime, virtually. Incarceration for five to ten years, so, of course, we're talking about property damage and we're talking about other people's damage. My previous speaker was talking about it. Criminological research shows, and it is European and American, that the perpetrators of the most brutal crimes are very often, significantly more often, committed in youth, adolescence under the age of 30, animal abuse. That's a premonition of the worst coming. So even from this point of view, I don't think it's possible to throw a crime against the environment and animal abuse into a single bag as far as a qualified deed is concerned, as laid down in paragraph 3, or so far as it is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u23	Thank you. I do not now have a factual point, so Mr Jan Chvojka will speak in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. Nice evening, colleagues, Mr Vice-President. I would like to say for the ČSSD club that today we will support tightening the penalties for animal cruelty as proposed by the Senate. After all, all this time, when this law was being discussed here, on the House floor, we held the line, as they say, and we supported it, as I did at first reading as a translator of this law, and for example Kateřina Valachová, as a member of the ÚPV, fought very hard for it. We believe the House has a chance at a reparatist today, and we want to support this chance with all the votes of our club. Finally, we want to stop the suffering of animals in illegal breeding plants, and we also want to make it clear that animal cruelty will be punished and that it will be punished uncompromisingly. It is necessary to say, and every day we see it in the media, whether printed or on television, that unfortunately the abuse of animals is increasing. It is a problem that I think is a serious problem, and we should not put our heads in the sand as Members, as elected representatives of the people. Some judges and some officials warn us that we shouldn't be making a revolution in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I believe that, and on the contrary, I think we should have done this revolution much, much earlier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-004-003.u25	I'll see if anyone else is logged in. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Senator? You're interested, you're not. Deputy plaintiff Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová, are you interested in the final word? You don't. So we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No.40/2009 Coll., the Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws, according to House Press 214/8, as approved by the Senate, according to House Press 214/9'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 22 registered 159 Members, for 133, against 4. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. [[Let's hear it.]] That concludes the discussion of this press. Anyway, we've got three minutes to go, so if you're okay with that, I'd probably cancel the meeting, because I have these suggestions and suggestions here. I don't see anyone protesting, so I'm interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00. Have a good evening.
