ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u1	176. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 652/ - first reading We have received the Government's position on this press as House Press 652/1. And I am now asking Mrs Lucia Šafránková to take the floor for the plaintiff and present the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u2	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SPD MP, I would like to introduce to you the bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, as amended. It is a set of seven changes, which should eliminate or at least minimise the various forms of abuse of benefits of aid in material distress, to strengthen the control possibilities and competences of workers of the Labour Office, which is the body that covers this agenda and which is legally responsible for it, as well as to enable the granting of genuinely sensitive sanctions to those who abuse the system of assistance in material distress, and to in the long term rob their honest working fellow citizens who are involuntaryly funding them. This proposal was developed in close interaction with field and practice experts. Of course, these were the employees of the Labour and Social Union Office and the school and educator directors, including from cities and municipalities heavily affected by the problems of abuse of social benefits, respectively. with its closely related theme of shame of the Czech state, so-called excluded localities, ghettos, where there is a business with poverty, crime and sociopathological phenomena and which are a time bomb in our system. There are generations of children growing up with no chance of a decent future, and living in their neighborhood is a danger and a nightmare for decent working citizens. It is the duty of the state to intervene here uncompromisingly. The government has been idle in this for a long time, which is why we are coming up with this proposal, which is certainly not all-savable, but is the first necessary step in making the system on its head slowly start to turn back on its feet. In this context, let me express my admiration and respect for all the employees of the Labour Office and the social unions of cities and municipalities, as well as the Czech Social Security Administration, who do hard and well-served work, defend the interests and money of the state, so to speak, in the first line. They are under tremendous pressure, often faced with pressure and threats from unsuccessful or aggressive social welfare seekers, all supported by various non-profit organizations linked to the supply business. It is our duty to appreciate and support these workers, of course financially in the first place, because they are, incomprehensiblely, forgotten in favour of other groups, but also morally and legally. We must tell them and prove in practice that we appreciate their work and that we will always stand behind them, whether they are afraid to make decisions according to the law and their conscience. The common denominator of the proposed changes is therefore the effort to achieve, through tightening the conditions of control and penalty mechanisms, the reduction of the misuse of funds for non-insurable social benefits in the field of state aid in material distress. This assistance must only become an exceptional means for situations where, for objective reasons, its beneficiary cannot obtain income from his own work or business or when low labour income is not sufficient to cover the basic needs of life for him, his family and his children. The current legislative setting in the field of benefits of aid in material distress allows, in many respects, non-transparable and purposeful actions by their beneficiaries and applicants for them. It is therefore necessary to make changes in the law that would enable workers of the institutions to assist in material distress to carry out more effective checks, including the possibility of the use of appropriate sanctions in the area of abuse of non-insurable social benefits of assistance in material distress, while at the same time leading to significant savings in public funds. These are the other main objectives of the amendment presented by us: increasing the address of the corresponding benefits, reducing the total amount of State resources paid for the benefits of assistance in material distress, in particular the unjustified ones, and reducing the number of beneficiaries of these benefits and limiting them only to persons who have temporarily found themselves without self-inflicted in material distress and who are actively seeking to get out of this situation by themselves. Abuse of the benefits of aid in material distress has many forms. The most important concern is the so-called housing supplement, which is a benefit that deserves its own comprehensive adjustment, which we have been waiting for for for years. Hopefully it will start to shine here for a better time. Significant adjustments are also needed for so-called emergency immediate assistance, but this is a specific material and is not the subject of this proposal. It is also about not admitting and concealing the financial income of the beneficiaries of benefits, working black and illegal income, fictitious changes in residence and fraud associated with it, fictitious rentals of real estate, for example among relatives, long-term avoidance and search, massive abuse of the employment incapacity regime. A separate chapter is then the abuse of foster benefits, especially the so-called remuneration of a foster child within a speculative foster family, where, for example, the parent is a foster child, although he has a derived maintenance duty to the child and even though the parents of the child live and could actually care for them. For the time being, I propose to make the following seven changes in the law on aid in material distress: First, we want to extend the range of persons who can be excluded from the group of recipients of benefits in material distress due to failure to fulfil the obligations of the legal representative of the child associated with the proper performance of compulsory schooling, as well as persons who do not fulfil these obligations in relation to compulsory pre-school education. The obligation to ensure the proper attendance and participation of the child in the last year of preschool education and to prepare for primary school is completely comparable to that of parents to ensure the proper performance of compulsory schooling. Compulsory school attendance and compulsory annual training for her are one of the basic tools of socialization of the child and its integration into society as well as preparation for future further study or performance of the profession. At the same time, it is not justified to pay social benefits to those who do not fulfil their legal obligations in relation to the State and their children. The extension of the relevant provision on the reference to compliance with the school law is necessary because this legal standard also regulates the obligations of legal representatives of children and minors, including, inter alia, the obligation to ensure that a child and a pupil arrive properly at a school or school establishment and to demonstrate the reasons for the absence of a child and a pupil in teaching in accordance with the conditions laid down in the school rules. Secondly, we propose that the authorities be given the opportunity to exclude those persons who have broken the unemployment and/or disability scheme during receiving benefits. the so-called temporary inability to fulfil the jobseeker's obligations on grounds of sickness or accident. The current legislation does not allow those persons who have repeatedly violated the rules of the non-work regime to be excluded from the circle of persons entitled to receive benefits of assistance in material distress. The recent statistics of the Labour Office, which states that during the first half of 2018, its staff focused on compliance with the so-called temporary inability to fulfil the jobseeker's obligations and any abuse of uninsurable social benefits in this context. At that time, the Labour Office registered 22,000 persons who did not have to fulfil the obligations of the job seeker due to sickness or injury on the basis of a medical certificate. Therefore, during the first half of 2018, the employees of the Labour Office carried out 15 791 checks and found 4 307 infringements of the established scheme, which is thus almost 30% of the cases, while the current regulation only allows removal from the register of job seekers, not from the range of recipients of benefits in material distress. By a third change, we propose that the authorities be given the opportunity to exclude persons who remain in work in a situation of disability from the range of recipients of benefits in material distress. under the so-called temporary inability to fulfil the duties of a jobseeker due to sickness or accident even after the end of the period equivalent to the maximum period of support for receiving sickness, including the period by which this period may be extended to the maximum by the competent department of the Czech Social Security Administration, which is a total of 730 calendar days consecutive. This means that these persons should either apply at the relevant workplace of the Czech Social Security Administration for the admission of reduced labour capacity and disability pension before the end of this period, or get into employment, respectively. start again actively seeking employment through the Labour Office as persons registered there, that is to do properly the job applicant's duties. On the basis of information from the workers of the Labour Office, I now know that many people remain in the disability regime for many years, very often for example more than three years, and the record record of their kind is the case of such a nine-year disability. [[17.50 hours]] The fourth change is proposed to simplify and accelerate the process of excluding a person from the circle so called. jointly assessed persons are persons whose conditions are examined together with the recipients of benefits of material distress and applicants for them if they do not fulfil the relevant conditions for the status of a jointly assessed person within the meaning of the Physical Need Assistance Act, provided that such facts are demonstrated by the relevant applicant for benefits in material distress without any doubt. This is mainly proof of the type that the person concerned, together with the applicant, does not use the aid in material distress together or the cases where he uses it but does not participate in the costs of common needs. That means it's a transfer of so-called. the burden of proof on the applicant for a benefit, which will help in particular the enormously overloaded workers of the Labour Offices in the most troubled regions, but at the same time does not mean any blank check for the applicant for benefits. If a subsequent check reveals that the said data do not correspond to the facts or if entry into the relevant property is refused to the controller of the Labour Office, the relevant levy shall be immediately withdrawn. We propose the fifth amendment to the law to implement the basis for exclusion from the so-called circuit. together assessed persons for those who do not grant any income, do not work, do not do business or actively seek work. This concerns, for example, those parents who declare themselves in material distress and applicants for benefits in material distress to their child, who is always a person in material distress from the point of view of the law, and thus want to increase the calculation of the established existential minimum, and thus the total income of the family from the benefits in material distress. They are therefore persons who are not in the Register of the Labour Office, either from their own decision or who have been excluded from it for non-compliance or breach of the relevant obligations. By the sixth amendment, we propose the introduction of an obligation to include among the revenues declared in the request for benefits of assistance in material distress as well as income from foster care benefits. In particular, it is so called. so far, in such cases as foster care within the family and close family relationships. The measure is also directed against the so-called speculative family foster, the purpose of which is to make so-called. family foster parents who apply for various assistance in material distress had to list among their income relevant for the grant of the benefit also the income from the benefit of foster care. This proposal in its logic is also based on the fact that, for example, so-called. the remuneration of the foster family is assessed as income from the dependent activity for the purposes of income tax, social security premiums, accident insurance premiums and general health insurance premiums. The last change is proposed to simplify and tighten the procedure for withdrawal or reduction of the dose of assistance in material distress, respectively. refusal of an application for such a benefit if the recipient of the benefit or the applicant for it does not give the authority, in a material emergency, consent to the entry into the dwelling, the failure to carry out a social investigation or an investigation at the place of the necessary verification of the facts relevant for the existence of a claim for or determination of the appropriate amount of assistance in material distress. The aim is a clear prevention of fraudulent and speculative behaviour in connection with the use of benefits of material emergency and the saving of public funds. Therefore, it is also proposed to extend the period during which the physical distress benefit can be withdrawn or reduced from the current three months to a much more pronounced period of one year. The effectiveness of this law is proposed on the first day of the first calendar month following the date of its publication. The submitted amendments are in accordance with constitutional law number 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and respect the general principles of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and do not conflict with the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. Paragraph 3 of Article 26 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is absolutely crucial here. Everyone has the right to raise funds for their living needs by work. Citizens who cannot exercise this right without their guilt shall be materially provided by the State to an appropriate extent. The terms are laid down by law. The proposed legislation is not contrary to the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. The compatibility of the proposal with European law bears witness to the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute. The proposed adjustments do not give rise to negative effects on the state budget or on other public budgets in terms of increasing expenditure, on the contrary, their implementation into the rule of law will reduce public expenditure in the field of benefits of aid in material distress. The scope of this reduction cannot be accurately and appropriately predicted as it is dependent on multiple transformations. However, estimates of the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs refer to at least 20 to 30 percent of the recipients of benefits in material distress who are taking advantage of the system in some way. The above mentioned results of the inspection investigation of the Labour Office in respect of compliance with the regime of incapacity for work of persons in its register would correspond quite to this in the knowledge of their framework and indicative nature for potential generalisation. The proposed adjustments may have an impact on a specific segment of pseudo-business in the area of rental of certain real estate, in particular residential hotels which primarily benefit from benefits of aid in material distress, particularly in sites with a higher degree of social exclusion. This means that these adjustments can lead to restrictions of so-called. trade in poverty by limiting demand for it. The proposed changes will have direct effects on the former recipients of benefits of assistance in material distress and for them applicants who, as a result, will no longer be entitled to such benefits, respectively. reduce the amount of these doses in their case. In this sense, these adjustments may have both a short-term negative effect on the persons concerned, which is the current reduction in the available income, as well as a possible and long-term positive impact, by which I mean increased activity in finding employment, entering it and ensuring income through their own efforts, work or business. One of the partial objectives of the proposal is also to avoid creating and helping virtually lasting dependence on them and the loss of work habits that lead to or may lead to the deepening of social exclusion of recipients of benefits in material distress and which prevent their social reintegration. The proposals put forward are not directed against citizens in a difficult social situation. We just want to shut down those who refuse to work, cheat, and live at the expense of their fellow citizens, who still often ridicule themselves without being covered up. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not oppose any discussion of this proposal or its parts. We look forward to a substantive, critical debate, because only that can move us forward. We are always ready to act in favour of the goal. Indeed, we can no longer wait for anything in the area of the current trivial setting of the welfare system with all the negative consequences. We just want to finally start positive changes in this area. In the interests of the benefit recipients themselves, in the interests of their children and of all victims of the negative phenomenon of excluded localities, in the interests of social workers and workers of the Labour Office, who, without responding to the alarming situation, have been alerting years, in the interests of decent, working citizens, who pay for this waste by their character at the edge of the ban. I beg you to be released for second reading and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur for first reading is Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, rapporteur, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be as extensive as the petitioner of this House press. Just allow me, before I say my own opinion when I sign up for the debate, to take up the position of rapporteur of the House Press 652, the amendment on aid in material distress. I would like to say that this House press responds, as has been said here, actually to the long-term unhappy situation in terms of abuse, but to such a large extent, a hundred percent, that is in no way, the social system. In any case, the structurally affected regions are very concerned and the issues that have been mentioned here are manifest. [[18.00 hours]] This House press does not respond to the situation itself, we have also discussed the House Press 290 in recent weeks, which is also an amendment to the material emergency from the workshop of ODS colleagues. I would just like to say that this parliamentary proposal has a neutral government position. I must say that it was surprising for me, in any case, the government is aware that, as it promised in September 2018 and defined 15 measures in the fight against poverty, that it wants to do something about this situation, so I believe that in another criticism that goes to this House press, it has given its neutral position precisely because it is aware of the problems that are still there. I would also like to point out that the government identifies itself in order to reduce the abuse of benefits of aid to material distress, but it points out that the way in which the proposal is made is non-systemic and raises doubts in terms of compliance with constitutional order and international treaties. The petitioner here said that this is not true, but as I have studied the whole proposal in detail, I must say that no matter what seven positions, seven major changes, the proposal itself is written very technically poorly. We cannot deny that the SPD MEPs want to fundamentally change the situation. The question is, how did they approach this, because there really are fundamental legislative technical errors. And if we were to keep talking about it, actually release it in some form for further negotiations, then there would have to be a comprehensive amendment to address this area. At the same time, I would like to say that, in fact, Minister Maláčová, who is already here, will be presenting a government amendment in March, which actually changes the whole system of allowances or, as a result, from the state social support of the contribution and the material need for the housing supplement per levy, and this proposed measure also includes in its government form. So I believe that if we were to release this MP to second reading, she would really have to make further comprehensive changes, regardless of the fact that she would have to respond to the government proposal coming from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. One apology. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. I'm opening the debate. First, in the debate, Vice-President Tomio Okamura, then Minister Maláčová, and then Members will be given the floor as they are signed up for the general debate. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here on the agenda of the SPD amendment, which will end the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptable citizens and will motivate them to live properly. For starters, let me give you the most important information. The proposal for amendments tabled by the SPD Members in this amendment was actually made on numerous requests and comments from affected cities and municipalities, and from workers from labour offices and social authorities who have long-term attention to abuse of the social system by people who refuse to work in the long term, even though they are capable of working, and who are parasites on the existing social system. The workers from the practice we consulted and, as I said, they are the executives of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, they are the head workers of the social unions of the city councils of the affected cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic, and these workers from practice have identified a number of legislative gaps that need to be resolved. This is not only in order to prevent the abuse of social aid, but also to ensure that the system, on the other hand, has more money for those who need social aid rightly. We consulted all these experts on this bill, they worked with us on it for several months, and we again consulted them on the final version of this law, with people who work 30 in leading positions in social unions, the city council or the employment offices. Of course, that government MPs, that is, they are MEPs from this point of view of ČSSD and KSČM, that they criticize and argue that the amendment is unsystemic or that it is not an optimal one, so it is just excuses because they do not want to change the situation. Because you are saying that the experts from practice, which is neither the Minister nor the KSČM Member, are not, so that in fact these practitioners - the Minister laughs, is laughing at the fact that I say that he is not an expert compared to those who work for decades at the Office of Labour and dozens of years working in the Social Department, so you laugh about it, I insist that you are not the expert, maybe you are playing him, but you are not, but we will hear that, because you will perform after me, so you question these workers, actually the proposals they make. I don't like it. I would like us to have a substantive debate here, because there is a problem here, and I therefore beg you, fellow Members of Parliament, so that you do not perceive this proposal politically but practically. I would also like to ask Minister Maláčová from ČSSD, who laughed here a moment ago. I don't think the problem of abuse of welfare inadaptable is funny at all. Madam Secretary laughs when I talk about it. I think we at the SPD think it's not funny. I don't know what the point is that we want to end the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptables and motivate them to live a good life, what's so funny. Yes, you may laugh, Madam Secretary, that you and the ODS have been with the government the longest since 1989, you have not changed anything, on the contrary, you have set up this system and, on the contrary, you have maintained this system here for a long time. But it's not funny at all that decent and decent people pay off the parasites and that you never wanted to change this place. And now you're gonna be telling us, Madam Secretary, how you come up with your own proposals. We noticed that after we filed the amendment and our amendment is widely mediated, so after 20 or more years of ČSSD in politics, actually for almost 30 years, you've picked up some of the points, which is fine, and they say you're going to be planning some kind of government novel. Well, we already know that the amendment will be ineffective, and if you even present it, if it ever passes, then the same system where inadaptable people parasite on your system will continue, because it cannot be dealt with by partial changes and some kind of proclamation, how everything will change. That's what you've been saying for almost 30 years as a CSSD. And you haven't changed anything. So I'd like to get back to our proposal. I had to comment on the fact that Secretary Maláčová here is laughing that we want to change that. The draft law of the SPD pen also has a motivational character. One of the proposed prerequisites for compliance with a social aid applicant is the proper performance of parental duties, including proper pre-school and school education law. This, of course, is what we propose to clarify these obligations. I believe that we all agree that the key to at least getting the children out of poverty and not ending up on welfare benefits like parents and grandparents is education and education. And let's not get illusions, proper upbringing doesn't have socially inadaptable children in the family, on the contrary, they learn from the family the same life without work and often outside the law. School and kindergarten are our only hopes of changing lifestyles. In particular, the school, at least compulsory annual pre-school preparation, is crucial mainly for Romani children. Many of them do not know the Czech language properly, so from the first class they have far worse starting conditions to be successful in learning. [[18.10 hours]] Another extreme handicap of children not only Romani but from families socially inadaptable is absolutely insufficient background at home. Here too, social authorities need to have leverage over their parents and force them to provide their children with backgrounds that enable them to prepare for school as best as possible. Of course, it is also necessary to force parents to send children to school at all, even though, in theory, parents can be prosecuted for such conduct. In practice, this institute is used only minimally. And let us admit that our goal is not to put our parents in prison at all costs, but to motivate them to live properly and to properly raise their children and lead to responsibilities that primarily include school attendance. At this point, entitlement to social assistance becomes a positive motivation for parents to fulfill their responsibilities. Of course, one of the objectives of the proposed amendment to the law is not only addressability, but also a reduction in the number of recipients of social benefits and restrictions on citizens who have temporarily found themselves without their own action in material distress and are actively trying to get out of this situation by themselves. Here we hope that our amendment will only be one of the stones in the mosaic of systemic changes. The state and municipalities must be able to offer people not only temporary social assistance, but preferably right away proper work. That means money for work right away. And here we are, of course, facing another problem, and that is the widespread abuse of granting disability pensions by so-called inadaptables. We know from practice that, on the one hand, real disabled people often have difficulty in obtaining a disability pension after severe accidents or very severe diseases such as cancer and social security. But on the other hand, the current system makes it possible that we have a very large number of disabled people in quotation marks, who are of working age, and in cities they walk in black Mercedes and Beemers. I think it would be worth instigating an extensive revision of such disability pensions and changing the settings so that really needy, incompetent citizens have the opportunity not only to obtain a disability pension, but to be at a dignified level, at least to be above the poverty line according to the European Statistical Office's measurement, which is now about 14,000 net per month for the Czech Republic. On the contrary, we should withdraw support for those who are so-called inadaptable and abuse the system. A law which introduces and guarantees a minimum decent pension for old-age and disabled pensioners at the level of the poverty line has already been filed under the SPD and is waiting for discussion here in the House. Of course, for old-age pensioners, while maintaining the conditions of years worked and from the basic amount of the amount of credit. And I don't really see why we shouldn't accept it, because I dare say that no one here in this House, I believe, wants the old people who have worked their whole lives or people who are truly infirm and disabled to live like beggars below the poverty line. Moreover, their support in the form of social benefits is not only humiliating and undignified, but it costs more money, rather than getting it needed, we spend on managing a complicated system, on officials and bureaucracy associated with it. I would like to appeal once again, because I have heard here that this proposal will not be released by the government coalition of the ANO, the CSSD and the KSČM until further reading, and I have heard that they might want to return it to work. To work out what, when the proposal was processed by many people, the practitioners who consulted us, from the practice of those who face the very work of the inadaptable citizens every day? Every day those social workers go to those locations, and everyone knows it, even those who say they want to return it, they know it! Mrs Aulická on behalf of the KSČM also knows this very well because she is from the Ústí Region and she knows that it is also the City Council, the Social Department of the City of Ústí nad Labem, who helped us with the amendment, Madame Labem. So it is probably quite wrong to say that the proposal is not well processed, because it is of course well processed, it is very well processed, Mrs Aulická, and yet you cannot, because you are also from the Ústí Region, vote for the return. You can, but then it turns out that you don't care about the problem, and I know you think inside you think the proposal is right that you want it, too, so you're smiling at me here. A little different from the secretary who was laughing. So I just wanted to appeal to it, ladies and friends, there is a really complex novel after many years, which this segment at least to some extent more comprehensively, I would say, solves, and it would be a good starting point for a second reading discussion to finally move it forward. Because your argument by the government submitting its proposal is what we have heard here, the citizens have been hearing it for 30 years, and there has never been a proposal. And then citizens, decent and working citizens, pay off the parasites. So if we're gonna wait here another month to see if you're gonna even propose a partial proposal, and so far, the secretary who's gonna perform after me, she imagined, yes, she finally pissed off our proposal, so it kicked the ÈSSD a little bit, because, of course, they're looking at where they're going to run the preferences, that's legitimate, that's okay, that's all we're all looking at, so she's just saying something, and it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough and it's bad. But most importantly, the problem is that by not letting us go on with it, actually, ČSSD and Minister Maláčová are causing the next months to actually pay off decent and decent citizens for the parasites, because they're gonna be delayed again. And that's a fact! That's right! We all know how long the legislative process has been going on here. So now either the Secretary will reject it, as our proposal has just been mocked here, that is, it is equal to the fact that the next months and months and a long time will continue to pay the decent and good people to those parasites, or we will move on, and the Minister and the government coalition will put their amendments in the second reading into this proposal. That's a fair offer. And we'll speed it up for everyone. We're offering you a solution. So if you have any comments, put it in your second reading, show your constructivity, move on, in a very short period of time there may be a change of law in the world, and finally decent and decent people will come first, which is the SPD's password. Otherwise, I wanted to add to the suggestion that we consulted the proposal not only with professionals, but we consulted the affected cities and municipalities that sent us a letter. I personally visited these places, I am thinking specifically of the town of Úpice in the Hradec Králové Region, where I personally visited them here with Mrs Šafránková and our Member Podal, we were there for the SPD, and we gave them the novel to comment on. So once again, there were two directors of the local elementary school, mayor, deputy mayors, social experts. And we agreed that our designs were good, that the SPD novel was good, and they said it would really help them. The town of Bílina in Ústí Region is complaining as well. The problems are in Rotava in the Karlovy Vary Region, in the Moravian-Silesian Region, everywhere. Those decent and decent people and cities, as if to have mercy, are waiting for this issue to be resolved, and we, the SPD, are the first to come up with that. Finally, we came up with this as the first political party, and now here from Minister Maláčová, from Mrs Aulická, it means ČSSD, KSČM, we hear that this is wrong. This means cities, mayors say it's a good thing, experts say it's a good thing, elementary school directors who are struggling with huge problems even within school children from inadaptable families in primary schools, say it's a good thing, so those who are dealing with it every day and are professionals in the field, decades in it, say it's a good thing, but those who aren't moving in it, but politicians, and the secretary here fits the expert on these social benefits, so they say it's not a good thing, just because she proposed it to the SPD, and they want to pass on the political soup behind the ČSSD, or, for the government coalition still with the ANO and KSČM movement, and you just want to reject it again, so that people pay it as a dizzy. [[18.20 hours]] Looks a little bit to me, the housing supplement proposal from the last term. The SPD came up with an excellent proposal, which we also consulted with experts to deal with abused housing payments. At that time, Secretary Tominová and Minister Dienstbier had promised here, and they said last term that our proposal was imperfect, and they rejected it, saying they'd come up with their own novel within six months. Not only didn't come in six months with their own novel, they came in about a year or two. This means that the ČSSD, through its policy, has literally withdrawn from the Czech budget an amount estimated within billions, because more than a year or a year and a half, has abused the housing supplement just because the ČSSD politicized, and instead of adopting our law and possibly adjusting in second reading, so that the Dawn at the time had no political points, so it was rejected, and then we waited here for a year or a year or a half or two years for your proposal, which was still not perfect, but basically copied our proposal. He basically copied it. Just so it's not said that the SPD is promoting good proposals that it was the CSSD. But as you know, it didn't help in the election anyway. I want to say that even this experience, which you did in the ČSSD elections, should tell you, come cooperate, do not reject good proposals and move the good proposals forward. I have a letter from Úpice, where they complain. And I also gave an interview to both Minister Hamáček and Minister of Education of Plaga. Interestingly, although the deadline has passed, I still do not have an answer from the Minister of Education of the Plaga for the ANO movement. Although I attach that letter to the town of Úpice where the city is, the elementary school directors complain that there's just a bad system. And I'm asking the Minister how he wants to change it so that the teaching in primary schools is a little comfortable so that the decent kids don't pay for the rude ones. I don't have an answer from Minister Plaga of the ANO movement. I don't think he's interested in dealing with the situation. But I got the answer from Minister Hamáček, but of course there's nothing unsolved. We are standing here in the SPD and helping the cities and municipalities affected by this issue directly. And again, I was gonna ask you here not to throw sticks at us. Please, let's let it go to second reading, and let's put the changelings in there. We are happy to say that it was in cooperation with other political parties. Let's not take advantage of that. But let's move on, please. I was going to ask you here again not to go back to work. It's just for those who listen to this speech, it's kind of a terminus technique in the House, if you want to turn something down, it's like those government parties are going to come back to work, and there's nothing to work out, because they can do it at second reading, but no, because it would be wrong, but because a political consensus is going to be made. Finally, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you to release our proposal for second reading and we will also like to discuss your factual comments. Now, let's hear from me, Minister Maláčová, who will certainly criticize our proposal, will spit on how bad it is, especially so that it doesn't have to be accepted, especially to delay it. So it's gonna be another reality show live now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u7	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister, there is a factual point. But first, let me introduce you to my apologies. Mrs Majerová Zahradníková has been apologizing since 18.30 without giving any reason. For reasons of work, Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 5:30 pm to 23:00 pm. And Mr Petr Venhoda apologizes because of a doctor's visit between 18 and 19 o'clock. We will proceed by giving the floor first to Mr Jiří Bláha with a factual remark, then with the right of priority, Minister Maláčová and with the right of priority, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who is the rapporteur here, and then we will continue with those who are duly applied for. Mr Bláha - factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to what has been said here. I certainly wouldn't want to say if something's been done wrong or not, because I really can't say. It is clear to all that the benefits are being abused. The fact that it's been a remnant of the last 30 years, the way the whole system's been developing, I think we're all pretty clear about that. The fact that benefits are being abused across the spectrum, that it is not just the inadaptables that are taking advantage of it, but all citizens, because let's face it, if I can achieve something, I'm gonna touch it. I remember an employee who came to me and said, "Look, there's a single mom-and-kid benefit," and I think my family and I are gonna divorce to touch it. And this way, we could go through the whole spectrum. Now, the last time a guy comes in, he gets his first job at 32. And when he finds out that he's gonna get a paycheck that's gonna get his housing allowance or his housing allowance, he hit his job right away. That's it. Information across the entire social administration comes today and every day, which means that wherever you go, you hear it, the officials who encounter it tell you about it, they don't know how to proceed, and so on. Again, abuse bothers us all. I don't think we're gonna find a guy who doesn't say, bothers me, or doesn't mind. We all say it's okay. It also bothers those who abuse because they envy each other the benefits that someone has received larger and lower. So, unfortunately, that's the way things are between us. But do you think we should make this comprehensive law by putting it to the Members? Personally, I think it should be presented by the Ministry, but mainly on the basis of the incentives of the entire political spectrum, because I personally think that we should approach this as in the case of executions and go for it all. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u9	Thank you. It is now time for the Minister with priority rights. And one apology - Mrs Jana Levová from 18.15 am apologizes for the treatment of a family member until the end of the day of the hearing. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for a word on a matter on which everyone is probably an expert except for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. But I won't be nasty. I wasn't laughing at the Prime Minister. I was smiling at him. I think people may have different opinions, but they're supposed to smile at each other and treat each other nicely and decently, because where else would we go? So once again, Vice-President, I wasn't laughing at you, I was smiling at you. As far as the proposal is concerned, although we can smile so nicely at each other, I still have to say that the proposal is not well written. It is even technically very poorly written and, for this reason, the government has given its position on this proposal. I think the whole poverty problem is very complicated. Everyone's designing their own. For several months, I consistently say that this is one of the hardest tasks that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has in store. The number of excluded sites is constantly increasing. It has tripled over the last ten years despite the attention and care that we have devoted not only to executives, but especially in the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The problems associated with the growing trade in poverty are also constantly increasing for us. It's not just a question of so-called benefit abuse. In particular, it is a question of devastated housing sites, children without education and without any future, as well as devastated communities with no perspective, where there is no good economic situation, where there are almost no quality jobs, where there are increasingly empty, abandoned apartments. And this is an excellent opportunity for these poverty traders to move people who have no choice here are dependent on the social system. And that's why our problems are concentrated and strengthened. So one more time. Indeed, trafficking in poverty is not funny and requires a comprehensive solution. My question to Mr Vice-President would be if trade in poverty was considered such an important subject, so why did the SPD representative not participate in the task force as one of the only parliamentary political parties that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has convened and which met very intensively for several months. Because if we agree that this is a really big problem, then why was the SPD representative not involved in the work of this working group? Parliamentary parties were represented in the working group, municipalities involved were represented there, but also nonprofit organisations and other ministries were represented there, because trade in poverty is not only a problem of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Very closely related to housing, which means the Ministry of Regional Development. Very closely related to education, which means the Ministry of Education. But also with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Health. [[18.30 hours]] As has already been done here, before Christmas, I sent a draft of two laws to inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. It's actually an amendment that concerns housing benefits, a new addition to housing. Because we are talking about trade in poverty in particular -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u11	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. I turned you off for a while at the pass. It wasn't on purpose, you can go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u12	Vice-President Okamura says it wasn't, but I'll check it out. [[With laughter.]] That's funny, Mr. Vice-President, again. But I'm not making fun of you, but I mean well. This means that trade in poverty is particularly concerned with housing benefits and then employment and unemployment aid. Recently, two weeks ago, the inter-ministerial commentary procedure ended, and at this point in time, we are dealing with the factually different views that we have. And I assume that the government proposal will go to the Chamber of Deputies in the next few months. I would also like to comment on the fact that we have copied the proposals from the SPD. It's not true. I think it was the other way around, because the government proposal contains 23 concrete steps. Very well discussed concrete steps both of a legislative nature - those are the two laws that I mentioned - and of a non-legal nature. In particular, there is systemic social work in municipalities in the non-legislative package. This means helping the municipalities concerned. It mentions the reorganisation of labour offices so that labour authorities have better tools to address problems in the localities. But there is also an increase in life and existential minima for those who really cannot work. There's also an increase in the amounts of an unforgivable minimum. We have agreed with the Minister of Justice in recent weeks on this change and I am very pleased that the Ministry of Justice is sending this proposal to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure. If I were to briefly describe the government bill, I would describe it with an expression of balancing rights and obligations. Because I really think that's the right functional approach. Helping those who need help and should get a fair chance to get out of their problems, but at the same time expect to actively solve their problems. This means once again: balancing rights and obligations. The last thing I would like to say about these proposals is compulsory school attendance and collection of housing benefits if the children do not go to school. I think we should put our emotions aside and think about whether the current situation, when these kids don't go to school and come out of primary school illiterate, is satisfactory. I don't think so. In Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region we have 16 percent of children without completion of primary schooling. And I think that they are children without a future, and that is why I am trying, for example, to address their situation with this proposal so that they have a chance in life. And logically, too, if we do not pass the problem of exclusion and poverty from generation to generation, then we will have a better chance of putting an end to the trade in poverty. So only for me. I consider this a very serious problem. One of the biggest tasks facing the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I say this in the context of pension reform, amendments to the Social Services Act, support for families, the employment package and all the challenges that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently addressing. And I very much hope that we agree in substance on these proposals for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u13	Thank you and I now have two priority rights here, so the rapporteur, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, will then prepare the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in a state now that I don't know how to react. Since I wanted to respond to the Vice-President, perhaps by your means to you alone - just to admit the right things as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned. I really need to comment on what Mr Okamura said here because it touched me personally and I don't think his response was just adequate. I feel like I'm running out of arguments, so populism is starting to splash in here, but that populism actually grew over the embarrassment that really happened here. Firstly, I would like to say that KSČM is not a coalition, but that we tolerate the coalition, virtually. The government that was created here. So I'd like you to stop constantly saying we're KSČM as coalition. It's not true. And the fact that we're going to give a real opinion here, which is actually that the proposal is aimed at, although populistly, but it's aimed at the situation that we've been discussing over the long term, but it's legally technically wrong, so you don't like that we're going to evaluate a proposal that's really poorly written. And we, as KSČM, will not support ill-written laws! Don't ask us to do that! Because these are matters that will then take place in practice, and that practice will only address the effects because we have passed the poorly written laws here. And I really can't take this! I absolutely don't like the fact that you're reacting, that we're not experts. Of course, you don't think we're not negotiating here? Since 2015, I have brought the Social Policy Committee to Most and the Ústí Region twice, I have brought the Health Committee there, I have brought the Prime Minister there. Yes, it was a big problem, but the pressure has evolved at least in the 15 measures to combat poverty, although unfortunately, the Prime Minister's government is not responding as adequately as we would have imagined. But the result is at least that we have a value map from the Ministry for Regional Development and, accordingly, the Housing Adding Act, which KSČM fully supports, has been passed. Because this is the first big amendment and the first big contribution that comes for structurally disabled regions. I would like to say to the address of Minister Plaga. Minister Plaga, although he does not participate very often in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so he also responds to the situation in structurally affected regions. He may have been in the Ústí Region several times. Now we're discussing another visit, and we're dealing with the situation that's not there. Yes, we have, for example, an average number of apologized hours in Khan's 160! Does it seem quite normal to you that we should be constantly observing this situation? Not to me. And I am not at all afraid to say yes, there is a big problem that we children are not getting into schools, and Minister Maláčová also has it in that government amendment, even though you, of course, do not go to schools and we will say yes, we will help you, this family, but we absolutely do not care what obligations you perform or not. So we say no! Let's finally say yes, we, the state will help you, the state will take care of you, but you must also do something to that state. Let it be that we will do the classic things that fill other families. I would like to say that we have also waited a long time to revise the uninsurable dosage system, and I must say that I am disappointed at the form in which it eventually came or did not come. But at least he's taken a step forward, and I believe it's still another job for the next House, because we all know how it actually takes to discuss these areas here. But I miss the harmony of other ministries. Madam Secretary Maláčová said it here. Fifteen measures to combat poverty are six ministries! Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour and Ministry of Regional Development. So far, only MMR and MPSV have worked. In fact, we can also have some fun with the Ministry of Health, because there have been at least some methodological shifts in the field of bugs, which unfortunately also bothers us. [[18.40 hours]] But I have to say that the arguments that have fallen on my head here, that we are more or less not communicating and that we are presenting or supporting things that we do not have to communicate, that is simply absurd. And I'm putting myself against it here because I'm the one who's always visiting working groups that communicates with experts, with labour authorities, with regions, both health and social areas, but of course they also go to these troubled localities. And I'm very sorry if I'm really learning things that aren't based on the truth, and they're only said to be populist, and to show that we're here to play those who have a saving novel that's really wrong written. And I would just like to say - the measure of a general nature was from the ODS workshop and I think that it was presented by colleague Vilímec, who is sitting in the Senate today, and we are dealing with measures of a general nature today in those structurally affected regions, and we are actually waiting for the parameters of the constitutional lawsuit brought by a group of senators, because it still affects us in the other decision-making powers of those authorities. And I would just like to say once again, Mr President, to you that a measure of a general nature causes the payments of material distress not to be issued. So I'd like us to at least know what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u15	The chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala will now perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've made some notes. At first, what interested me - and I must say that I am not an expert on social matters, but I am already sitting here for a while and I remember what we were discussing here - was that Mrs Aulická, a fellow Member of the Aulická, through the President, said that the KSČM is not part of the coalition. It is not part of the coalition, but we know functionally that without them - yes, they tolerate the government - nothing would have passed without them. That means, functionally, that means it's itself. Next thing I know, it's politics. What's wrong with the SPD's pen is wrong, but it's wrong because the government and those who tolerate the government have written a new novel which, of course, will, or we all know it's going to pass now, because the government's coalition plus the KSČM, which tolerates the government, has enough votes to make this government amendment pass. By the way, I've never seen her before, she's a pigeon on the roof, but she probably exists, and we'll see her soon. However, at least we tried to do something about it. I'd like to go back to the secretary's. Madam Secretary through Mr President, perhaps even without media, because I can address the ministers directly, I think we all have a common interest that we want to prevent the abuse of social benefits, that those people who think they will not work and have their feet up and feed them those who work and pay taxes properly, that we should prevent it. I think it's a big contribution to the state budget, but I don't want this money that we'd get into the state budget by preventing the abuse of benefits, to be dissolved elsewhere. But I can imagine that using these funds, for example, we're able to get those kids into schools, those that don't go there. We are able to provide a lot of other things that we cannot provide today, because we do not have enough money for them and we prefer to give the money to people who say that it will not pay them to work because the state will take good care of them. Another thing I noticed. The secretary kept saying that it was a poverty trade. I don't think so. After all, we fought the poverty trade at a time when traders rented small apartments for incredible money without sanitary facilities to people who simply didn't have their own housing. That's also what the SPD came up with to put an end to this, so that the money the state spends here on the malo-metro apartments and these things, somehow optimized, and that's what happened. But I think that more than dealing with poverty, we're dealing with poverty right now, that's the right term and the right turn in the abuse of benefits. And I believe that the money that we would get by stopping using ourselves, part of it, at least a small part of social benefits, can be used very rationally and well to ensure, for example, that children go to schools, to educate themselves, to move the society in some way, and not to create as many excluded locations as we all know that they are constantly increasing. So, Madam Secretary, I think - and not that I want to correct you - but I think that not the trade in poverty, but the fight against poverty is the right term that we should now accentate and work with. So just to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u17	Now I have two factual points here. First, Mr Jaroslav Holík and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u18	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I will think a little bit now. Is the solution to this law a problem, or isn't it? I think it's a problem and something should be done about it. And instead of working this out together, we're bringing up conflicting arguments here. Please, let's do one thing - let's give all people roughly the same conditions, not to be abused and not to be abused. I think our company deserves this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u19	With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Bláha, a single factual point so far. Mrs Monika Jarošová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to thank the SPD for bringing this up. Because, of course, she provoked some debate and we can move on. Personally, I'd like to ask you, the subject is so hugely wide, so very important that it's pointless to be insulted here, who doesn't want to feel guilty about it, that someone populistly, someone partying, someone within the government's Garniture. I think we should put this behind us. After all, at the executions, we have proven that we are able to talk to each other about problems, that we are able to find ways and that we are able to move those paths. So let's make a deal that, whether it hits today or when it comes to voting, how it just needs to, if it brings something to the ministry, everybody sit down, open up, say their suggestions, tell their findings, and then find the right way to go and how we could set it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u21	Mrs Monika Jarošová will now appear and Mr Radek Koten will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u22	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Surely we can all agree here that the benefits of material distress should be a means to bridge the plight of life and to ensure the dignified survival of those who are currently dependent on them. However, in no way can they be an easy way of life for those of them who have chosen to live comfortably at the expense of all of us. Nevertheless, it is desirable for the amount of benefits to ensure a dignified life. They must be set up so as not to remove the incentive to work honestly. Unfortunately, for some recipients of these benefits, motivation for honest work is the last thing they want to get excited about. If we know where some recipients of these benefits depend on them for decades and get away with it, then something is wrong in this system. For one thing, these beneficiaries are gradually losing social habits, among which they definitely belong, raising a generation of children who have never seen their parents work and have no incentive to do so in their case. [[18.50 hours]] At a time when our companies are faced with a shortage of workers, including those with the lowest possible qualifications, the payment of a benefit to chronic workers is indefensible. This money is then missing in the case of those really needed, such as our seniors, disabled or single parents. We often hear from our politicians that in the future there will not be enough money for pensions for people who have worked honestly all their lives. And that is exactly the example where the money is paid to those who are not entitled to it. I believe that the amendment to the law on material distress, as presented by the SPD, will contribute to greater address and fairer payment to those really needy. I believe that it will also help to return the long-term unemployed back to the work process. Regardless of the fact that these parents will be a good example for their children, who, when asked what they want to be in school, answer that they want to be as parents at the employment office. Dear ladies and gentlemen, although it is not before the elections and there is no campaign going on, where many parties promise to correct their electorate's abuse of social benefits, I beg you to support this law. With this gesture, you can prove to your constituents that you're serious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u23	Mr Radek Koten will now appear and Mr Jan Bauer will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me to present a few observations on the amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need. Compulsory school attendance and compulsory annual training for her are one of those basic tools of socialization of the child and its integration into society, its anchoring, especially from the perspective of preparing for future higher education or the performance of some qualified profession. At the same time, it is not justified to pay social benefits to those who do not fulfil their legal obligations in relation to the State and fundamentally to their children. Boycotting schooling has long been causing problems in the education system, and thus less chances for future child application, which, thanks to absences, do not have a chance of a single and productive life later in adulthood and become beneficiaries of social benefits again. Unfortunately, a bad example of parents plays a very important role in this. Therefore, they too need to be forced to rethink their attitudes in order to adopt work habits. This change is very necessary, as I would compare the current situation to pyramid games, because every 15 years, thanks to generous and unaddressed state support for the abuse of benefits, the number of benefits paid will be doubled due to the increase in the abuse population. Of course, the cost of the budget for these benefits is increasing in the same proportion. Thus, with a view to the next 30 years, the existing system is virtually and effectively unsustainable. That is why it is necessary to adopt the amendment to the Law on material distress and thus create conditions for the future generation of workers and to stop the total plundering of the social system by those who abuse it but do not contribute a crown to it at the same time. I hope that even here from the government ranks for this law will be support, because if it doesn't, the system will run out one beautiful day, and I don't think anybody wants this here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u25	I will now ask for Mr Jan Bauer's speech and Mrs Babišová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a long time, so I almost feel like I should say good evening. But I had a few questions prepared here, and no doubt, when I look at the timetable, I'm sure it won't come up. Just a few notes, though. I want to say that I will certainly not, and I do not want to be a lawyer for this House press, but even under the impression of last week's Social Policy Committee negotiations, I think that these arguments are very similar and are very similar to what we experienced last week. I have my first point here, which happens to be on you, Mr. Vice-President through you. The SPD comes first to solve this problem. I'd just like to point out that you're definitely not the first. We submitted a similar one about a year ago, although not so extensive, amendment to the Law on Aid in Material Need and may have noticed the working name is three times and enough. We wanted to address especially those in those excluded localities who repeatedly commit serious offences. And you may have noticed that your colleague Lucie Šafránková was also signed under this proposal. So you weren't the first and the proposal was submitted here a year ago and even passed through the first reading. A second point, perhaps in the account of Mr Jirka Bláha, through Mr President. All major laws are best presented by the Ministry, in this case the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I would very much like that, too. But let's face it, not even as serious things as line construction and construction of motorways in the Czech Republic, have been realized, and this improvement and acceleration have not been realized through a government proposal. And we even had to do 316 (?) put together as a parliamentary proposal. And it tells of the ability and quality of individual ministries to solve the big things and present them to the House. Another remark, I have a feeling she said Madam Secretary. It's a tough subject for one person, it's almost too much. I understand that the Party and the Government have carried out really big tasks on the shoulders of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because he is in charge of pension reform, he is in charge of financing social services, the employment package, the pro-family policy, and even now he is coming up with an addition to housing. The way I understand it, both the government and the party expect a lot from you, but unfortunately, there are no results in any of the areas I've named here. And I think that is the main reason why we are meeting on the House floor with individual parliamentary proposals, whether it was our proposal three times and enough, or now a proposal from the SPD, because the specific ministry is unable to present any comprehensive proposal to change the issue. For the addition to housing, Madam Minister, I would just like to say, through Mr President, that I have not only encountered significant opposition from some groups. At the beginning, I also referred to the Committee on Social Policy that many of these things are sympathetic to me, but I would like to point out that when discussing with your members on the part of social democracy, I found that they might be the biggest obstacle, because they have big problems with this proposal. And that's where you should be looking for your support. The last thing I want to mention - I've said it here several times - are three numbers. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has a budget, which is the chapter 313, approximately CZK 686 billion. It is 44 per cent of the state budget, and from this chapter around 94 per cent are mandatorial expenditures. And compared to last year, the mandatorial spending went up by about 9 percent. I say this for the reason that everyone, and may not have any economic education or Harvard, will understand that the financing of this chapter is unsustainable in the long term and that one of the main topics and the main task of the Ministry of Labour should be to revise these benefits. And we were calling for that revision as opposition. I feel that the Minister of Finance has called for a review of social benefits, and even the Prime Minister, and we have not yet received any revision of social benefits. Which I think is a big problem. The second circuit that we are dealing with and with which this House press is related is how the CZK 686 billion is actually redistributed within all benefits. I recognise that a significant part of this is pension, and that, too, the increase in the mandatorial expenditure is pension. But it's really a big issue, and we've repeatedly asked you to think about the redistribution, which means the use and allocation of the social benefits. [[19.00 hours]] Nothing has yet come into the Chamber of Deputies, apart from the addition to housing, and for this reason I think that it is an elementary right either for each Member or for any member of the Club, if there is really nothing coming from the Ministry of Labour - you haven't even done anything about the 15 measures on excluded sites - so it is right to present these proposals here. And I repeat, I do not wish to defend this House's press, but I do not think that, as I have studied these seven measures, it is worth a chance for him to pass through our vote until further reading, because I do not see anything on any of the measures that you mention there that this House or the relevant committees should be dealing with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-002-176.u27	You've ended your speech so incredibly accurately. Exactly, when the 7:00 p.m. came up, that's admirable. So I guess I don't have to quit, interrupt your performance, so I'm interrupting today's meeting, and I'll see you tomorrow at nine o'clock, we'll continue. Have a lovely evening.
