ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u1	76. Government bill repealing the Senate's statutory measure No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation /house print 866/ - first reading We interrupted the discussion of this point earlier today before the lunch break in the general debate. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Karel Rais, take the seats at the rapporteur's table. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. Members of the Hrnčíř, Rais, were enrolled with factual remarks before this point was interrupted. With priority rights, Mr Tomio Okamura. Mr Tomáš Martínek was signed up for the general debate and Mr Karel Krejza reported from the place. At this point, I am making a factual comment to Mr Jan Hrnčíř. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to comment briefly on the law and what has been said here by the Minister. We welcome, of course, that the government has finally come up with a proposal to abolish the property acquisition tax, because we consider it at least a very unnecessary tax. Unfortunately, on the other hand, the deduction of interest on mortgages and loans from construction savings is abolished. That means we think it's a setup. A betrayal on young families, a betrayal on people who build their own housing, and the support that was in the form of deductions here on these interest rates was very, very good. We are also responding to this through the amendment. We say well, the limit of CZK 300,000 a year to deduct interest may be high. These are mortgages of 10-12 million crowns. So we will put an amendment to a deduction of at least CZK 100,000 per year, i.e. mortgages somewhere at the level of CZK five or six million at current rates, because we do not consider it appropriate to completely abolish this institute. We think that housing support and support for young families and low-income families are simply necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u3	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Karel Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u4	Thank you. I would like to ask for a shortening of the time to discuss the bill between first and second reading for seven days. Because he's a committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u5	I'm registering this proposal. With priority rights, Mr Tomio Okamura is here in the hall. Mr. Vice-President, with priority rights, to the point... [[Consulting off the microphone.]] Yes. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I must say that we are glad that the government has taken up a proposal for the SPD to abolish the real estate tax after six months. The SPD movement has inserted this bill into the system in the House 11. 11. 2019. And for a few months, we've been calling on the government, basically six months, to accept this SPD proposal to abolish property acquisition tax, to make it cheaper for citizens to acquire real estate. The problem is that the government misspelled the SPD proposal because the SPD proposal is that the real estate tax should only be abolished. But the government also cancels the possibility of discounting interest on mortgages and building savings at the same time with the abolition of the property acquisition tax. That means the government, on the one hand, leaves money to people - that's the SPD proposal, and we're glad you took it - but at the same time pulls the same money out of people's pockets in another way, canceling the possibility to deduct mortgage tax interest and building savings. And that's the point I'd like to repeat over and over again, so that people can remember that actually this proposal is so hypocritical. [[18.40 hours]] I have to say, it's really a mockery of working decent people, because those properties are made from once-taxed money. That means, they're decent working people, they're not even black money, they're not pre-tax money, they're honest earners, and they're gonna go buy real estate with that honest-earned tax money. So the government's approach to this kind of thing really seems very bad to me. As far as we are concerned, I would also like to add that the abolition of property tax should, by the way, also be the first step towards the abolition of additional duplicate taxes. Tax on the acquisition of real estate in the case of an ordinary citizen effectively taxes already taxed money for which it buys real estate. This, of course, is not the end of this, but the State is still punishing a person who invests in housing and does not spend money by charging additional taxes every year, namely property taxes. So first, the property acquisition tax, then the real estate tax, and now the government is proposing to cancel the possibility to deduct interest on mortgages and construction savings. That's the reality of this proposal. And if the owner of the house currently wants to buy the property that is adjacent to his house, not only is the purchase of taxes of course, but the state quietly has another speciality of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Finance for Tax Payment recognises only the price found or administrative, which is determined by the tables in the so-called. a valuation decree. So, even if you're buying a worthless site for a few thousand, Secretary Alena Schillerová of the ANO movement here will charge you several thousand for every air raid tree. And if you're buying land at your house, you still have to pay a tax not on the market price, but on the price artificially increased several times. This is incredibly rude and unfair to decent and working citizens, and it is based on the fact that the state, let us understand the government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, is now trying to rip out more and more money from people, and at the same time so that it is not seen, such as a direct increase in income tax. So the government is sophisticating, Madam Secretary of the YES movement, but people see it, and that's why I'm explaining it here. I don't think so. The State should set the final and only income tax, that would be the ideal case, and one simple turnover tax instead of VAT and the remaining taxes cancel. After all, this is how it works in many of the most advanced countries, outside the European Union of course. And I do not want to hear here that the European Union does not allow us to do so. This merely points to the senseless regulations of the European Union. And why am I telling you about this one tax thing so no one walks around here again with this nonsense and there's a need for more taxes? But that is the ideal that we should gradually approach. We should aim for this ideal, simplify taxes so that everyone knows them, of course, to have what they need, but to leave people in their wallets with what they need to live well again. Every person should know that if we wanted to maintain the existing revenue of the state budget, the de facto one tax would be somewhere at 60 percent or more. Yes, we're handing over most of the money we make to the state. And the state continues to increase this burden, regardless of government. The difference is how clever, discreet and sophisticated he steals from working citizens. So once again, I call for the government to stop doing what it does to either indebt the country or raise taxes. But here again, I'm saying the SPD proposal to cut unnecessary spending in the budget. And that is not the case with the government. I'll repeat what's going on. There is a proposal from the SPD, which was prepared by our Member, Tereza Hyťhová, to abolish inclusion in education, which would save us 6 billion a year, and the public would welcome it in the overwhelming majority. I don't know why the government doesn't want to do this. I don't know why you don't cancel the inclusion. At the same time, no one is satisfied with it, neither the parents of healthy children, nor the parents of disabled children, nor the teachers, nor the directors, nor the schools. Furthermore, we propose not to buy the expensive equipment - 52 billion combat vehicles, 17 billion including US helicopters' VAT. This means, in a time of crisis instead of pouring money on some sort of armament, such as bulletproof vests, but it is a Czech company, if it were possible for Czech companies, I would understand that it is a support measure, Czech companies, Czech employees, companies that tax in the Czech Republic, so I would understand that it has at least some feature of a support measure from the time of the economic crisis. But to feed nearly 70 billion in times of crisis to foreign multinational corporations, so it really seems like he's crazy completely. And I have to say, that photograph of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš with Donald Trump last year, it's really expensive for us, and I said that right after the visit, when they took the picture in the White House, it's not gonna be easy and it's gonna be a really expensive photo. Thirty minutes, and that photo costs CZK 17 billion for helicopters, and extra outdated helicopters. So I say let's cut these expenses. Let's also cut the money for those solar barons 40 billion a year. Yes, she wants the European Union, we have to deal with the European Union. But what are those excuses? There are other reasons not to be there. And I'm talking about it in the sense that there's absolutely no reason for you, in exchange for canceling the property acquisition tax, which I'm saying again, is the SPD proposal, well, you've taken over, but at the same time, you're canceling people's opportunities to deduct the interest on the mortgages and the construction savings, because there are reserves in the budget. You don't want to cut the money for political nonprofits. There is also our bill that terminates the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. There's more money here. And you better get back on those decent working people who find it hard to get their own housing hot, and now prices are astronomical, and people often have to pay the mortgages their whole lives, and often not even in their entire lives, so it doesn't work out that they're gonna pay them. So I say, on the one hand, half of the proposal is good, that's the SPD proposal, that's the abolition of the property acquisition tax. Of course, with a smile, I always see the ODS and TOP 09 performances that say - we want to cancel the property tax now. But when you were in government, you raised it from 3 to 4 percent. So that's what it takes to figure out how it really was. When you were in the government and you could cancel it, you didn't cancel it. You just didn't cancel it. So that's what we want. I'd like you to stop pointing your watch at me from the ANO movement. I've been waiting here all day. And the fact that you're suggesting a bad proposal, it can't be done without us commenting on it. Let us express ourselves. [[Disagree from members of the YES.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u7	Thank you. Ambassador Chvojka. Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Chvojka Parliamentary Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u8	Thank you for the floor for the show, Mr. Vice-President. Good evening, colleagues. I think, as I feel here in the mood of basically all the MPs, that it is the will to complete this point, really this point, that means that we will not end up at 19, but at 19.05, 19.10, it would be a shame if we didn't finish today. So I would like to propose, on behalf of the two MPs, the CSSD club and the ANO movement club, that the Chamber of Deputies should act and vote on all proposals today after 7:00 p.m., I don't even put 21 there anymore, I want to do 19 p.m., with the fact that I believe that theoretically we will be able to do it by 19 p.m., if not, shortly after 19 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u9	Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u10	Maybe I just didn't catch it, is that until this point is discussed? Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u11	Yes. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u12	I think I've already said this, but every time I get out here, Vice-President Pikal asks, next time I'm going to explain more half-pathically. Yes, just until this point is discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u13	Yes, thank you. I've called all the deputies from the lobby. There's a procedural proposal, we're going to vote. I heard a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm signing you all out, please sign in, everyone. And we will be voting in a procedural way to discuss this law even after 19 o'clock until this point is discussed. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 60, 150 Members and Members, for 123, against 2. The motion was accepted. So, at this point, we have Mr Tomáš Martínek's general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Deputies has been waiting for a pirate proposal to be discussed since 2018, the House's press 293, which would reduce the proposed amendments when it abolished the real estate acquisition tax for the purchase of its own housing. For the family, the tax discount would be up to 240,000, so most buyers would not pay any tax. At the same time, the pirate proposal would have significantly lower impact on the state budget, which would also allow the buyer to retain the possibility of deducting mortgage interest from the income tax base. The government's proposal to cancel the possibility to deduct interest may damage some buyers overall. The proposal records more to rich people who don't need a mortgage. The new government proposal will also not support the new construction of flats, because the buyer of new constructions which do not pay tax will now lose the possibility to deduct interest. Thus, the proposal is likely to cause the purchase of land and real estate for the rental of people with sufficient capital as an investment during the financial crisis, which could also increase the average price of real estate. An extension of the time test may not be sufficient measures against speculators. On the other hand, the proposal to abolish the tax is still better than the current situation. As pirát, we will support the referral to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u15	Thank you. Mr Krejza and Mr Skopeček for debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u16	Good evening. Well, better late than late. I don't want to have a debate here about who was the first, who was the second, who was the third, but we've been trying for a long time. We haven't had too many compromises here as opposition, this time it looks like at least there's going to be a compromise. I will personally support this, even if our amendments do not pass, which will aim to re-establish deductions, because money is certainly more beneficial and valuable now than money over the course of 20 years. And I have to say, this tax is awfully annoying when a flat in a flat costs $2 million and then you have to reach into your pocket and pay at the last minute, and pay immediately, CZK 80,000. I think all the buyers will appreciate it, and the move on the flats market might get a little faster. I'm actually glad there's a proposal like this here, and I'm gonna support it, even though I'm saying, there aren't gonna be any changelings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u17	Thank you. Mr Skopeček is the last member of the debate. I will read the apologies because I have a number of them here, so I will ask for a moment of patience: Mrs Jana Levová apologizes today from 18.30 to the end of the day for work reasons, Mr Marek Výborný today from 18.20 to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský today from 18.45 to the end of the day, Mr Pavel Jelínek today from 18.55 to 22.00 until the end of the day for family reasons, Mrs Andrea Babišová from today to the end of the day, Vice-President Pikal from 19.00 for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u18	Thank you for the floor. I won't keep you long. We will support this proposal. I just want to make a few comments. As Madam Secretary, I also think that this tax is unfair, as I could read her comments on iDNES after Tuesday's press conferences. I also think so, but I just don't understand why, when the Minister voted on it several times in previous years and months, she thought it was a fair tax. So I would like to ask her when the transition came, the change of heart, because we voted on it January 2018, March 2019, September 2019, November 2019. The ODS has suggested this repeatedly, and unfortunately, when the Minister of Finance was behind this table, we have always heard her recommendation: I do not recommend approving it. I guess it was a fair tax then, so I don't know what happened, that after a few months, the fair tax became unfair, and I'd like to explain it. Otherwise, the proposal has been here since 2015. Vice-President Okamura says that this is their proposal, mentioned some year 2018 or 2019, and I want to say that thanks to the ODS it has been here since 2015 and it has been unsuccessfully voted on several times. [[The noise in the room won't stop!]] We will support this proposal because we really think it is an unfair tax. It must be realized that the person who buys housing must first earn the money that taxes his income tax and then starts to build, or buys an apartment, a house and pays a value added tax, then he should pay the property acquisition tax and then pay the property tax as such. So it's a multiple-taxed thing - housing. And I think that in this situation, both in the mortgage market and in the real estate market, this is something that is needed more than ever, and we will support it. But as is the case with our government, while it once puts money in one of your pockets, it wants to pull it out of the other pocket, so the effect can be zero or negative. And in this law, it is through the proposed abolition of tax deductions of interest on mortgages. We, of course, will be putting an amendment in the next reading to keep this deduction there, this tax advantage on mortgage interest. And we appeal very highly to the good sense of government MPs. Let us remember what economic reality we are living in today. The real estate market is frozen in its own way, thanks to the fact that the Minister is not entirely clever about abolishing real estate tax talking to the media for weeks, even months, and it only gets here at the Chamber of Deputies meeting now. And, of course, people who are thinking about buying an apartment or buying a house are speculating, not wanting to buy it at the moment, because they expect that tax to be abolished and that it will be avoided. So, in our own way, with these not entirely happy media statements x weeks or months ago from the Minister, we have caused the real estate market to be even more frozen than it would have to be due to the poor economic situation caused by the coronavirus. So let's get this approved as quickly as possible, and let's make the market unfreeze in some way, but on the other hand, we're asking that at least ten days be discussed in the committees, because, as I have announced, we want to propose an amendment that would maintain the deduction of interest on mortgages. We think that while interest rates are falling, we see that these people don't take mortgages as much as they did in the past, and if we took away this benefit from them, I think we would hurt the real estate market even more. So we are in favour of the law itself, we certainly want to abolish the property acquisition tax. We are pleased that the government has finally come to accept and agree to this proposal. I repeat that we have repeatedly proposed it here for several years, but we will want it to fall out of the bill to abolish interest deductions so that mortgages are as beneficial as they have been so far and we have helped the economy at least a little bit in waking up as far as the real estate market is concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u19	Thank you. With a factual remark, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u20	I've noticed that my colleague is proposing to shorten the deadline to ten days, so I'm withdrawing my proposal to the seven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary Dostálová with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u22	Really one sentence. I would only like to support this proposal as much as possible, because it will really make it very much easier for so-called secondhand real estate. And I would just like to say that, on the contrary, the mortgage market has already moved, because it will be backwards, that is, this information has immediately been recorded by the real estate market and really the volumes in those real estates are larger. And believe me, we really have contacts with these real estate brokers, and on the contrary, they're very, very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u23	At this point, I have no one enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I didn't want to speak originally, but two or three sentences. Two or three sentences, you let me. Well, that's easy. I have always given that dissenting opinion for budgetary reasons because I have an executive responsibility. It's 13 billion a year that would just be missing from the budget. So those were the only reasons. But as a person who has worked externally at the Faculty of Law of Masaryk University in Brno in the field of financial law for over 20 years, I am in contact with Professor Radvan and other experts on this tax, not only on this tax, but also on this tax, on property taxes as such, so I know that it is a tax that is unfair. I agree with you. That's a tax that doesn't actually have a justification. It is about halfway across the European Union. And look at the tax on who's paying it. She's being paid by natural persons. It is not paid by those who - which were lobbied by developers - do not pay by those who buy new buildings. And it's not usually paid by legal entities that go around by selling their shares. And it just never had any legislative solution that would come across constitutionally legal constraints. And now we're in a different situation. We are in a situation where we are looking for a way to support the economy and we are essentially looking for ways to support this market, too. Thank you, Minister Dostálová, for saying what she knows best here. I know that from her, of course. And I don't know if my statement was stupid or smart, I'm not gonna judge it here with generosity of my own, but anyway, it was like we were gonna forgive it backwards. And I said that in every statement. You'll find it in all of my social media statuses. That means there was no reason for anything to freeze. We have answered hundreds of questions from citizens. We just made it clear: don't worry, buy, buy, sign contracts. Because this thing has some inertia before it's discussed on the coalition board, on the government, and so on, but we'll do it backwards. This means transfers where the effects of the deposit occurred by the end of December 2019, i.e. the obligation to submit a return and to pay the tax was until 31 March. And you may have noticed who cares that, on the basis of the government's mandate, I have postponed the maturity of these taxes and the deadline for filing the return by 31 August of this year. And even there is a statement that if someone paid it anyway in the meantime, the tax will be refunded. So I think we've done our best. Interest on the loan, I don't think it's to support your own housing. We've got a whole bunch of people to lend their parents to. And they can't pay any interest. And if you compare it to what the young family gets immediately, but I get a lot of old people write that they've been saving their whole life for the house they want to buy for their retirement, and if that tax is really forgiven, and someone is applying interest on the loan, it's just a selective exception. He'll reach the same amount after about 30 years. And not everyone can reach it again. So I think we're committed to abolishing tax exemptions. We canceled a few. Not as much as I would have imagined. In addition, we postpone it even to contracts concluded after 1 January or to transfers concluded after 1 January 2022. And it's not about the current contracts. You run 25, 30 years. And, of course, it doesn't concern refinancing. If someone refinances, they'll get the contract, too. So I think it's kind of a package. And we forgot. There's an extension of the time test. This means that today, who buys the property, and if it has a permanent residence in it, of course, two years, and then the profit is freed at the sale. But who just doesn't have a permanent residence there, we obviously support this permanent housing, but who doesn't have a real estate there after five years - it also got into the Income Tax Act who knows and who knows why - it's been there for five years. [[permanent housing?]] Why? So we're just extending the time test to ten years. It's kind of a package that we've incorporated into it. And that's probably all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u25	Thank you. With priority rights, Mrs Černochová. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. We're closing in on the final one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u26	I don't want to prolong this debate here any longer, but I can't do this because I have a government resolution in front of me at the end of 2017, which expressed its disagreement with our original proposal. And it is not true what the Minister has just said here that her reasons were merely budgetary question marks, which she had, because paragraph 1 states, please: The Government considers the proposed abolition of the real estate acquisition tax as an unjustified and non-conceptual intervention in the Czech tax system. This tax has a long tradition in our tax system, and in various forms it is common in most countries of the European Union. Colleagues, colleagues, I am glad that the Minister has seen that the Minister has understood that the proposal of the Civil Democrats is amazing and excellent, and that he supports it today. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u27	Thank you. Madam Secretary wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u28	Just one sentence. I really promise. One sentence. This is all true, Madame. That's all there is to it. I'm not protesting it. We're in some kind of economic crisis right now. We've learned our lesson, and I don't want to attack right now, and we've learned from the solution that was taken ten years ago. On the contrary, we want to support the economy. We want to put liquidity in it. So that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-013-076.u29	Thank you. At this point, we will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see any such proposition. We will therefore proceed to the vote. I've started the vote. I ask who is in favour of the guarantee committee being the budget committee. Who's against it? Voting order number 61, registered 155 Members and Members, for 149, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I don't see a suggestion. Furthermore, we will vote on the shortening of the deadline under Paragraph 91 (2) of the Treaty. 2 and 3 shortening the period by 10 days. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? - Ten days. For 10 days. Voting order number 62, 157 Members and Members signed in for 140, versus 0. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this point. I am interrupting the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 14.30 tomorrow, when we will proceed with item 386 - Oral Interpelration. It is therefore necessary to submit applications for oral interviews no later than 11 o'clock. I remind you that tomorrow at 9 a.m., the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin.
