ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended /German press 889/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Before taking the floor, I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Volný to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. At the same time, I will ask the House for peace before I give the floor to Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I do not consider the level of noise to be proportionate to the importance of the law, and therefore, once again, I ask the House for peace, and those who discuss another topic to discuss it in the foyer. Thank you. Madam Vice-President of the Government, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce the third amendment to the Czech State Budget Act for 2020. I fully understand that some of you seem to find the number of negotiations for this year's budget unusual. I also understand that there is not much time for negotiations, you are required to make decisions in the short term and about considerable resources. However, I think that all this describes the extraordinary situation in which not only the Czech Republic is in, and the extraordinary situation requires extraordinary means and increased efforts. Any debate on the budget should be preceded by a debate on economic developments. This year, however, is very specific. Some institutions have even temporarily refused to process forecasts at all. They cannot blame it on the free fall of the economy or at least some sectors. Apparently, the last known comprehensive forecast for the world economy comes from the Book of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. On Thursday, 10 June, it issued its economic outlook, including forecasts in individual Member States. According to OECD, this year the Czech economy will undergo a deep, almost 10% contraction. The reason for this is the strong dependence of the economy on the processing industry, especially on the automotive industry and its great openness. We already know the development in part of the year. While the year-on-year decline in GDP in the first quarter was estimated by the Czech Statistical Office to 1.7 percent, some available data on the monthly frequency already indicate the depth of problems for the second quarter. Let me briefly mention them. [[10.40 hours]] April's industrial production fell by almost 34 percent year on year, of which car manufacturer outages almost stopped production in their sector. A similar story offers sales in industry. Much of the production is exported to foreign markets. The export of the Czech Republic decreased by 34 percent in April, mostly in road vehicles. However, the decrease of 40 per cent in industrial consumer goods, semi-finished products and materials is not negligible. Construction production fell by almost 5%, with land constructions reduced by around 11 percent. Furthermore, retail sales, expressed in constant prices, decreased by almost 11 percent. If we exclude the sale of motor vehicles from them, then by 5%. The value of new industrial contracts decreased by 42 percent, of which contracts abroad by about 45 percent. The picture is gloomy, although I firmly hope that April was the worst month of the year and that May was already better for many sectors. But it still shows significant year-on-year declines. Economic developments are then projected mainly on the revenue side of the Treasury's state budget implementation. For example, the collection of value added tax fell by 7 percent in January to May, not only because of the waiting for the tax payment of a total amount of 4.5 billion. CZK, but it is due to lower retail sales. In the year-on-year statement, VAT collection fell by 30 per cent purely in May. We are able to transfer the extent of the economic problem to the revenue of the state budget for almost half of the year of the treasury implementation of the state budget. Only macroeconomic developments without discretionary changes will bring more than 125 billion this year. CZK lower income on taxes and premiums than it was approved last year. Another 88 billion. the budget will be missing because of measures that mitigate the effects of the economic recession on different economic operators. I think it is appropriate to recall what measures these are. Compensation bonus for self-employed persons and for partners in small limited liability companies amounting to a total amount of about 25 billion, remission of minimum social security advances for self-employed persons for 15 billion, remission of social security premiums paid by employer for almost 14 billion, pending retroactive application of current tax loss for 13 billion. and the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax for 11 billion. Moreover, the revenue of the state budget no longer includes 16 billion. as a result of the shift in the VAT forecast, the yield of the auction of the frequency bands for 7 billion is missing, i.e. the budget reflects a decrease in the prices of emission allowances reducing revenue by another 2 billion. Overall, we estimate the revenue of the state budget for 2020 by 213 billion. lower than the approved budget at the end of last year, i.e. to 1,365 billion. Kč. On the expenditure side, the very influence of the economic downturn has not yet been significantly reflected. For example, unemployment benefits are only half a billion higher, but their imprint has left the pandemic itself in the form of increased health or rescue expenses, as well as an extended and increased infirmary for employees or self-employed persons. To this end, the payment for state insured persons, which is estimated at 21 billion, is increased dramatically from this month onwards. The koruna restores public health insurance outages. In addition, directly controlled hospitals, which were in the first line in dealing with the Corona epidemic, were indebted. We have offered programmes to employers affected by coronavirus, whether directly or indirectly, which cover part of the wage costs or participation in rental costs, operating loan schemes. We have created a lot of sub-projects and challenges in science, research and innovation related to COVID-19. Expenditure is increased in the field of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and others are considered for project preparedness. Total expenditure is planned to amount to 1,865 billion. CZK, the state budget deficit deepens the amendment to CZK 500 billion. Kč. Although state budget expenditure is currently increased by 136,6 billion. In part of the government's budget reserve, it doesn't mean it's a blank check to the government. Most measures go through the Chamber of Deputies, respectively. Parliament. The budgetary reserve - we took criticism and modified it with a comprehensive amendment tabled by the Prime Minister as a Member - remained in the amount of CZK 36 billion. This is mainly due to the fact that we are not able to anticipate these measures often at this time. A number of projects are being worked on, and at this point we do not know what the development will be in the second half of 2020, which means that we want the source of funding to be flexible to respond to the recent situation. However, I see the concerns of a number of you regarding the future distribution of this government budget reserve. That is why we have prepared, as I say, a comprehensive amendment, which programmes, which are either the continuation of these existing ones or are planned as new ones and for which we are assuming funding precisely within these programmes and are allocated to the relevant chapters. I believe that such a step addresses a substantial part of the objections to the current form of the amendment to the State Budget Act, concerns that probably do not come from the level of the deficit itself, rather from its structure. The amendment therefore respects the right of the Chamber of Deputies to decide on the amount and structure of the state budget of the Czech Republic to the maximum extent possible to which we are now able to anticipate and determine the purpose and amount of expenditure. At this point, I thank you for your attention, and I believe that together we will be able to overcome the difficult 2020 year, and I firmly hope that this amendment to the State Budget Act for 2020 is the last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I will now ask for the rapporteur's report for first reading, Mr Jan Volný. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u4	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I wouldn't extend my speech after an exhausting introduction. I would only really ask the honourable House for a constructive approach to discussing this law so that we can really achieve its approval at the earliest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. Before I open the debate, I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. For work reasons, Mr Karel Krejza apologizes. First, we will exhaust the proposals for the debate tabled by Members with priority rights. The first is Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura, and President Pekarová Adamová will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is asking us to increase the government's debt by a record 200 billion. CZK 500 billion on astronomical. CZK, half a trillion. That is quite unprecedented in the history of our republic. I will řeknout at the outset that the SPD will not support this intention, as the government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM also refuses to cut the proven unnecessary expenditure, which happens to be almost 200 billion, so it is not really necessary to indebt our Republic in this way. The SPD movement has presented a package of savings for unnecessary spending, and the government is not responding to it. The SPD movement proposes to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable, and we also propose to end the expenditure on inclusion in education, that is 6 billion, subsidies to solar barons, that is 40 billion. Every year, the end of public money funding from so-called political non-profit organizations, we also want to withdraw soldiers from Afghanistan, 0,75 billion. The presence of soldiers in Afghanistan costs the Czech Republic annually, further we want to cancel or at least postpone overpriced military purchases abroad, those old U.S. helicopters, it is 17 billion that Prime Minister Babiš promised the Američan during his last visit to the United States, fighting vehicles are 52 billion. CZK etc. These are all expenditures that, in times of crisis, do not really bring anything to decent and working people. It is now during a crisis when people are losing their jobs and at the end of the year there is a risk of unemployment of up to 10 percent, so now we need to redirect money to decent and working people and not spend it in that direction. And the government is rejecting these SPD proposals. The government is refusing these cuts. They'd rather owe all 10 million citizens. This is then a crazy and completely irresponsible approach to public finances. [[10.50 hours]] I noticed some lies yesterday that the SPD wants to end funding for nonprofit organizations. It's not true, we only care about those so-called political nonprofit organizations. These are the ones who promote the European Union for public money, positive discrimination, multi-culture, migration, etc. Of course, we have nothing at all and, on the contrary, we support nonprofit organizations that take care of old people, needy people, seniors, children, etc. Many of us remember the so-called '90s transformation. That's when the government asked the citizens to tighten their belts. Unfortunately, citizens were at the time teasing belts in a situation where the government was also managing record assets for today, which it had stolen, so while the simple people tightened their belts, selected elite groups with the support of politicians were discussing cheap state property without benefiting citizens. The privatization, the wild privatization of the '90s, I think we all remember. Well, stealing the earth took people's faith in the state and willing to sacrifice themselves for it. That is why it is impossible today to ask people to tighten their belts. And it has logic. This should be done by today's billionaires who have enriched themselves at the expense of citizens and the state just during wild privatization. Unfortunately, no one's asking anyone to do that. No doubt Mr. Sobotka and Mr. Hamáček from ČSSD will not want any return of privatized property from Mr. Bakal. So, as sheep to fleece, only a citizen is left to rule, even though the government is not telling him openly today. On the contrary, the government's record deficit - debt - gives the impression that it wants to give out to citizens. And indeed, the government's comment on the budget emphasizes - we put money there, we give entrepreneurs, we give culture, we give health care. But the reality is completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, taxpayers, first of all, let us say quite frankly that the government is giving nothing, the money is again being given to citizens. The government is only making record debt to their account, and they intend to redistribute their money. By the way, the European Union has a similar system. But back to us. In future years, we will have to start saving and the government will have to raise enough money from citizens to pay off this record debt. Everything that's going to be distributed or invested today, we or our children will pay for our taxes. Respectively, it will not be for adequate pension increases, it will not be for adequate support for working families with children, it will also not be for disabled people and for other people, nor will it be for the support of businessmen and small entrepreneurs. In the long run, we say that in times of crisis, the state is to invest and, above all, create new sources of income, and unlike pseudoconservative parties, we are not formalistic. Yes, money will help to move the economy, but there are several fundamental factors in how and how the money will be used to really move the economy. First of all, the government should start with it and look for resources in savings. As I mentioned at the outset, the government does not want to make any savings on unnecessary spending. And as I mentioned at the outset, in fact, if the government were to cut the unnecessary spending, we would not have to sit here at all today, and there is no increase in the deficit of 200 billion here at all, because the money is in the budget, and President Zeman rightly pointed that out. The second thing is to have a proper investment plan and, according to our court, these investments should not only go to compensation for affected companies and citizens and to building infrastructure, but also to projects that would generate revenue for the state. I can imagine that the state, instead of selling a license to the fourth telecommunications operator, will create and provide cheap telecommunications services, thereby naturally making existing commercial operators cheaper, because the state would not be driven by the effort to generate profits at all costs. As far as income is concerned, I would expect some analysis of the potential income that foreign companies are collecting today. A typical example could be the legal health insurance of foreigners or accident insurance of employers. Once again, the money that is being passed on to foreign insurance companies, foreign companies, and which could become the income of the state, as it once was. There is also an SPD bill on the table for taxing dividends that multinational corporations currently carry out without taxation from the Czech Republic, because they are allowed to do so by the legislation of the European Union. It is about 300 billion crowns a year, while Czech companies pay dividends within the Czech Republic must tax 15 percent. Perhaps all sides of taxation promised, but none, except the SPD, submitted any proposal to the House, because they actually servilely bow to the interests of Brussels and global corporations at the expense of our economy and at the expense of our citizens. So instead of creating a level playing field for Czech companies, the government prefers to go into debt and leave the situation as it is, it means that multinational corporations are favoured at the expense of Czech companies. At the same time, the Czech state budget now urgently - now necessarily - needs money for decent and working citizens. And I ask again, and I will keep asking the Prime Minister and his government why they refuse to ask Germany to pay us a debt for the repression of the occupation and the Second World War. And it's not some fiction, Poland and Greece are asking for a reparation! Germany owes us roughly CZK 15,000 billion in exchange for today's currency and interest. This debt cannot be withheld. This debt has never been disputed by the German Government, and neither does Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's government. He and his foreign minister Petříček from ČSSD in response to my interpelation only claim that asking compensation for war damage from Germany would spoil our beautiful relationships. The government's position is also trivial from the point of view that postwar Czechoslovakia had to pay the Western powers debts for World War II to the last pound. So, my dear friends, I think that when Germany spent 75 years building its prosperity for our money, today, in an emergency, the time has come for Germany to finally pay its debt and allow us to build prosperity, plus our money. But back to the state budget analysis. As far as investment is concerned, it is remarkable that the government does not actually know exactly where the money will go. And I'm not just talking about the planned budget reserve of the government of 137 billion. The decline in revenue collection by the end of the year is currently estimated at CZK 213 billion, the decline in gross domestic product by 8%, the car industry recorded a decline of 50 percent in May, and working families and companies and others have existential problems. This is the current situation. And the estimated unemployment rate at the end of the year is up to 10 percent of the current 3.76 percent. We therefore legitimately want the government to decompose individual chapters of the state budget of the ministries with a calculation of planned income losses and planned cuts in individual programme expenditures. Even in other segments, the government of the proposed budget is not entirely clear where the money will go. What exactly does increasing investment in the material technical base of state cultural facilities mean by one billion? Or will it just be for the minister, how and to whom exactly will he give the billion? We have no idea. Will they invest, for example, in their energy self-sufficiency to reduce their costs? Or, as usual in subsidies today, and I'm talking about culture, would a functional roof, for example, be exchanged for a new one just to spend money somehow? The model of unnecessary overpriced reconstruction, ladies and gentlemen, is a real fact as European subsidies, for example, have been spent in recent years. [[11.00 hours]] And if I stay on the subject of culture, I can imagine a really meaningful investment in culture. Let us support high-quality film projects with international interference, with the fact that in exchange for support, the state will retain its share of copyright and will have a stable income from them for decades. Let us also support musicians and artists and their promotion abroad. It will return to us again as part of the sale of their work abroad, but also in the promotion of the Czech Republic as a whole. Let us support massive reconstruction of cultural monuments. This will bring not only economic and employment support now during the crisis, but also tourism revenues in the future. Among other things, there is still a single built-up concentration camp with us, Oskar Schindler in Brno, Moravia, which became known worldwide for Steven Steven's Spielberg film. Unfortunately, I don't know anything about the Ministry of Culture's support for such meaningful matters. And this way, I could go on with the ministries. What investments make sense and what meaning they have and what this government is doing. We have the same complaints against government-designed and hot needle-sewn budget in other areas, such as the unclear provision of CZK 3.8 billion for some national programmes. The key really is what money is spent on. The general notion that it would be necessary to promote tourism is very broad, because there have been often private hotel subsidies, millionaires' private hotels and golf courses for friends of friends who are just for rich or completely unnecessary brochures that no one has ever read, and tourism hasn't really helped in any way. In the overall view, therefore, the problem with the proposed budget is that the government's priority is not to support decent and working people who need the greatest help right now. The government doesn't want to move the money to decent and working people. Rather, it will continue to pay tens of billions on doses that are inadaptable, for a messed-up inclusion in education, for subsidies to solar barons, for political nonprofits breaking up our society and spending, it will spend tens of billions on overpriced military purchases abroad, which can at least be postponed. The government simply does not agree with this approach of the SPD. I'll give you an example of the inclusion in education. As many of you know, the SPD has submitted a bill to abolish inclusion in education. Well, a few days ago, we received a reply with a government position, as the government was discussing our proposal at its meeting, not long ago. And they wrote to us on the grounds why they took a negative position on our proposal to abolish inclusion in education. It is said that this is against the EU, against what the EU is telling us. Because the inclusion in education, it's a project, it's an EU project, it's basically what the EU asked us to do. And, as we know, the inclusion in education was enforced in the previous term against the will of teachers, against the will of parents and healthy and disabled children by the government of the ANO, CSSD and KDU-ČSL movement. At that time she was Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová, who had fundamentally damaged the whole Czech education for a long time. And the argument that the government is taking a negative position on the SPD's proposal to abolish inclusion, because it is against the EU, which, on the contrary, has asked us to do so, is actually very appropriate. This means that the Czech Republic prefers to spend 6 billion a year on inclusion in an emergency, which is bad for everyone, schools, parents, school directors, teachers. And because we are simply at the EU Clinch, the government does not want to cancel because it compliments itself on the EU so that it does not get angry. And the fact that the quality of Czech education is falling and teachers are complaining can hardly be taught, so it doesn't really matter to anybody here. As long as the EU wants it! Moreover, looking at the government's budget, we have no idea for much of the money what and who will actually spend it on and what benefits they will be. The government is simply saying in general that the main objective of the deficit budget is to promote economic growth. Unfortunately, as is apparent from the multibillion-dollar expenditures that I have mentioned here, the reality is different. The general declaration is simply not enough. It's a really big debt, half a trillion crowns. That's an incredible amount that hasn't been here yet. And citizens just have a right to know why and what the government will spend their money on. And most importantly, the government doesn't really talk about it at all. How will he then repay the debt? The fact that the government isn't really talking about it means that the plan is that what it's going to give to companies and people now, it's going to take away from them in the years to come. This is, of course, not the most advantageous investment for citizens or businesses, but just a loan that is going to cost a lot. And the government's basically used to doing that in front of the citizens repeatedly. I'll remind you of the motion to cancel the property acquisition tax. This is the bill that was passed here last November by the SPD movement, half a year here, and now, in the context of the crisis, we are happy that the government adopted it and that the government has proposed it and that it has now gone into the final negotiations, but instead of abolishing the real estate tax, the government has deliberately copied the bill wrong from the SPD in quotation marks and added it to it that it also cancels the possibility of discounting interest on building savings and mortgages. This means they, on the one hand, the government will make people feel better when they buy the property, but the same money will be taken out of their pocket by the government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM by abolishing the possibility of deduction of interest on mortgages and building savings in that bill. This is unbelievable! And I really don't know if-- citizens just need to know that they're being played by an incredible game that the government is playing with. So that's exactly the way that, on one side, it's like something's gonna go, and on the other hand, it's gonna come out of the pocket of those citizens. I stress again, the SPD has submitted, and we have been discussing this with you for months now, even with the government, our savings package worth up to CZK 200 billion, I have already named it here, it would be enough to cross out these unnecessary items and we do not have to indebt the Czech Republic at all. So thank you for your attention and we will closely monitor the discussion of this draft budget by the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Vice-President Tomio Okamur. President Pekarová Adamová will now speak with priority, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a third proposal to amend the deficit of the Czech Republic, which the Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies for 2020. Let us remember that the original one, which was proposed for 40 billion crowns this year, was actually passé in a way before the coronation, because we already had a record-breaking deficit in February, it was already more than 27 billion, and this could not have been about the coronation in the Czech Republic. Then, by the end of April, we approved even 300 billion, 200 in the meantime. And now, after two months, there is once again a deficit that is already growing to the record 500 billion crowns. Let us remember that meeting two months ago, when Minister Schillerová explained that time was playing against us, that was when we approved the deficit almost from the eye, because - I quote: there was no time to discuss everything with the ministers. In the meantime, an amendment to the CNB Act was adopted, which, according to the government, was intended to help stabilise the national budget. And now, after two months, we are once again presented with a new deficit, this time increased by another CZK 200 billion. And the 200 billion crowns are presented here in the proposal briefly and their use on just six pages and just a few minutes in the opening speech of the Minister. The rapporteur did not bother to extend it any further. The decline in revenue is hardly justified, there are absolutely no macroeconomic forecasts missing, there are no hard data to convince us that this is not another unthought-out step by the government and that we will not renegotiate here over the summer or after the summer, this time the fifth draft budget for 2020. Clearly, there was no time for further explanations or analyses and forecasts even now after two months. And please, nicely, let us not keep hiding under the extraordinary circumstances, as the Minister has said in the opening statement. [[11.10 hours]] It is important to set the record straight here that we are discussing whether the Czech Republic should borrow another 200 billion. For the whole year, it will be a loan of CZK 500 billion that we borrow to deal with the consequences of the coronavirus crisis. And I'm sure we're not the only countries that are dealing with this situation. But it is appropriate to ask: Would it be a number this high if the coronavirus crisis had not been preceded by the six years of splintering and irresponsible budgetary policy that is owned by this government? Did the government do its best to prepare for the crisis years? And please, again, let's not argue that this is something that we could not have foreseen that no government was responsible for the virus. Because we all know how the economic cycle works and that, therefore, after years of prosperity, a crisis usually comes, no matter what. We have been drawing attention for years to the low readiness for this crisis, to the irresponsible waste of government, and to the warning, because the economic cycle is simply a predictable corona of the korona. The drop had to come and we could and should have been more prepared. So now the six-year-old party, where money flew through the air, when there was legal, but certainly immoral corruption of a part of the electorate, comes with sobering and with it the first account of this amount of 500 billion. An unprecedented deficit, then. But neither the YES movement nor the ČSSD will pay for it. It is paid for by children or by young people who are now in their lives, and by generations to come. And what's next? We have no prognosis on what the deficit will look like next year, 2022 and beyond. This government has exchanged the future of children and young people for various pre-election gifts that should have kept some policies in power, thus helping them to promote their own business, whether it was the way of various tax reliefs, public procurement manipulations, or the allocation of subsidies. And that is now making us worse at negotiating aid from the European Union again. Members of the European Parliament last Friday approved a clear majority of the critical resolution on the possible conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. We should stop using the word "maybe" because the conflict of interest is quite obvious. According to the resolution by Andrej Babiš, on the one hand, Agrofert is still in control and is his only beneficiary and, on the other hand, he participates as Prime Minister in making decisions on money from the European Union budget. At the same time, the resolution calls on the European Commission to have zero tolerance for conflicts of interest. The conclusion could be summed up very simply: either Andrej Babiš gives up Agrofert and influence on him or the seats in the government. Such a conclusion can be very problematic in the context of the up-to-date preparation of the European budget and negotiations on the European Recovery Fund, from which the European Commission wants to provide economies with a recovery from the Coronavirus crisis above the level of the normal Union budget of EUR 750 billion, respectively. over 20 trillion crowns. The distrust of the Czech Prime Minister thus impairs the position of the Czech Republic in negotiations. Let's face it. So we have an unprecedented debt to the state of 500 billion on the one hand, which is justified by the need to rescue the Czech economy from the Corona crisis, and on the other hand the 20 trillion-dollar European Recovery Fund, which is closing in on this conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš. I would like to ask, Madam Secretary, whether you are able to declare clearly that, even if you have pushed through and approved the breaking of the Bill on Rules of Budget Responsibility, the deficit will be acceptable next year, or will we see that you will also propose for 2021 and the years of the next hundred billion deficits? Four hundred billion will, of course, appear to be less of a deficit than we approve here these days. But if there are 400 billion or 300 billion in the coming years, we are really gambling. To say how great this is news to us because it's going to be lower than this year, I imagine we're going to be hearing from this counter here in the fall of this year. But I don't see any savings. Where are the savings within the proposed budget, so how are we discussing it here today? They really can't be found there because there aren't any. You don't find them either will or courage. TOP 09 certainly cannot support this astronomical deficit without proper justification and without any effort to save and investigate. We don't want this gamble. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will now speak with priority, Petr Fiala will prepare. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third amendment to the State Budget Act within six months, and with each proposal, the government's ability to tell us what the money required by the House is to approve what it needs, and it doesn't bother us at all to at least try to tell us what effectiveness of these expenses we can count on if we agree with them. The simple fact that we have government material on our desk is that the government is demanding to increase state budget spending by 137 billion. Crowns. The 200-billion-dollar increase in deficit consists of a projected 63-billion-dollar decline in revenue, which, of course, cannot be blamed on the government, which is due to economic development, but the government is actively asking us to allow an increase in expenditure by 137 billion. CZK without being able to specify what, because it proposes all the money in government material to the government's budget reserve. In other words, the government says to the Chamber of Deputies, let us spend 137 billion. more and we'll deal with them somehow depending on how we decide, we'll make decisions without you. I've never seen that before. In the 30 years that I have devoted myself to public budgets, I have not experienced such a thing, and no honourable Member could raise his hand for it, because he would resign from his duty, with which the taxpayers of the Members will decide where to really and why and with what effectiveness the individual items will go. Interestingly, more than a week ago, we had a video conference with the Minister of Finance, and she said on such hovering reservations: we're in a situation where I just can't specify it, I can't do it, I can't. And many of us said, if you can't specify it, you can't ask the House to approve it, Madam Secretary. So all of a sudden, after 18 hours since the Minister of Finance said she couldn't do it, Mr Babiš's amendment, which is another curiosity in the history of state budgets, came the amendment of Mr Babiš, who is attempting to make this specification and is writing it down in a total of seven chapters of the state budget. So my logical question I have raised is that the Minister has not yet answered it: when did she lie to the Members? If on Monday, she said she couldn't do it, or on Tuesday, when he arrived by the Ministry of Finance, a prepared amendment to Mr Babiš. I therefore believe that she lied to us both on Monday and Tuesday, because neither is the specification, so-called Mr Babiš, nor is there any specification. [[11.20 hours]] In addition to some of the undisputed items - such as: last week's mandatorial expenditure, compensation to the municipalities of 12.8 billion, that's logical - there are items under which we do not know what to imagine. And these are astronomical items, in the amount of tens of billions. For example, 10 billion. This is explained by the fact that it is not yet decided specific aid to the economic sectors which are significantly affected by the consequences of the epidemic, etc. The government is going to decide how to use these funds, it's going to build a program, but now it's asking us to do 10 billion, and we don't have the slightest idea what we're going to put them on. What kind of program is this? I would recommend to Minister Havlíček that he call the program Covid-Wedding. 'Cause whoever was at the wedding at čapí's Nest and they said, they're probably gonna get it. Whoever wasn't at the Cap's nest isn't gonna get it, and it's not gonna be bad luck. If Minister Havlíček or Secretary Schillerová or the Prime Minister want to say that I'm making it up now that it's not true, then let them deny it by telling me what they're doing with the 10 billion. will be used. If anyone is a friend of foreign names, I recommend the name of the Covid-Janchushi program. Decrypt like Jančura Chimana. We just really want to sign a $10 billion check to the government. promoting business, where we have no idea on the basis of what criteria, on the basis of which efficiency she will provide the funds!? From the crisis it may be possible to invest, but from the crisis it is not possible to subsidize with subsidies to friends. These are two very different concepts. I don't really understand how I'm supposed to explain 10 billion. for any further support from organisations financed by the State budget. The government will decide, but we're supposed to approve them today. What am I supposed to imagine under this? That we'll add the Football Association so that it can carry policies YES and ČSSD on expensive trips? Or that we will add comrade colonel Vodička because the communists will support the state budget? I don't know! Does anyone know? Maybe the government doesn't even know at this point, but it's asking for the money today! It is simply our duty not to give them to her and to give them to her only if she can be absolutely clear and credible about what she will use them for! It's exactly the same with the government's budget reserve of 36 billion. To raise 137 billion. expenditure, which is a huge number, but it's 36 billion. The government's budget reserves are a crazy number! If the government had said if the government had asked for 5 billion, so that I wouldn't eat, 10 billion, I would still have some understanding. But 36 billion. Bianca check? This may have been tolerated in the first days of the crisis, when we really had no idea what decisions the government would be able to make, and we needed it to be operational in days and in hours. Well, we're four months out of a state of emergency, and there's no excessive ambition at this point in time to ask the government for an economic strategy. And the ability to tell us what he's gonna use the money for. He says, "Here, give us 36 billion we have no idea what we're going to use them for, but we certainly know we need them! You do realize we don't have the right to approve of something like this? And if we do that, we'll just resign from our duties, with which the taxpayer sent us here? And then there's the absolute spicy stuff that doesn't have anything to do with the covid. Social expenses of the Ministry of the Interior - it has nothing to do with it, severance payments - have nothing to do with the covid. Seven billion in bark - it has nothing to do with covid. The kůrovec was here last year and the year before. And when the government was doing the state budget for 2019, that's the priority that the government should be counting on. If the priority is updated, it should be updated on the basis, at the expense of other state budget priorities approved in 2019. It's absolutely incredible arrogance! And now I'm turning to all government politicians who somehow do business or have their friends among businessmen. All of them, of course, in different ways throughout the economy as they were affected, but since the whole economy is beginning to be affected, they are all going with their operating costs to the marrow. Everybody saves. Mr. Juříček, a government MP, a big businessman, told me: With fixed costs I had to go down by tens of percent. We can't even buy toilet paper. Yes, I believe him. In this situation, we really are all companies whose taxes we live on. But the government, they live like there's no crisis! These draw on their budgets approved in December 2019 without attempting to make a single crown of savings, including hundreds of thousands of rewards. It doesn't concern us, we're the government authorities, let them save themselves in the economy! Do you realize how distant this is from life? How awful is that arrogance? From a government that is aware of this, it tells us in its explanatory report, in what difficult situation are economic operators, and how arrogantly does it refuse to save even one crown on its own offices? How arrogant is he refusing to stop paying hundreds of thousands of officials their wages? If you tried to at least make a symbolic savings on operating expenses, I could look at the proposal with a little bit more sympathy. But you don't have the slightest effort, not even the crown. And I assure you, I would have found 30 billion there by lunch, in the current draft state budget of 2019. Let me ask you a rhetorical question. What did we set up the National Budget Council law for? Do you know the National Budget Board's position? Do you know its position that this proposal is premature, hasty, inefficient, that it is not based on the macroeconomic framework, that it is not the least certainty about the efficiency of expenditure that you want to increase the expenditure in force? That you haven't even tried to evaluate the efficiency of the existing expenditures! And in spite of this opinion of the National Budget Board, the Secretary will make the most of the President, Professor Zamrazilová, that she has no professional basis for this. She's got the expertise and the expertise! You don't have a professional basis, you who can't even tell us what you want the money for! And you set up the National Budget Board just so that if it doesn't nod at all, you wouldn't listen to it. And it's not just the National Budget Council, ladies and gentlemen. Find me one single expert in the professional public who deals with public budgets and economic policy, who would say that this proposal makes sense and has a chance to lead us out of the crisis! I don't know any. I've only read absolutely critical articles that I've identified with, because this proposal has a minimal chance of getting us out of the crisis, but it has a huge chance of getting us into a debt trap. It's not like we can't afford a half-billion dollar this year. deficit, we can, but it would be important that these expenditures are actually directed towards the most effective measures. But most importantly, so huge deficits don't occur in the next few years! And I'm afraid you're pushing so hard to say 500 before the holidays, because after the holidays, you mean 2021 - 400, 2022 - 300, and look, we're reducing the deficit. It's going to look like a declining trajectory on the graph, but it's really going to be a way to break up public budgets. [[11.30 hours]] We cannot afford hundreds of billions of deficits in the coming years in terms of long-term sustainability. Although we have an exceptionally good position in terms of the overall level of debt, we are doing very well there, but we have an exceptionally poor position in terms of long-term sustainability. That's where we're at the worst neighborhood in Europe. The Minister may not stress this so often, but it is true. There we are the fourth worst in Europe, because we are going to have a huge demographic breakthrough in 2030, and if we get this huge demographic break out by hundreds of billions of deficits in the next seven years, I just feel sorry for those kids today. I'm gonna be 70, retired, so I'm not gonna take any retirement, but those kids are gonna have to deal with it somehow. And I really don't know how in this policy. So I insist on what I said in the beginning. The proposal is unwarranted, it's irresponsible, and it doesn't have one single effort to convince us of the effectiveness of the expenses. In that case, I believe that we have no right to approve such a thing to the government. And I understand that the government is in a situation where the government's budget reserves are 100 million. and there are some expenditures in front of it that it is able to specify, but there are not so many, and it did not attempt to make a single savings in operational expenditures approved from 2019, and there is therefore a huge reserve. So I believe that with a calm conscience it is possible to vote in favour of an amendment to the law, where expenditure is not increased by 137 billion, but by 80 billion. less. For this reason, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution - and I am now, please, taking a turn. I respect the position of the legislative department, which says that we are not acting under the special chapter of the Rules of Procedure on the state budget, but that we are discussing this as a standard law. However, allow me to respect the tradition in the motion for a resolution and also to formulate recommendations in the proposal to return to the Government, which means I propose to return to the Government the proposal for an amendment to the State Budget Act with the following recommendation: Expenditure to cut by 80 billion, balance to cut by 80 billion, revenue to keep the proposed amount, proposal to supplement the macroeconomic framework, twenty days. In the case - this is a classic proposal in the state budget - that, given the opinion of the legislative department, the rapporteur would find this proposal unvoted, in which case I am giving an alternative, ordinary proposal for a re-evaluation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u11	Have a nice day. I have noted your proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion... [[Messenger. Rough: Overworked.]] Rework. [[With a recommendation...]] Yes, with a recommendation, we are going to evaluate this here if, because at this stage, the resolution is not voted on, but it can certainly be read in some way within the scope of your proposal. Now I'll read the apology. Mrs Helena Válková apologises between 11.00 and 13.00 for reasons of work. And now the Vice-President of the House, Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala, will be prepared by Mr Lukáš Černohorský, who is responsible for presenting the opinion of the MP... excuse me, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, but once again signed by Mr Lukáš Černohorský, the first Vice-President of the Pirates, who is responsible for presenting the opinion of the MP. Mr. Vice-President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I would not surprise you if I first announced that the ODS will not support this proposal to increase the deficit of this year's state budget to CZK 500 billion. My colleagues will then explain in detail in the debate why this government proposal is not a good idea. I'm going to start with three messages here. The first message is to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, the state budget - and you know that, even if you look differently sometimes - is not your money, it is not the government's money. It is the money of all citizens and every deficit crown, every deficit crown is a debt that people in this country will have to pay back. And while at the beginning of this year the debt of every citizen of the Czech Republic was CZK 153,500, if we had approved your government's proposed deficit of 500 billion, each citizen's debt would have increased to CZK 198 300, including seniors and small children. So the debt of every citizen from 153 thousand to 198 thousand is just this decision. I want to say to taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen, what the government has put forward today - it is not a rescue package, it is not a recovery package, it is not an investment package or something like that. It's mainly evidence of cluelessness. And talking about investing in prosperity is just a media trick in this government's case. It's just a phrase. Yes, we, the citizens of the Democrats, believe it, believe that people are to be helped, that the government is to deliver money to them. And better yet, he's supposed to let them have the money, that he's supposed to let them have the money by simplifying bureaucracy, reducing taxes, the recipes we're putting forward. And direct and indirect aid is supposed to be targeted, transparent and thoughtful. And that's not the case with this government. This government makes it chaotic and clientetically. The third message goes to the Chamber of Deputies. It's more of a challenge to you, colleagues and colleagues. Let's not continue with the coronavirus crisis where we ended up before it. Let us not support government helplessness and demand proper work for the government. And by that I mean at least to keep her promises, her commitments she made. That is why, in the end, I will offer a five-point plan on how we can do this and how we can bring the government to this. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has been in the media here since last week, acting like some little baby Ježíšek who's brought the gift and wants to give it away, the presents, the citizens, and it's some bad, bad opposition, stupid one who wants to take the presents away from the citizens. The Prime Minister here is trying to make citizens, forgive me for saying that, fools, because everyone knows that everyone knows that the government has a majority in this Chamber of Deputies. The government of YES, CSSD and KSČM here has a majority of 107 votes out of 200, so the opposition simply cannot stop him from giving it away. That's not true, that's a lie. And if the Prime Minister doesn't have the support, then it's not the opposition's fault, so let him tell the public and negotiate about some other government, but blame the opposition for his own mistakes, his own cluelessness, making public fools, I think it's at least rude. But what's most important, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, is that you're going to burden 500 billion debt here maybe even one whole next generation. Not one of those crowns of debt you're gonna make is from the government. And according to that, please treat the crowns. Every single crown, every single crown that we write here today as deficit, will have to be paid back by the people of this country in the future. And they'll pay it back with interest. That's what we should be thinking about today. [[11.40 hours]] Dear citizens of the Czech Republic, what the government has presented today, as I have already said, is not a bailout package, it is not an investment package, it is not a recovery package. Maybe it's like an election trick. Let's get this straight, this coronavirus crisis has been used by the government on one thing, and maybe the right word would be abused. The government is using this crisis to resolve its inability to manage, and these demands for ever-increasing deficits are proof of this. Before the start of the crisis, it was clear that the government was getting into trouble in this area. After all, the February budget deficit was the worst in the history of the Czech Republic. Under normal circumstances, people, and, of course, in the nearest election, would be holding the government accountable for not being able to manage in an unprecedented period of economic growth. But now we hear: 100 billion up, that's no problem, and no one here is dealing with what's going to happen in the future. Instead of having to answer the questions today - why it wasted economic growth, the economic growth, where the promised balanced budget is, this government promised budget, where the promised abolition of the supergross wage is, this government promised abolition of the supergross wage, where less bureaucracy is, this government promised less bureaucracy, where the state is functioning, where, for example, the progress on the world's competitiveness ranking, and so on - instead it comes here, it is a coronavirus crisis, one month the deficit is 200 billion, another month we will raise it by 300 billion, another month by 500 billion and so on. Before the coronavirus crisis, I hope they were wondering what they were going to do with the growing deficit. And the growing deficit would have reached CZK 40 billion per year in April by now without the pandemic, so to speak. That was the budget before the coronavirus crisis. So I hope that they were wondering what they were going to do about it, and even what they were going to buy votes for in the autumn and next year before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, because during economic growth, and that has to be said, because it has consequences on what we are dealing with today, the government has even dissolved all reserves. She didn't just collect anything, but she was actually able to dissolve all the reserves. And today, they want to keep tens of billions of taxpayers' money on the sidelines, deposited without determination, like some kind of gift that the Prime Minister will probably be riding around the Republic with and handing out, like it's his money. And investment - there's always talk of investment, how we invest somewhere and so on. Maybe somewhere they'll somehow fix something that didn't work out the time for which there was no money, there was no time for it, and there was no money in those seven years of the coalition's government, in those seven years of continuous economic growth, because there was more and more spending on the operation of an increasingly growing state, there was a state apparatus, there were various complex instruments, such as EETs, like control reports, I don't need to remind you - so there wasn't really much money left for those investments. I really don't believe that it's better now that now they suddenly know where they're going to invest and that they can actually make investments. Let me give you an example of why I don't think so and why I have no reason to think so now. I've been to Teplice in the past few days, where Andrej Babiš promised hundreds of millions to repair the train station years ago. What's it look like? So far, nothing has happened. No hundreds of millions have come. I was in the Liberec Region, where the government promised hundreds of millions to repair the jumping area in Harrachov, and still nothing came. I was in the Karlovy Vary Region, where the government promised four winter stadiums that no one wanted there. And so it is with a number of investments and so it is with this deficit. The government wants to spend money where there's no need, and it doesn't put it where it's necessary. And please respond nicely: we are to really believe that after these poor performances in transport investment, when four kilometers of highways per year were built here, that after these poor performances over long years, the government will suddenly be able to invest 20 billion crowns that have not been planned, which will now be taken, and will the government invest them by the end of the year? It's nonsense. So, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, propose and approve the 500-billion-dollar budget deficit is premature, excessive and unfounded. Premature, excessive and unfounded. And, please, that's not opposition rhetoric, I'm signing those words. And they're not mine, I honestly admit it, this is a quote from the National Budget Council's statement. And my message to the citizens is: if, ladies and gentlemen, you do not believe the opposition, it is, of course, possible, we each have different political preference, so please listen to experts and not government propaganda. The government wants to put on your neck debts that renowned economists on the National Budget Board say are premature, excessive and unfounded. My third message is rather a challenge not to continue where we left off after the Corona crisis. And I'll tell you a few facts. As part of the evaluation of the level of digitization of the economy and society, the Czech Republic is in 20 places from 28 countries of the European Union. In the assessment of the competitiveness of the countries, the Czech Republic placed in 32nd place last year and took three downs. According to the partial performance indicator of the public sector, the Czech Republic has taken 99th place from the monitored countries and is the third worst of the European Union countries. Again, it is the performance of the public sector. Between 2014 and 2018, the number of civil servants increased by 23,4 thousand. And we're gonna hear that these are the people that are needed, that they're not bureaucrats. But we've had special officials here since 2013, from the first government of YES and ČSSD, about 15,000 more. Last year the state managed with the highest deficit since 2016 and increased revenue from the state was essentially consumed for current expenditure. Increased revenue from the state, i.e. what people earn because they work because they do business, they do it in taxes, the state used up ordinary expenses. In the long term, unsustainable interim payments of the pension system and social benefits are available. The problem is also the long-term complexity and complexity of the tax system. And so I could go on. And what I was saying here, dear colleagues, I didn't make that up, I didn't even have to look for it. This is highlighted by the analysis of the Supreme Audit Office in the report of March this year. And I'm just reminding some of her stuff here. The report warns us, among other things, that none of what I've been talking about will solve deficits, deficits will buy anything out, we won't even invest anywhere out of these problems. We have to deal with these problems differently. No one, therefore, should support half a trillion extra, with large white places, black holes, without guaranteeing that the government will save, based on how it has succeeded here before, in the state under the leadership of this government coalition, as this government coalition miserably did before the Coronavirus crisis. And it will save not on people, but on the state. That the government really knows what it's doing and that the debt money will actually be used for people to deal with the economic consequences of coronavirus. [[11.50 hours]] I therefore, honourable Members, propose this to you. I propose five points that we should proceed with. One. Do not encourage an increase in the deficit because the government has not submitted a detailed plan for what it wants to do by the end of the parliamentary term. The half-půlbiliónový deficit rewrites everything. And the world after the coronavirus crisis is a different reality than that in which the government has been given the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies for its government program. And the government program needs to be modified. Two. Let us commit by resolution the Government to submit an audit of the state's expenditure. Audit of expenditure of the State. The state is too big. It's a good point that we're not going to get out of the crisis. I agree with that. But there is a solution. Let's save on the state and not save on the people. Three. Let's tie up the government to finally put forward a motion to abolish a super-gross wage. It's not just our program. It's also a government program. For him, ladies and gentlemen of the ANO movement, from ČSSD and from KSČM, you voted. And it's time to make it happen. We'll help you. Cancellation of a supergross wage means that a person with an average wage will have CZK 1,700 in his account every month, which is CZK 20,000 per year. And people will know that. And they're gonna know right now when a lot of them are gonna be in economic trouble. Four. Let us tie up the government to put forward a red tape reduction plan - 10 percent this year, 10 percent next year. I'm not making up a new one again. The 10 percent - let me just remind you - is a literal promise of government officials at the beginning of last year. I repeat: let's save on the state, let's not spare on the people. And five. Let us bind the government to present the concept of pension reform and overall tax and levy reforms. That's what they always say about making it easier. So let's simplify it. Let us commit the government to presenting such a proposal for simplification and reduction of taxes that will support small and medium-sized enterprises. And that really helps people. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we would all fail if the result of this House's negotiations was to increase the deficit from 300 billion to 500 billion crowns. I believe that the three months when the economy was shut down have not changed the fact that we are already lagging behind in important sectors before the Coronavirus crisis, as the Supreme Audit Office pointed out. Now we can talk about whether 200 billion is enough or 300 billion debt is needed, i.e. deficit. We can talk about that. But we have to talk about the fact that half a trillion deficits are premature, excessive, and unfounded. And it's even worse that it's money for people and companies, money that they're going to have to make someday in the future and they're going to have to pay it back. Ladies and gentlemen, even if we take not half a trillion from the future, but a trillion, we will not put the Czech Republic on its feet in this way. And that's why we have to want the government, we have to want more from the government than what the government has shown so far. Now's an opportunity. And now it's our duty as well. But to let the state continue to grow, to let bureaucracy grow, to bind all checks, to complicated high taxes, to indebt all people to a generation in advance, that is no solution. That's no solution. Let us not approve of this astronomical deficit, which is unprecedented in history, but let us force the government to take steps that will really help our economy and people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u13	I thank Prime Minister Petr Fial. And I have a factual comment by Mrs Věra Adámková. That was a mistake. Okay. In that case, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík shall give a priority right to present the opinion of the MP. You have your word. A colleague of Mr. Vít Rakušan will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, we, as pirát, realize that our country is in an unprecedented situation, there is a huge decline in economic growth, and that the manufacturing industry, our export machine, is running out of external causes, that the car industry had huge declines in April, and it does not look good all year round, and for these reasons it is appropriate to take forceful measures from the government. So the government has taken such a forceful action. Unfortunately, the first try turned out to be more of a bad joke. We got a budget on the table, where there was 137 billion spending increases, and there was no way to specify what the money was supposed to go to. This, of course, has aroused considerable indignation in the ranks of the opposition, but also in the ranks of citizens who say the government wants 500 billion crowns here - and what is this supposed to go on? We haven't gotten any government help yet. Where's the money going? These were a number of questions that I received either on a parliamentary e-mail or through social networks. And those questions are, of course, justified. In response to the strong rejection of this government procedure, the government has made quite a substantial concession. The CZK 100 billion from the 137 she put into budget chapters. That means, we know 20 billion to go to road repairs. We know which subsidy programs are to be strengthened, what is to be realized for the money. There are two chapters left, which are not yet fully specified, that is, let's say, general business support for 10 billion and general public sector support for another 10 billion. But with the exception of these two major chapters, indeed, roughly CZK 80 billion has been distributed in a way that gives some idea of how the government is going to deal with the funds. And this concession on our part, too, has led us to be willing to enter into negotiations on what conditions we can find an agreement on any possible support for this budget to address the greatest economic crisis our country has been going through since 1990. What were our priorities in this meeting? Firstly, we want the groups that the government has forgotten to receive support. Probably the most visible of these groups today are people who worked on agreements to carry out work or work activities and have not received any support at all, except a completely marginal infirmary, and that was still a great struggle in the House. And these people, who paid social security properly, paid quite significant tax money, were left aside, even if they were working on a business license at the same time, they still lost the compensation bonus. This is what we consider to be a great injustice. And that's the thing we're trying to change. I hope the Minister will keep his promise and help these people. Another large group of people, who are completely unfairly left without support, are businessmen who have had a small-time job. This, again, is a large group of people who, unfortunately, we think were very unfairly excluded from the state aid. The next group are persons without taxable income. These are people who may not be entitled to unemployment benefits for some reason. And while the self-employed were given forgiven contributions, they did not receive the forgiven contributions. I could go on. In any event, our first negotiating priority was that the people who were forgotten by the State should be supported by analogy with all the other groups receiving the aid. Both employees and businessmen had state support programmes. The second was to address measures that have a chance to prevent another wave of disease, possibly to mitigate its effects both health and epidemiological. First of all, we are talking about the state using the time we gained in the summer by freezing the economy, to build an infrastructure for surface testing, so that if the situation gets worse, we can test, like, 30,000 people a day. [[12.00 hours]] It works great in South Korea. Indeed, they effectively eliminated the disease through massive testing and did not have to shut down the economy. In our opinion, this is the cheapest measure to be taken to mitigate the economic impact. I was a little dismayed when Mr. Prymula said that the state couldn't afford two billion for a full-scale test, that would be including the tests, now all we're talking about is the preparation of the infrastructure. But these two billion, even if it costs up to that much, can prevent economic damage in the tens to hundreds of billions of crowns that we experienced in March, April and May. So that's the crucial thing for us to do. It is also necessary to prepare support for online teaching in case there is a need to close schools again. It is necessary that pupils who do not have an online learning facility can borrow it from school and therefore normally participate in teaching, because otherwise tens of thousands of children will be left completely out of the educational system, which will lead to huge losses for the future and a terrible deterioration in the perspective of these children. We also want the necessary investment to improve the functioning of the state to take place. One project for all - we want work to accelerate the unification of tax collection, social insurance and health insurance. This would reduce bureaucracy, which would lead to savings in the operation of the state. We think right now is a good time to invest in such a project, analytical firms have more capacity. And we think it is possible to speed up this project so that the number of officials who make these duplicate agendas can really be reduced over time. At the same time, we think that in the case of such economic losses that the whole country is suffering, it is appropriate for the state to look for savings in its operation. We can talk about how he'll then put the savings into corporate and human support. Madam Secretary repeatedly says - but look, the opposition wanted even more spending... Yes, we wanted the cursarbeit and the remission of social contributions to cover a larger number of companies, not just those up to 50 employees, because we see injustice there. Mr Bláha is looking at me here, yes, he was the only member of the YES who advocated it, too, because it really is unfair for a company with 51 employees to have diametrically different conditions than a company with 50 employees. We wanted to expand the support, and I think money can be taken from savings on the operation of the state. I'm gonna take one big theme of the last few days, and that's the PR services that the ministry pays for, and we think there's an opportunity in this crisis to save money. There's certainly no reason to spend more on PR than before the crisis, as it appeared in the press today. We also reject some VIP support for individual Smartwings companies that have part of the owners in tax havens. Another requirement we had in the state budget negotiations was transparency on the management of the government's budget reserve and transparency on the beneficiaries of state subsidies. We believe that all beneficiaries of the subsidy are to be made public. We proposed an amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act. We also think that the real owner of these companies should be known. And then, because, of course, budget support also has a share of responsibility for the government's process of resolving the crisis, we have proposed measures that would have a great impact on how we, as countries, will cope with the crisis. That is why we have advocated the reform of executions and the introduction of the territoriality of executors. We think that right now there is a risk that the problem of executions will grow rapidly, and we need to make a fat line behind the unfortunate past and really set up a new system significantly better. Similarly, we think that our country and its future are linked to education, and that is why we want to make a clear commitment in times of crisis that teachers' salaries will long-term valorise with the increase in average wages, that they will remain on the 130 percent average wage as promised by the government, even in the future, so that students will be motivated to embark on a teacher's path to improve the quality of the education system in our country. These were the things we were trying to negotiate. Finally, we have found an agreement to support discussions in the House, to support the shortening of deadlines, to allow the government to vote the budget before Parliament's holidays. On the other hand, since the government is not going to save, given that we think the revenue side of the budget needs to be quite optimistic, we are not sure if the budget will meet its expectations at all, we are not sure if we will be able to invest the money, so for these reasons we will not support the budget as a whole. And I can only hope, in conclusion, that the Minister will keep what she has promised, and will actually propose at least a compensatory bonus for the negotiators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. President Vít Rakušan will now speak with priority right, President Jan Bartošek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, the government is coming to us with a proposal for a half-billion-dollar deficit. The 40 billion was the original planned deficit, 213 billion, which is an estimate of the decline in revenue, 237 billion are supposed to be money that will lead to the healing of the Czech economy, which is ill as a result of the coronation. It came out pretty round, it's exactly 500 billion. And maybe we're asking a little provocatively why not 450, why not 478, why not 507. And maybe that's the thing that's the moment that's the worst thing about the budget from the start. The budget has no exact parameters. The budget tells us that tax revenue will fall by 63 billion, but we no longer know, at least we ordinary Members without any information exclusivity, what tax revenue is involved. The government does not tell us what the structure of the decline in tax revenues that will now affect the Czech Republic is. The government has broken down a budget reserve of CZK 137 billion into individual chapters very roughly, without any broader discussion with individual ministers, and we say - without any more serious internal logic. These are CZK 137 billion, which we now have no precise idea of when approving the budget, where the effect of the Czech economy will be, what the measurable effect of these expenditures will be, what the expected impact of these expenditures will be for our sick economy. Completely missing analysis - impact analysis, but completely missing analysis of existing stabilization measures, their effectiveness, their reflection in the Czech economy. And, of course, some programs raise doubts. On 12 June, according to official COVID III data, the literally ridiculous 17 million crowns were exhausted. We're asking where the budget costs are going and who they're supposed to help. We have been saying from the beginning of the crisis that aid should be rapid, aid should be effective, aid should be targeted. We are to provide liquidity for a long-term useful, virtually. viable companies, especially those small and medium-sized, and not large holding companies that are controlled by oligarchs, not companies that are in Chinese hands and in the hands of people with a very complex property structure such as. Smartwings. [[12.10 hours]] We ask: is money really intended in this draft budget to help our economy really? This means the expansion of small and medium-sized viable companies and, at the same time, the expansion of the local economy of cities and municipalities. Okay. Madam Secretary will tell me that we finally managed to push through, after a lot of pressure. And remember those debates when the Prime Minister here told me that I was only a lobbyist for cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. In the end, the government has agreed to this, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček himself puts it as an important stimulus for our economy, to support cities and municipalities. But it's a bit forgotten on the edge. And let me get one more number to the edges. In this situation, the regions claimed the losses associated with the coronation, calculating them to an amount greater than CZK 3 billion. According to the proposal with which the Ministry of Finance came, compensation for each individual region will be CZK 10 million. Absolutely inadequate amount. And what will result? Well, it'll just lead to the government contradicting each other. He says we're gonna invest out of the crisis. We cannot invest from the crisis unless the local spheres, cities, municipalities and regions in the Czech Republic have sufficient funds for investment. And how are we going to invest? Where do we find this in the budget, please? What are the investment projects with which the government is coming? The structural projects that will move the Czech Republic forward? Investment in high-speed rail so that German railways do not have to drive around the Czech Republic on their way to Vienna because it does not pay to drive here. Where are the investments in digitalization, in the environment, in modern government? Can we find this anywhere in the draft budget that the government is presenting as an anti-crisis, which the government is presenting as a pro-investment? Why doesn't the government instead of its imaginary investment plan, which is just a project magazine, just choose those regional, urban, municipal projects, but also the state, for which a building permit is already issued and have some multiplier effect in the area? They're simply going to help the economy. Do not say that we will invest from the crisis, if you have no concrete investment plan prepared, no specific investment projects that will bring some effect to our country. Perhaps at this point, Madam Secretary, it is not the very amount of the deficit - and here I would agree with you that the time is truly unprecedented and we have come to a situation where the half-millionth awful amount would perhaps be acceptable under certain circumstances - but if you put forward a budget that would make some sense. He relied on the analysis and looked to the future to provide the Czech Republic with some perspective. And that's just not what the budget does. We as Mayors and Independents will have amendments to this budget. Yes, we have our ideas of what it should contain. But we're saying ahead, it's not a gift that we can raise our hand for. We would raise our hand for such a deficit budget at a time when the budget would be the budget of the future, the budget of real investment and the budget of the vision of the modern and successful Czech Republic after the coronation. And that's not the ambition of this budget. It is also intended to spend ambition in chapters that are clearly unrelated to the start-up of the economy. He doesn't have the ambition to save himself, that's for operating expenses. And unfortunately, the ambition is not to come up with investment and such a logic of the budget that will lead the Czech Republic into the 21st century and not to stagnation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. President Jan Bartošek will now appear and prepare Mr Václav Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The documents submitted by the government to discuss the government's deficit are completely inadequate. Given that we are not acting in a legislative emergency, but in sound reading, and perhaps proposals will be made to shorten the time limit for this proposal, I can say that we will want the negotiations to be reduced to ten days. I'll explain why. If you want to talk about the state budget deficit, you must have relevant numbers at your disposal. These will be known only in July, when we will know what the results of the state's management in the first half of the year or the second quarter look like, when it will be clear how the revenue of the state fell, how the current deficit is drawn, and on the basis of these figures you can only plan any further debt to the State. Without these numbers it is only in the level of wishful thinking and how much the state should roughly need and spend. Come in. The crucial thing is that when we talk about this year's budget deficit, we need to know what the budgets of the year will look like next and next. That means we need to know some budgetary perspective that can be modeled. I dealt with the secretary, she told me she couldn't. I say that there are mathematical models based on which one can model how the budgetary outlook should look. This means, I would expect, and I want the government to put forward a pessimistic, realistic and optimistic budgetary outlook and to introduce us to a plan of how it considers public finances to be and under what circumstances. Personally, I regret that this government is not cooperating and does not have a technical discussion on how to proceed to the state budget, such as the National Budget Council or the Koronerv, where relevant information can be available, relevant procedures, but unfortunately it turns out that this government does not want a professional and competent discussion. For KDU-ČSL it is difficult to talk about any support for the state budget without these documents. On the other hand, if you ask what KDU-ČSL priorities are, we repeatedly say that in the Czech Republic, as a result of the effects of this crisis, there are many families that are very difficult to manage. There are already over 30 percent of families with children in the Czech Republic, for which one-off expenditure of 10,000 or more means a social threat. When you think about it in practice, buying a new refrigerator or washing machine is almost vanquishing for them. And these parents are waiting for the beginning of the school year. Everyone who has children and little children, so we know that the beginning of the school year is always economically challenging, whether it concerns: new shoes, clothing, school supplies, boarding school, dorm and so on. That is why we want to make a one-off contribution to working parents, and I say that again, to children with working parents, in August, before the school year begins, so that over 30 percent of families are not thrown into social distress. Second thing. The budget clearly needs to remember investment, where we see an absolutely crucial investment in the construction of apartments, municipal flats. Apartments that will be offered to people for lower rents than commercial rents and allow young families with children to start their lives, start a family or seniors. This means that we want the State to simplify the rules for the drawing of funds for affordable housing to simplify these rules, to further change the ratio of money so that 80 per cent is paid by the State and 20 per cent is paid by the municipality. And to finally start building. Because, on the one hand, it will be money and work for local businesses and, at the same time, it will be helpful to young families with children and young families to have a place to live, because housing is one of the key factors that often prevents people from starting families. If the state comes with such a large deficit, it should also come up with a proposal for a reform of public finances, state savings, as well as a reform of the pension system. There's no such thing. And it's only about borrowing and spending, but this government doesn't want to reform. This means that without reforms, it is not possible to move our Czech Republic forward. Unfortunately, given that the government is not coming up with systemic changes, this budget is heading towards a budget Eldorado rather than clearly defining what the priorities of the state are. These priorities of the State, investment priorities, would also be good to be heard in the context of the budgetary perspective. [[12.20 hours]] Just a footnote, it's not possible to propose a state budget deficit, have tens of billions there, and say that we don't actually know where they're going yet. Don't be mad at me. No one's gonna be able to do this at home. Which one of you used to borrow on a mortgage, for example, they always ask you how much income you have, how long you're gonna pay it off, how you're gonna invest it. There's no way the state could have behaved differently than we or anyone who's going to borrow money at that point. Given that this proposal contains a number of shortcomings, I am making a proposal from the KDU-ČSL to revise this draft state budget deficit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, who is enrolled in the general debate, will now speak, Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, Madam Secretary. I will be next in line to propose this amendment to the State Budget Act for the revision of the Tricolore movement. These are the reasons that lead us to this. This is not an amendment to the draft state budget, it is not a reaction to the economic development, very dramatic which we are experiencing. It's pure information about a growing debt. And we think it's short and well short. A lot of colleagues here told me that at 4:00 a.m. this morning they were driving down the highway to attend the meeting. Then it began with a delay at 10.30 and the only thing we know is that it is now 500 billion, after the holidays it will be 700, but there is not the slightest effort to save in state spending, however much to respond to the current situation. It's often operated on here by 500 billion. is a big number. It is, thanks to the government, so big that no one can imagine it. My colleagues have calculated that if it were in thousands of crowns, we will double-wrap the entire globe with that money, how much is 500 billion, to be exact, it is 1.996 times so that the demagog.cz doesn't cancel my Facebook account that I'm spreading fake news. More importantly, it is one third of the entire state budget, and that, in my opinion, is extremely warning. And I don't really share your policy, Madam Secretary, that it's okay that we can't cross ourselves out, I don't know what, and I'm gonna just throw it out for you. Unless it's okay that it's 500 billion. deficit, so why wouldn't you mind 1,000 billion? or 3,000 billion.? Why do you even collect taxes if it's okay if you print and borrow money? So let's cancel taxes, increase all state budget spending twice, and we have 3,000 billion, which is not so much different from the 500. Or does it matter? And it's not the fact that our children and grandchildren are going to pay, but you're attacking our depositors in particular, in the middle class. We need to be clear about this. From a deficit of 500 billion. so far, the minimum has returned to citizens, businessmen and entrepreneurs. As of June 8, it was, I think, 43 billion that they got back in those relatively unsuccessful events COVID I, II, III, IV, I don't know how many. So it's pure government spending. In my view, it is necessary to approach the budget strategically differently, because for several years here you have managed our prosperity, which is not made by bureaucrats or governments, with all due respect, but by companies and citizens who work, care for their families and do something. You guys took their taxes and ate it when I said it rough. If I say it politely, you bribed various electoral groups, but this party is now over because of the contribution of the epidemic. This has been unsustainable for a long time. Every family, when they find themselves in such a dramatic situation as the Czech Republic, with many tens of percent of the decline in industrial production, etc., must react somehow. They must set out the expenditure that is necessary, e.g. Daddy drives a car to work in the morning, so he's got to have that thousand-pound gas machine that month, but instead of five beers, they're gonna have two beers, they're gonna put something away, they're just gonna start saving up. This is how every normal family behaves in a situation when their incomes drop dramatically or something terrible happens that their jumping expenses will rise to survive. You're in a family situation that gets 30,000 a month and a month is 10,000 minus, and you're pretending nothing, and the next month it might be 15 and this is how we're going to wait to see what happens. Every company that is in a similar situation is particularly trying to maintain production, trying to put some money into something that has a chance to grow and cut costs. And you're the only ones pretending that the government doesn't have to do that. I don't think so, but if he doesn't have to, let's really cut off all the other tax types and increase the budget, because we're gonna borrow and it's not a big deal. We were proposing here when the budget was still being discussed at a time of well-being, various types of savings. I'm gonna dust it off. There's 150 billion. The reserve, which was already at Christmas, can be cut even further. It is not just the political non-profits and various self-eating organisations within the state, but we are, for example, a country that has three times the subsidies to private entities from the budget. Consider, for example, Switzerland. This is a country where it is not possible to produce a deficit in the state budget from the Constitution, and if so, part of that deficit must be a proposal as to how it will be repaid in the next five years. There's no attempt here, there's a view of October's regional elections and the next October's national elections, and then, God's will be done! When it's overworked, it can be found in the filing we gave, where money can be saved, I'm not going to repeat everything here, so I don't hold you back. Then I would like to raise one more question. Now that we're talking more or less about debt, about debt, how we're going to repay it, I'd ask the Prime Minister one thing. This thing is called the New Generation EU, which is nothing more than the common debts of the European Union and the common tax. That's the thing standing in front of the gates, coming up. I would like to ask the Government of the Czech Republic and the Prime Minister what our position is. Because I belong to those who don't like debt, for me the current state budget situation is terrifying, but I would very much like not to add to it the debt repayment of Spain, Italy and others in this wonderful New (?) event. Generation EU. By the way, it introduces - or intends to introduce, to be precise - four new common taxes, or to break the taboo that the European Union has no own money. These are new emission allowances, which under Jan Hus was called indulgences, so for example now, I don't know, in Litvínov, the chemist could be more prosperous, they could support hockey, instead they'll take it away, and some banker is trading it as a European emission permit, and he's profiting from it, not the people who live there. The second interesting idea is the tax on the size of the company they are about to introduce. The third is an import carbon tax, a kind of global duty. The fourth is a digital European tax. This scares me very much, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister what our position as Czech Government is, whether it is strictly rejecting, whether it is clear veto and in no way going to participate, or whether it is like the European Green Deal, where you express yourself very negatively for Lightning magazine and the like - I agree with you - but in reality the government is already sending signals that we are going to participate, or it is something else for people and something else on the outside. In short, if you are not upset with the European Union only when it criticizes you personally, but if you are principled in matters that concern the whole Czech Republic. I would like to hear this while discussing this budget, but we really cannot support this in the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, allow me also a few comments on a subject which is extremely serious, because today we are launching a discussion at the end of which the decision will be whether or not to indebt the Czech Republic, the Czech state with half a trillion crowns. It's an unprecedented amount. I would like to start by quoting an American diplomat who said about the Czech Republic: We have you well analysed. You look good, you're excellent technicians, athletes, you've got beautiful women, you've had one of the best industries in the world, you've run 1,800 of the 3,500 disciplines, and no one in the world has had that since making buttons, glass, porcelain, beer, weapons, and nuclear power plants. You have a beautiful country. But you're in one big mess. You're all against everyone, you're not able to agree on anything, you have no discipline. You unite once every 20 years when foreign tanks arrive or you win the Olympics in hockey. However, what you have succeeded in the past 30 years, and this has failed to completely reset all the achievements you have achieved in the past. Today you are only a warehouse, a montage of Europe. That's a statement from a high-ranking American diplomat. And for me, it evokes the belief that we are essentially not just a montage Europe, but that we are actually a colony that is dependent on other European states, Member States of the European Union, perhaps even the United States of America, and that we are deciding on whose bell is being played and who will actually be willing to contribute once to the purchase of Czech bonds, and especially interest on them. Because it's not just about the bonds, it's assumed that bonds will never actually repay, that only interest on them will be repaid, at the sum of 500 billion, and I'm not an economist, that's not possible. In 2018, we approved a state budget of 1 trillion 688 billion. In 2019 it was 1 trillion 505 billion, in 2020, the original budget was 1 trillion 618 billion. Soon after that, I believe, the end of March, April, we approved a budget of 200 billion, followed by press 789 approving a budget of 330 billion, and now we are faced with the question of approving a budget of 500 billion in print 833. It is no secret that the Minister of Finance was suffocating that he would no longer go to the Chamber of Deputies, before this forum, requiring that the state budget contain an even greater deficit. Frankly, I'm not entirely convinced. No one knows the exact numbers and the issue of emergency conditions, three months of shutting down the economy, problems caused by the Coronavirus, car industry shutdown, where, for example, Mladá Boleslavská Škodovka travels for only three days a week and almost 25 percent of Czech companies are self-employed, wakes up a number and a number of questions. I am not convinced in this situation that we should only support self-employed people. Yes, of course, we must, and especially those who were not allowed to do business because of the shutdown of the economy, the emergency situation and the ban. But then there are also a number of companies that could not, or because of the disease, have had to shut down the disease measures and stop their operations. Of course, the power plants could not stop, the steelworks could not stop, the glassworks did not stop completely to the right, which was on top of it and which could never catch up with the deficit, because it simply cannot be fulfilled by the fact that suddenly during the summer or autumn the volume of transported persons would increase significantly. I must also point out that the decision of former Minister Took without a three-year tender to enter transport to certain Arriva companies has proved highly tragic. To this day, this company has not shown itself with operational problems, nor is it able to get the machines that issue tickets at the stations passing through, not to mention the fact that one ticket cannot be bought, which would allow people to choose their way once by Arriva and return with the Czech Railways. These are the minor problems that burden people who are discussing, who are concerned about their return home, and which, unfortunately, even if the railroads were being filled and drained by the considerable capacity of overcrowded roads, have caused the opposite. And that is also the government's responsibility, although I understand that the Communist Party has expressed its support for this government and has enabled it to rule with confidence, not in demise, not in some half-baked state, and also that it has approved the budget for 2020 and then all the remaining budgets that have increased those deficits to 200, 330 billion, and that, after long negotiations and negotiations, it is willing to support the 500 billion, especially because we also want to make up for the hugely low incomes of social health nurses by at least 2 billion, because they are far worse off than nurses in other health institutions. And I'm not saying that because I wouldn't wish nurses in hospital health facilities, bed health facilities, because even there, inflation doesn't cover those salaries anymore, which is growing more and more in the Czech Republic. I ask myself what kind of money the government is actually counting on, credit, what their value, which base makes up a draft, is far from being the three-month promise of a textbook-twisted note at different departments of universities and secondary schools. Bonds are already being talked about, but bonds are buying banks, and banknotes will gradually lose the character of credit money, they will not gradually match the value of the corresponding goods, they will devalue themselves, the purchasing power will fall, faster than the economy will revive, and the price of goods will rise and the inflation rate will grow, not inflation supporting economic growth. I understand the list, which divided 136 billion into individual items and when the so-called Communist Party's requirements were met. But if these values go purely into the consumer industry segment and they don't go into a big, high-value industry, then the money will be run through, they won't start economic growth, they won't start unemployment, and it won't take long, and we'll be standing here before the question of increasing government debt, raising the contribution to unemployment support, addressing social benefits. And in this context, I'm a little surprised at the debate that the pirát are having about the so-called negotiators. [[12.40 hours]] I don't want to argue that these people deserve a decent life and a decent income. However, I would like to remind them, through the President, of such a basic position in terms of labour law, which is actually also my daily bread. And since I also have to report a certain conflict of interest here, because I run a small trade union, I would like to say that the agreement on carrying out work in Czech labour law is a special form of a founding employment relationship, a relationship between an employer and an employee who is not an employment relationship. I stress - which is not an employment relationship. The employer is to ensure the performance of his/her tasks primarily by employees in employment. Work relationships outside employment should therefore only be used for example for occasional temps. A similar employment relationship is also an employment agreement, which is more appropriate for the activity of a more consistent nature. For example, the contract for the work is already very different because it is not a work relationship with certain guaranteed content, but a classic civil contract between the client, de facto client and customer, and the contractor, de facto entrepreneur, businessman. Thus, not about the relationship between the employer and the employee, about the tied relationship, but about the supplier and the customer. The employment agreement has a slightly different character, but it is very similar. The employment agreement in the Czech labour law is a special form of basic employment relationship between the employer and the employee, which is not also a employment relationship. And once again, I am stressing here - it is not a employment relationship either. The work agreement is regulated by the Labour Code, which is generally known. The employer is intended to ensure the performance of his/her tasks primarily by employees in employment, so employment outside employment should therefore be used only for example for occasional temps. A similar employment relationship is also an agreement on the performance of work, which is more suitable for the operation of a one-off character. For example, the contract for work is already very different and therefore it is not a employment relationship with certain guaranteed content, but a classic civil contract between the client, de facto the relationship between the client and the customer, the contractor of the work, de facto the entrepreneur and the trader, i.e. not the relationship between the employer and the employee, but the supplier and the customer. The agreement must be concluded in writing, the agreed work, the agreed scope of working time and the time for which the agreement is concluded must be indicated. I understand the attempts to extend it from 300 hours to 400 hours. Compared to a proper employment relationship, some employees' rights and employers' rights, such as notice periods only last 15 days, cannot be closed for work to an extent exceeding the average half of the fixed weekly working hours and is therefore suitable, for example, for regular service or cleaning services. I think that this is a cheap act by the Minister of Finance, perhaps also by the Minister of Labour or Government, the Pirates, for supporting a deficit of 500 billion. I understand that this is a welcome group of about 116 thousand citizens. I do not think these people should be ostracized, but it is one of the reasons why we had a big dilemma, a big dilemma to support the transposition amendment of the Labour Code, which went beyond its scope, introduced shared places, and even after the President's statement by ČMKOS, it is completely pointless and misses the full effect. In this situation, I think it should be for the government, above all, to support the driving engines of a high-value economy, the necessary self-employed people who actually suffered from the crisis were forced to stop their operations and then take care of employees. Then take care of the employees with dignity and maintain employment. If this is not met, there will be a very difficult pressure on both the social system and the pension system. We are willing to discuss at second and third reading a deficit of 500 billion. But I would like to say in advance that if our amendments are not heard, for example, if they are not added to nurses in social areas, then do not expect our support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Dolejš will now appear and Mr. Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot of words have fallen on the subject of the state budget amendment for this year. I, if you don't mind, would like to draw your attention to the fact that this isn't just a matter of promising people before the holidays that we think about sending them something, but that what's happening right now has some strategic implications. And even though there is no crucial strategic decision on the table today, the time of strategic decision-making is near. And depending on whether we respond strategically well or badly, the position of the Czech Republic will look like this in the future. So let's remember that if the government came up with this year's proposal - I stress the word of this year's deficit of half a trillion crowns - it couldn't have been a big surprise for most of us. If you were watching the debates of various macro-economics, then from the moment when the unpleasant, yet partially marginal virosis became a pandemic that symmetrically hit the entire globe, and if our shutting down the economy as well as in other countries began to count the length of not days, but weeks and months, it was clear that we would not do without relatively overwhelming impacts. And the number of half a trillion deficits for 2020 if we go to GDP, so we're getting somewhere over 9 percent, which is a record number, but it's going to be record number in other countries. So I think the debate about whether half a trillion is inappropriate or not isn't disproportionate isn't exactly the right nut. That the money is undoubtedly in a certain order that other countries in Europe are releasing, and I am no longer measuring it with rich countries such as neighbouring Germany, which really reached into the pocket, and had nowhere to reach, it is also necessary to admit, which therefore really reached into the pocket and leaving the money far more generously, or if you want more robust. What is probably important and specific to our Czech situation is, if only inspired by these examples, we have also caught up in caches, we will also release some of the money. But if we're aware of what we're doing, if these financial flows are going in the right direction and they're going to be effective enough. And the moment it goes out, or we're going to overcome the first stage of the crisis that has to do with shutting down the economy and compensating for the state's decision to make a decision, he preferred lives before the economy goes undisturbed, so we're going to decide how to draw up a budget strategy when the good times ended, when the boom here in this country basically lasted from 2013 until last year, ended. When the conditions in the international territorial division of work, when supply-customer relations may be broken down, I would say even in the global supply-customer chain, and in short, we will have to face a number of new challenges. So it assumes a strategic response. And today we should just say whether we know where we're sending the money. And if that's what we're gonna do, we're gonna do the basic minimum. So such generous words, as we invest again at the top of the peloton, I think it is yet to be expected that we will have to take such a crucial decision above the budget in 2021 first. And then I would like to draw your attention to the fact that perhaps we can also accept the task, the recommendation, in parentheses of the government's task, that it is high time for us to get these forward-looking things straightened out, because even if we get somewhere to debt 2.5 trillion, which could be somewhere over 40 percent of GDP, which is not a European dramatic number, but it is debt, debt has to be repaid. And, of course, if we set budgetary policy wrong, the ordinary taxpayers will pay it back, and we certainly don't want that. [[12.50 hours]] When it comes to targeting the money, I have to repeat what we said when we learned what the government had approved on June 6 that we were surprised. We were surprised not by the number, but by the fact that a half-billion-dollar deficit came to Parliament in the form of a very strong union, where we read only three basic figures. And that was completely inadequate to what it actually meant. So this was the first signal that we're catching a cat by the tail, that we're missing something here, that we don't actually know exactly what we want. This brings me to the opinion of the National Budget Council here several times, which we can think of anything about experts there, but they are already conceived by law and anchoring this institution as a neutral body, which should, regardless of our parliamentary political passions, convey certain judgments. It has been repeated here that they consider this proposal to be disproportionate, premature and perhaps not sufficiently justified and argumentated. As for the inadequacy, the quantitative dimension of the deficit, I have already put it here. I think the difference between 450 billion. or 550 billion. is not essential and that the problem is much greater if we approve the deficit and then simply spend it somehow by the inertia of the functioning of the public administration. As for the premature - I see a little problem there, because the argument that it is pointless to bother in the summer, that we will make it before the holidays and that the money we have released in previous decisions is 200 and 300 billion, maybe it is only partially valid. The fact is, 300 billion. It's not exhausted yet. The fact is that the benefits of such instruments as the Treasury make it possible to manage and use liquidity fairly effectively. And probably if we agreed to this amendment on June 16th, as originally considered, so if we do it now on July 15th, we will undoubtedly find that nothing has happened at all. So the prematureness here is certain. The question is whether we should have waited for harder data, i.e. have data on economic developments in the first half of the year. There we know that the statistical office is releasing it with a certain slip, or maybe in the first half of the year we could learn about the data sometime in the middle of the holidays, sometime in early August. If it's not too late, first of all. And secondly, if the data already gives us some high degree of certainty that there aren't any changes yet. I'm afraid the situation isn't quite calm yet. That certain turbulence is possible, and now I'm not playing the prophet over the second wave. I believe it won't be, or if it is, it will be small. But faith is not enough. So in this respect, hard data for the first half of the year will give a more accurate picture, but it is not quite a basic argument. So not from that point of view. Then the argument is also made that we are within the approved 300 billion. They've already released a mass of money for specific assistance, compensation for shutting down the economy. And now help happy, unhappy, slowly pumped... So to say, if everything is going well in this respect, it works fine, and only on the basis of that decide what else we will pay and whether these tools are happily set up, there, of course, the question marks are in place. After all, the signals are coming from practice. But now we may be dealing with some things that aren't just related to the compensation, but they already have the character of a transition to the next stage of the crisis. So, yes, we don't have to rush, but if we make this decision calmly, and after all, in the morning, we've got rid of the shadow of a legislative emergency, and now we're just gonna figure out if we're gonna do it in any number of days, I don't think there's any drama here either. So the last thing that remains to decide is that this step, which de facto, in terms of our strategic decision-making, is rather a foretaste, so if we fill it with, let's say, a clear conscience. Only after the pressure not only of the opposition, but also of the KSČM government agreed that 16th Tuesday, when the Committee on Budgets discussed this, an amendment was born, which was marked as a comprehensive amendment and is from the workshop, or is authorized by the Member, in parentheses by the Prime Minister, Babiš. Of course, the fact that it wasn't born until Tuesday 16, suggests that this is actually the answer to the criticism of the inadequacy, that it's basically an attempt to correct the original error, that the ideas were too naive, too eager, but it's a step in the right direction. And now the question is, if in those days that we have left until the final vote, we're going to pick up that step so that a majority can really support it. And this is where we need to take it apart, and the key blocks, so I'm gonna start with the investment block. Of course, if we only have six months left until the end of the year, it makes sense to let money go where they're all ready for it. When the project is finished, when the project is already running and just waiting to be funded for its next phase, where everything can actually run in short moments. Building capacity availability, project preparation and running. I think that, in particular, the segment that goes to the municipalities corresponds to that. Whether it goes the way of the MMR program or it's the tiny program that the Chamber of Deputies has in its administration and which goes to municipal schools and municipal housing, that it certainly satisfies them. Investments that are directed through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, whether it is the Railway Infrastructure Administration area, or the Road and Motorway Directorate, there is also a relatively rich stack of projects, which are just waiting for the sky mana, i.e. budget money, it starts dripping. So I think we can also achieve the rapid effect there. Somehow I have a question mark over the purchase of water management systems, because it is not a simple matter, there mainly you have to have a dirty legal path and prepared things contracted. But it's on its way. So I think the investment area is in the modest one, i.e. supplementing already approved investments by some of those, say, 40 billion. The crown that will bring the effect. That it would bring the effect. Another area is the area of promoting demand and saving jobs. Support for demand is clear. This means that when we were forced at home and received only a fraction of the income, so when we finally have some money to spend, so that the citizen gets used to not having to sit crouched at home, but he can buy something to liven up consumption, and for that, let's say, he needs a job perspective. That's the job protection thing. And here I think those flows are set in a reasonable way again. So if that's how I interpret the exposition of 139 billions. The koruna with over 30 billion. He's going to the government reserves, because the uncertainty is high today, so there's logic. [[13.00 hours]] What needs to be explained is that some items on that list are somewhat, let's say, general and that there is therefore a specific prepared drawing behind them. For example, when there is a public sector item, it is clear that if we direct significant money to the health sector, we know what it is going to do in the health sector, that state or regional health institutions will actually get the money in question, both in terms of capacity and in terms of remuneration in the health sector. Because they have worked their way through the crisis, and I think they need it, they need it to be taken into account financially. In business, it may be with a little bit more question mark, but I believe that in communication with responsible departments, whether it is the MIT or other resorts that are moving in this area, we could trace that it will actually be used by the end of the year. And then the last look at that list, and that's that it can be made up of amendments. I think that the possibility of amendments will not only give it a more concrete and acceptable form for those who will vote, but it is actually a chance to take account of other perspectives. Each side has some kind of voter background, we each have some kind of specific experience--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u25	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u26	It's one o'clock already? [[Yes.]] There you go. So at least you have hopes that when I get back here, I'll be a lot more brief because I wanted to go to the finals. But perhaps after a good lunch, you'll allow me to address at least the five final sentences to the auditorium.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u27	Undoubtedly, yes. I am now interrupting the session of the Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of the agreement between the political grémia and the presidents of the parliamentary clubs. Please pay attention, because this time the lunch break will only be an hour. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will resume at 14.00. Before I conclude this meeting, Mr Jaroslav Martin's apology from the afternoon meeting from 14.00 to the end of the meeting day for working reasons. And I note that Mr Dolejš's speech will continue at 14:00, with a factual remark prepared by Mr Jiří Bláha, and President Zbyněk Stanjura is registered with priority rights. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue our negotiations. First, let me introduce you to the apologies that have come in the meantime. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes today from 14:00 to 17:00 for reasons of work, Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologizes from 14:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, and because of the doctor's visit from 14:00 to 19:00 or until the end of the day, Mrs Miloslava Rutová apologises. I interrupted our meeting in the morning when Mr Dolejš was at the speaker's desk and he will continue his speech now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u29	Thanks again for the word. Pleasant experience, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not gonna ruin this for you with long reports, but still, if you don't mind, I'd at least finish what I was gonna do. I'm going to start with the pre-lunch bridge by at least reminding me that I tried to justify why we're critically state-building before lunch - I'd call that position. This means that although we have called the government's hasty step wrong, it is still possible to complete it. Firstly, with regard to the reservation of the National Budget Board that this is a disproportionate step, I have perhaps demonstrated that this is not so dramatic, even though we can, of course, work with different data. Bruegel.org presents some comparable calculations, and there are countries that give more than we do, and there are countries that give a little less because they are poorer or not so affected, but it is comparable. So the inadequacy, I don't think it's relevant. As for prematureness, here I am, yes, admitted that we can learn a lot of interesting things that would make our work easier, but it's not a drama. In short, if we were so much smarter in August than we are at the end of June, I don't think that's the main thing. So actually, what we need to focus on is proof of the design and the processing of the proposal. There, yes, we were actually very critical there, and we think that now, especially at second reading, our possibility is to correct the poor quality of the original government proposal. And now the second part of my speech, which could be even shorter than this morning, is that I would like to focus on the fact that even if we manage to approve this amendment of the budget, we will have a half-billion deficit and we will wait for the money to arrive and how we will manage this stage of the crisis, so we need to think more and more intensively and especially in the wider context and in substance about the strategic future. I think there's gonna be bread breaking in that strategic future. And not only because of the electoral consequences, but also because of the position of the Czech Republic for the next term, for some future. That is why I think that this debate can be properly started by what we would like the government to take on its task, and that is to process the concept of consolidation of public finances. So consolidation, of course, means that if we create an imbalance, we get rid of the imbalance so that, of course, it doesn't have a negative impact on citizens, and at the same time we don't start a certain debt spiral. This means that the concept really should have a longer-term, more thought-out character, thereby giving up the pragmatic compromise that this government has in its foundations, that means that these things seem to have been factored in front of the parentheses. This means that fundamental structural reforms have only been drawn up, and who knows if we can - I'm running into a little bit of pension reform - not touching taxes as far as possible, and so on. If the government, when we were discussing the law on budgetary responsibility, stated itself in its comments that it is addressing the non-application of this standard because it believes that it is not about handling it from year to year, but that there is at least seven years of time. So we took the liberty of catching up with the seven-year term. After all, the European Union is planning for seven years, and we would like the government to plan the strategy to get out of the current problems, for example, for the seven years. It is very important to be clear when we see the budget as an instrument of active fiscal policy, or how to invest from the crisis, in order to realise that it is not just the volume of government spending, but that investment as a whole is being talked about in the most important areas. This means that there should be some leverage there, which means that if the government sector, let's say, creates conditions and makes the region an investment-interesting, some kind of investment opportunity, it should collect private capital and, through this leverage, actively influence the future structure of the Czech economy and modernization of our economic base. This must, of course, be in line with the whole concept of guarantees, the role of loans, the role of the banking sector, from which we have somehow created a kind of last instance creditor through the temporary amendment of the CNB Act, which, of course, enters into these processes with the task of stabilising the financial sector. And I think this will be an important part of that fiscal strategy. Of course, the plan at 1.5 trillion -- I guess, if I remember it, the original numbers -- would need to be specified. We do not need telephone lists, nor, I would say, some too visionary communication, but we need a concrete procedure, and I think that we need to clarify the future of such things as the Development Fund, to what extent the banking sector will be involved in these matters and whether the banking sector will participate only to the extent necessary, which it has purchased by delaying the banking tax law. Well, last but not least, we will involve, or we should involve, European money in the matter. The current debate on Europe's plan to revive the economy, and therefore de facto also to save European integration, let's face it, is in such a state that it does not seem to be a unanimous decision in sight, and we must realise that the specifics of our structural profile lead us to the fact that some things should be more actively negotiated so that out of the 750 billion euros, which is some 20 trillion crowns that will flow to Europe, so that, first of all, adequate money flows to us, secondly, so that they are targeted so as not to hinder and complicate the competitiveness of our industry, and so we are able, let's say, to pass on to the new, future, happier structural forms of our economy so that we do not become even more dependent. Let it be an energy dependency, let it be an addiction, let's say our profile towards innovation and finding gaps in the market, and so on and so on. So these are certain priorities that should be reflected in these considerations, and I dare say that we should detabuise, actually detabuise, and tax matters. I'm not crazy, I'm an economist, so I know that at a time when the economy is almost going to minus 10 percent and next year we won't get to the level of 2019, it certainly wouldn't be the right message for entrepreneurs that we're going to raise their taxes, no way. But the structure of the tax burden is a bit misleading in that period when we're going to be back in the boom and we're going to try to do something, I don't want to say catch up and overtake it, but let's say we get a little bit more light and be a modern industrial country, so consider the structure of taxes, think about certain tax innovations, I think it's appropriate. It is not only my intention or some kind of visionism, but some academics who avoid being involved in this or that political stream have not said that they are populists. So it's an objective subject. When we look around the world, the taxes are set differently. And the fact that we are a small and open country will undoubtedly play a role in this. But let us detabuize this issue, because I think that if we just focus on cutting off expenditures or settling those debts in a book-keeping way, then we're going to have the fiscal strategy too passive, and that would also not be good. [[14.10 hours]] So it's to restock my morning exhibit. Now it is, I think, practically everything I wanted to say at this point, and I will look forward especially to the second reading, because there I think it is more than appropriate to explain the form of the proposal, and we will be happy to be involved in going through what has a consensual and logical best chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha is registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to pause over one thing that is constantly sounding here. You're molding an incredibly government here, and you're saying more precisely, give us the exact budget where it goes. I think that's the worst thing you can do, because in this situation, it would be better to leave the money in a pile and really split it when we know exactly where it's gonna be, because in a month of the situation, it could be completely different. There may be nothing left to invest, because more will be needed in social policy or other matters. But what I'd like to say first of all. You're molding the government here, and on the other hand, you're starting to wonder where it hit Germany, how deep it hit the pocket, and it actually had it. But the fact that they are 36 percent more indebted to GDP than we are, and that our debt to Europe's average is 40 percent lower, no one has ever pointed that out. So you need to think about what you're evaluating here. And if you want to evaluate, you really need to stop throwing billions of pitchforks when none of you are able to determine what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Other factual points will follow. First, Mr Radek Koten. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u33	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. He won't give it to me, and I have to respond to my previous speakers here for one simple reason. The Czech Republic does not really remember such a high deficit in the state budget, and I only have one such comment. I'll be very short. We're going to have a deficit about the amount of such construction of the Dukovany nuclear power plant or one of those buildings of the Temelín nuclear power plant. Well, I wonder how we're going to run and deliver these two plants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. The following is the factual comment made by Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. In all brief. A colleague of the government's YES, that we are molding the government. Well, get used to it. The government is minority, the government needs tolerance, and if some of her steps are just not on the top with an asterisk, then we're gonna mold and mold. But most importantly, notice that our state-building, the critical state-building, is headed for a positive result. I think the government itself has thought about itself, if the white paper, which didn't specify the items at all, tried to write down the items. We welcome it, we think it needs to be explained and created. It's perfectly all right. But I wouldn't sneak up on us for this. By the way, the Margo of the nuclear power plant. If we are really to maintain the core position in the Czech energy mix, then it may not be possible without state-funded cheap money, or bonds. But that's a little different, it's already about the strategic framework and, of course, the price of debt service money, and for what money we'll be able to make this money using government bonds at that point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to read to you at the Margo of the debate that took place here between Mr Bláha and Mr Dolejš, through you, two sentences from the evaluation of the Supreme Audit Office for the State's management for 2018: The State budget is even worse prepared for any recession than it was ten years ago. Even moderate economic weakening can cause high deficits in such budget settings. That's what the Supreme Audit Office said two years ago. And I must say, Mr Dolejš, by your means, that if the criticism in quotation marks, you said state-building, came also in the approval of the previous budgets of this government, which drove us to the fact that the current expenditure of the state budget increased more than normal revenue last year, we would not have to approve such high budgets here today. And for the deficit budgets and for the high deficits, from my point of view, the government is hiding that it has not managed effectively with taxpayers' funds in recent years. And unfortunately, on the basis of the margo of its management described by the Supreme Audit Office, we must today - or we do not have to. The government is hoping to increase our taxpayers' deficit and their jumping debt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Blaha's point of order is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just in response to Mr. Bláha. Mr President, what you have said is precisely the essence. That's exactly what the secretary put forward, she came to the budget committee, she said, "The deficit is going to be half a trillion and don't ask us anything." We're just gonna spend it. Why do you want to know the details for which it's not your place? We're learning new tricks here. And I think the way you said it would be wrong for the opposition to know exactly what the money would be used for, so I think at the moment, if the government knew what it wanted to use it for, it would come before this Chamber of Deputies and ask her to approve these expenses here. And in response to Mr Dolejš, again through Mr President. My colleague, I think that this government has a defined majority from the very beginning. Let's not play the minority government here. You supported her from the beginning, so don't play this theater here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. Mr Dolejš with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u41	I'm sure we'll let go of those who are properly logged in, but here I won't just forgive myself for a brief line. Firstly, the minority government discussed its support in its creation. And then, of course, we vote primarily on those points that are part of our tolerance patent. Understandably, if we want to push for something, we have to pay for it, so we pay great attention to the budget. But if we are talking about the budgetary past - and I understand that the opposition already has a different perspective from the description of its work, also more critical, we said that if we voted on budgets 2018 and 2019, that was a very pragmatic compromise. We were just saying that the budgetary philosophy behind these budgets is not our philosophy. We would have made these budgets completely different. So I think these reservations are a little odd. And we're thinking more about the future. This means that we will finally open up a debate on the budgetary strategies. We may get a little right-wing duel back, but that's not from the point of view, because so far, we've been doing more of our best in this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura apologizes from 14:00 to 14:30 for business reasons. President Zbyněk Stanjura will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, members of the government, colleagues, they say that the budget, therefore, is the law of the year. [[Nesroz.]] I don't think that's the law of the year. And your absence to discuss this suggests that I am right, that it is not the law of the year, that there are often more important laws. Maybe I could start by looking for adjectives to the deficit. Giant, gigantic, historically largest, two and a half times worse than the worst result of 2009, very often mocked so-called. Kalouskův's budget. Suddenly, it cannot be used as a mockery when the deficit of about 5 percent of GDP was 192 billion. And the secretary here at the beginning said that an emergency requires extraordinary means. And yesterday I saw on TV her gig after the government - now I don't know if it was a conscious, unconscious slip, or the secretary meant it and said, "We have a lot of problems ahead of us that we need money for. - I think we need a solution to the problems first, and there's money in the second row, but maybe it was a slip. I know how hard it is sometimes to react immediately, but it was at a press conference, I think, your opening word, Madam Secretary. [[14.20 hours]] And I actually agree that the emergency situation needs extraordinary solutions and extraordinary means. What do we see? The only word I think that can be easily - and I say it sadly - to describe the functioning of the government in the budgetary area since 12 March is cluelessness. I really see absolute cluelessness. And then I'm going to go through with you all three of the amendments that we've been discussing here to remind ourselves what the government has been doing in the budget area and what it's doing so far. We, from the beginning of this crisis as citizens' democrats, have said that aid from the state must be swift, massive and smart. In the first stage, that means in the first days and weeks, it should have been fast and massive. Today, when we have 115 days since the first sick person was found in the Czech Republic, and when we have about 103 days since the state of emergency and more than a month after the end of the situation, I think we can evaluate it. Help wasn't quick. If it's about 1% of GDP these days, if it's 55 or 60 billion, it's not fast or massive. So the government missed phase one, didn't prepare either quick or massive aid. At this point, the fourth month since the crisis began, the aid should be particularly clever. If you look at the material, the House press 889, it actually has about two and a half pages in content, and the original material says, give us 140 billion, we'll sort it out. Indeed, none of us can see that as clever help from the state. This has brought us to a completely unique, unique historical moment when the Prime Minister is making an amendment to his own draft budget as a Member. Well, we haven't really seen this place before, and the fact itself is ridiculous. And the aim of the amendment is supposed to be to explain the expenditure. I'll get to it when I comment on the third novel. So I must say that this objective has not been achieved, there is nothing that we can support. Speaking of cluelessness, I would expect some kind of economic strategy of government, good or bad, left-wing or right-wing, whatever we have to argue about, so we can put up with arguments, our view of the world. And I'm in favour of going back to the left-handed conflict, because that's the engine of politics, when left-wing and right-wing concepts meet, and voters once put on those left-wing concepts, one day they put on the right-wing ones, and in the long-term, it's somehow balanced. But here we see a real accounting approach. Some people add it up, they watch it, they get a report in the morning about the implementation of the state budget, or what the expenditures were, they add up, they come in here and they say, "Dear people, today it's 500." - But it's just a number, there's no strategy behind it. That number could be 450, 460, 470, 480, 500, 510, 520. In fact, it would make no difference to the content of this press. We might not say it's half a trillion, but we'd call it less than half a trillion or more than half a trillion. But the fact that there isn't even a hint of strategy, some clever solution, that wouldn't change the other number at all. You'd expect the government to run something in such a turbulent period, but the government switched to autopilot, and sometimes the autopilot gets dragged over to where it's going. This is the greatest shortage of this material. And now, please, let's go through the three prints together, and what the government has been doing ever since. To remind you, the first press had the number 789 and we got it on March 23rd. That's almost a political prehistory. This was still a time when the government could be tolerated for not actually coming up with a clever solution. We couldn't justly want March 23rd, 11 days after the government declared emergency, to come up with some clever solution. But she could have come up with a quick and massive solution. Let's see what the first novel brought. She's reduced her income by 90 billion. and increased spending by 70 billion, which means the deficit has increased by 160 billion. There were not many of us who abstained on the 200, which was approved by the vast majority of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't think anyone opposed it. Even the delay - at least for us - had a symbolic effect that we understood the extraordinary situation, and many of us, when they were speaking at that time in the debate, said: we understand, we are unable to assess exactly whether 200 is the right number, but why not, let us not prevent a quick discussion, the government must do something. In those three months, all the budget fouls she made in the preparation of the budget, the standard budget, came to the government for 2020. Seven billion from the frequency auction. It's a government decision. This has nothing to do with covid. Seven billion away, reduced revenue. A bad proposal by the government to prolong the VAT refund. Under the concentrated pressure of the opposition and also the upper chambers, the Minister gave way, in principle prepared a political compromise of the new tax order, which went through both the butter knife and the upper chamber. Sixteen billion of planned income gone. We repeat a hundred times that the budget should contain already passed laws and their implications in the budget, a hundred times we talked about it in the first, second and third readings, when we discussed the draft state budget for 2020, the government Members laughed at us a hundred times, and the truth is that it was just a painted number in the press that had no value because you were unable to get a majority for this proposal. That's 23 billion. minus without the covid. Two billion digital taxes. The same story, drawn into the budget, has not yet been decided. Maybe we'll decide in July, I don't know exactly how it's gonna work out. So we already have 25 billion. minus without touching any reason for the covid crisis. Just budget fouls of government that she said were all fair, that it just fits, that the opposition is making up. Time has given us the truth. That's 25 billion. It shouldn't have been in the revenue budget at all, that would have been a deficit of 65 and not 40. In the first amendment to press 789, the government's budget reserve increased by less than 60 billion, 59.3 billion, so it is actually repeating the same scenario as the first amendment of the 23rd March, when it came to the Chamber of Deputies. I remember when some amendments were declared unvoting as amending to the state budget because they would reduce the government's budget reserve below the legal deadline - which, by the way, you know and remember how much the government's budget reserve is legally laid down, under which it must not fall: 4.86 billion. The government budget reserve was approved at 4.86 billion. And at the first amendment, we raised it by almost 60, so the cost of serving the state debt increased, which means debt service, by 5 billion. [[Amount]] [[14.30 hours]] The big problem is a subtle item called state financial assets - plus 20 billion. If we took a test, how many of us know where the government of those 20 billions came from. I'm afraid the result wouldn't be too high. You know where the government got the 20 billion.? From the surplus pension account. From the surplus pension account! The government that says in every other performance how they think about the elderly. Twenty billion. took from the surplus pension account, in other words, that over the past two years, taxpayers have paid more in pension insurance than they have paid in pensions themselves. Just about 20 billion. And that was the only change in expenses. Not a penny in investment, 70 billion. extra. Not a penny, 60 billion. From the reserve, 20 billion. a drained pension account reserve and 5 billion. increase in interest on debt. To imagine what a government debt service is - interest, 5 billion. Upstairs. Then the government saved - in quotation marks - by cutting off 1.5 billion fare discounts, what it had already prevented by having limited movement, limited travel. That actually saved itself. I understand the government cut it off, the item wouldn't be exhausted anyway, but it's not a real savings. Reactions - you know how trains and buses have been running since mid-March, in April and May, how many connections had to be canceled because they were simply not passengers. I get it. I'm not criticizing that. And then nearly three billion were cut off. from the Ministry of Defence budget. On the revenue side, the novel was already counting on a drop in income of 90 billion, 7 of which were drawn, 7 billion. from the frequency auction, when the new Minister of Industry canceled the long-term event, and at this point it's in some kind of interstate, so stand on the 7 billion. He can't see at all. And then the corporate estimate went down by 30 billion. 30 billion. after three weeks of crisis. I don't know why the government just touched here, but so be it. Then the income from the dependent activity from the CFI decreased by 1.6 billion, for the withholding tax by the same amount, for the acquisition of real estate by 0.3. Of course, excise taxes on tobacco and mineral oils were also reduced, logically, lower operation, less riding, lower consumption, lower taxes. The amendment was quite simple, but it contained some estimates of the economy, a comparison that was justified in some way, and I say, especially those 20 billion. The pension account actually went unnoticed by the Chamber of Deputies, and I mean all of us. Even we didn't talk about it at that hectic time when we were discussing dozens of laws and we had hours to prepare. That's just an explanation. Less than a month later, on 20 April, the government came up with a second amendment, which raised the deficit by another 100 billion, with a decrease in revenue by 60 billion again. and expenses increased by 40 billion. When I add it up, I actually estimate another reduction in corporate tax by another 8 billion, individuals by 30 billion. I'd stop by here. If we look at budget implementation in the first five months, the estimates don't match. It is therefore appropriate to say that we are discussing this amendment prematurely. All the numbers I quote are only the Ministry of Finance numbers, no material other than the House's prints, tables and information published by the Ministry of Finance, I didn't prepare for my performance today, so I'm just talking about the Ministry of Finance numbers. So it's a huge slump. I know that the compensation bonus was already forecasted there in April, but still, the amount just doesn't add up. There's been an estimate of social security. That's not what I'm talking about. In fact, for the first and second amendments, there was an overall reduction in the estimate of social security income by 30 billion. Do you know what the difference will be with last year's social security income? Plus 100 million. And there were already the effects of the fact that minimum advances were forgiven after the Ministry of Social Insurance. Nevertheless, in the first five months, social security income, which also means pension insurance, comparable to 2019, to an extremely precise one, is perhaps a difference of 100 million. In case you're wondering, I have the tablet in front of me. Last year in the first five months, 226.24 billion were selected for social security, 226.35 this year. It's 100 per cent against last year's pension insurance, it was about 100.2 per cent. Yet the forecasted decline in the first two amendments is already 30 billion, the third amendment is almost 18 more, so it is almost 50 billion. Probable slump. The numbers in the first five months aren't responding. Yes, we can say that what we have approved as a relief of social security for companies up to 50 employees is 13.5 billion. The drop, I suppose, was a good count, it's the Ministry of Finance's number again, about 4.5 billion. A month. So it doesn't actually fit. So, without, as the Minister said, addressing a new macroeconomic estimate of the Czech economy's economy's economy, the government is simply reducing revenue in a strong way. Maybe the government is right, but we just don't know. The numbers are so few that I dare not evaluate from this place today and say: this number is not correct. But I honestly say that no one can know if it's right, not the government, not the finance secretary, not the opposition. Well, logically, we only have the numbers that are published by the government and the Ministry of Finance. And let's look at the expenses in the other novel, which was about 40 billion. Most went to the General Treasury, 15 billion. went into the government's budget reserve, so out of the original five billion. The Minister made almost 79 billion available to the government, not the Minister, and according to the Minister's words, there were 100 million left. I have no reason not to believe, I believe the secretary will send me the chart that will show where the 78.7 billion will go. I did. The cost of state debt has increased again, i.e. interest, by another 3 billion, so it's already 8 billion, just like that, per month; plus, I say, interest, without reducing the debt by a single crown. Also, the material was rather thin. And the most subtle thing is the number three material, when there's another estimated revenue cut, and the 137 billion. to the government's budgetary reserve. That means beyond the control of the Chamber of Deputies. We're realists, we know what the majority is. Indeed, it is a smiling attempt by the Communists to look like an opposition party. After Mr Dolejš and Mr Grospič's speeches, if I did not know what the political situation in the Czech Republic was, I will say: The opposition is attacking, so they have torn it down from the beginning to the end, they did not leave a dry thread on the material. Let's make it the 8th of July - well, let's bet. No, we're not gonna bet, let's just say, who's gonna be for the budget on July 8th? The Communists will be in or out? I prognosis, I'm not betting, I'm just predicting that the communists will be in favour, because we've seen the same dances in the 2019 budget, and we've seen the same dances in 2020. I don't know why she's so shy, but most of it exists, let's just take it as a fact. Since 16 June, there has been a discipline that has not been in the Chamber of Deputies for years. I came to the Chamber of Deputies ten years ago, in June 2010, as a newly elected Member, and I have not experienced it. It was called cutting up a bear. Many jilts, I think even Mr Dolejš experienced it. What do we see these days? There's a bear chopping up! 500 billion. Deficit, so sometimes somebody's trying to rip off the pie, the bear's portion, the one for good goals, the one for worse goals, but it's just a bear-slashing character. Let's face it. I haven't heard from those who negotiate on potential support for this proposal that they might want to cut their debt. We're just talking about what else we're gonna bite off when the debt's gonna be 500 billion. For us, I say we don't take part in the competition. We're not cutting up a bear. I don't think this discipline, that it's not in the House, it's okay with me. I'm saying I've never experienced, it doesn't offend me, and we're not suggesting that this discipline comes back. [[14.40 hours]] Let's see, those 25 billion, I already said they were budget fouls at the budget approval. Let us look at some of the expenditures and answer honestly ourselves whether this has to do with the cod crisis or whether it should have been granted honestly in the draft budget because we knew about the expenditures, or at least the government should have known about them. Somewhere between the first and second amendments, the government released money to mitigate the damage caused by barkworm in 2018. In 2018! I'm not questioning this expense. Was the government supposed to know when we were discussing the draft state budget for 2020? I did. Four billion if my memory doesn't deceive me. And in this amendment, Mr Babiš's proposal is less than 8 billion to mitigate the damage caused by the barkworm, this time in 2019. Was the government supposed to know about this year's budget? Well, I did. Don't tell me you learned about the crust in March 2020. That's not possible. Unconfessed expenses. Only the two items, 12 billion, have nothing to do with the crisis. In one of these materials, the Minister says that in the context of the crisis, and he says so in today's introductory words, they have debted hospitals that were in the front line. But we have to say the sentence right. They owed some hospitals - some that were in the front line. There were a number of hospitals in the front line. Regardless of whether the founder is a state, a region, a city or a private person. Wouldn't these five or six faculty hospitals really need debt without a covid? Well, it would be necessary. So if the government at least admitted color and said, "We've forgiven some of them, not all of them - that would be a system approach. I don't know how much it would be, I'm not suggesting it. I'm just saying that adding this to the covid crisis is just not fair. Because the debt would have to happen anyway. And ask the founders of other hospitals or other state hospitals - they won't let them, because they're afraid they'll be removed from office. But ask the founders and the management of other hospitals, as they perceive, this step. See if they can see it's a good and fair move. Right, I guess, but not fair to those you didn't help. So we can't have this 6.6 billion. add it up. And we're already at 20 billion. We're already at 20 billion. plus 25 billion. budget fouls. And only these three or four items are more than the planned balance of the state budget, which the government majority approved last December. The Minister said, and I agree with her, that she is actually publishing statistics on the various legislative proposals that led to support, or executive actions by the government to the first, I think it is reasonable that it is not worth doing interim results, individual days. But let's say it's going to be about - 1 percent of GDP is 62, it's 1.1 or 0.955. The resources are just different. When we look at them, these are steps that we as citizens of the Democrats have certainly supported, supported and evaluated as right. I'd mention at least two. Then I'll add about two more. Forgivement of minimum advances, forgiveness of minimum advances for social and health insurance, if it will be 15 billion, I don't know. So far in May, it looks like it's going to be less according to the Ministry of Finance's estimate. All right, it'll be 14 or 15 billion. And I'm sure it's good to forgive social security at least for those companies up to 50 employees, which is 13.5 billion. Which hasn't shown up yet. That's logical. It's due in June, July, August. Although there are absurd parameters on which the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs actually resigned, she refused to deal with them. That means all companies up to 10 employees, if they had one person per parent, they'd just get out of the program because they wouldn't meet 90 percent of the wage. Even though they kept all the jobs, even though all the employees who went to work didn't cut a penny's salary, they would lose that support. But that is the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We pointed it out in time, but she wouldn't let herself know as if she didn't know what we were talking about. It's like she's never met anyone who employs, like, five, six, seven, eight or nine people. Then he'll tell us that it's 88 percent of the businesses, but a large group of the smallest, if one of her employees was drawing on the Czech Republic, for which he had full legal right, we all agreed, so we can't criticize any of them for staying at home and caring for the children required when the schools were closed, so she slammed the program out of the program. And it's gonna be really interesting when we evaluate the government's help, so we know how many of those 80 percent of the small businesses are gonna get for that help. For example, up to ten employees, for the 50, it's probably not that dramatic, it would have to be a lot of people in the infirmary, 90 percent of the wages. At the moment, I say, when they didn't lay off and cut salaries, yet such companies come in short and they don't get the help. But that was Mrs. Maláčová's approach. Those were good steps, we support them. It's about 28 billion. I'll get to that right away. Compensatory bonus. Madam Secretary is praising him terribly, but if it wasn't for us, she didn't notice - to use her favorite verb - that the original proposal was completely wrong. I'm glad she noticed. Now I'm not saying it ironically. However, for us, the compensation bonus has the character of social benefits. Not real business support. Unlike social security relief. Because they were people to whom the government, I don't criticize it at all, shut down the premises from day to day, they couldn't do business and 15,000 net a month isn't for the development of the company, that's what you have to do to support the family somehow. So it was the right step, let's see what the total cost is, if it's 22, 24, 25 billion. We'll see about that when the second compensatory period is over. It's not over yet, they can still ask, so the bill isn't. I think we have an account for the first compensatory period. It should be de facto finished by the end of June, that was April 30th, I think it could have been requested 30 days if memory doesn't deceive me. Eight o'clock. 6. is the second compensation bonus. Well, we'll see about the middle of July at the end of July. But it has the character of welfare. I'm not questioning this expense. The same nature of the social benefit has a second large expense, it is the infirmary either for the employees or for the self-employed. We'll see, too. If you look at it, it's hundreds of thousands of people in total. And those are the ones the owners and the employers can't reach in those little companies because those people were right to draw on the infirmary. And I say, Secretary Maláčová didn't hear it. These are steps for which I would commend the government. The first is really supporting business or economics, the other rather social benefits, but they were all right. Maybe we didn't agree on the parameters, but let's forget it, it'll end the debate on the parameters at the moment of the law's approval, it's no use going back. But then almost nothing. After that, almost nothing. I think we might be ready to raise our hand for the 500 billion if the relief was in the hundreds of billions order. Madam Secretary, consider one thing. For the smallest companies, don't change the parameters. If we forgive it by the end of the year, it's 18 billion. for 88 per cent of employees. What we have for those three months, June, July, August, is about 4.5 billion. A month. If we agree and forgive them for the next four months, of course, with the amendment of the law and so on, it is not possible with the state budget, it is only 18 billion. But if we want to say that it should also be invested in people, in employees, to keep jobs, then these 18 billion that the state will not choose will find a good economy. The owners of these companies will know much better than any government with the money saved. They won't have to let go. They'll be able to write some rewards. They can buy something to revive the economy. That would be for an investment approach. [[14.50 hours]] And I'm asking the government to reconsider. In this astronomical increase, maybe there's 137 billion of expenses here. is 18 billion. less than 15 percent of that amount. You still have 37 billion in your reserve, that's half the government's reserve. And it would really help 88 percent of companies if I were to trust government numbers, and I believe them, up to 50 employees. That would be a good recipient of the 18 billion. Simple, easy, they wouldn't have to lay off, they wouldn't have to cut salaries, and I think it would be a good expense. If we criticize the government for not having a strategy, I think it's right to say what strategy we would have chosen if we had the majority. Madam Secretary said the opposition's proposals would cost 726 billion. 722,36 127 kroner exactly. [[The Minister of Finance states from the rapporteur's desk.]] Again, that's the number that fell from Mars. I don't know if it's right. I don't know if it's right or wrong. If we don't have individual lines and then the sum in Excel, I just don't know. I've noticed that the government is counting on helping to postpone taxes. Yes, in cash flow it is helping, but eventually taxes will have to be paid. Now the deadline is to be postponed until August 18th. I thought that July 1st would be more clear as regards personal income and corporate tax. It won't, I respect it somehow. Actually, Jasno won't be till the end of August. But it's already listed as help today, and it's counted. But that's just pushing the problem away. Only in August, or in August, will we know what real taxes were paid for both dependent activities and corporate tax. If we had a majority, we already have two VAT rates: 2110 - Support for the service sector, tax reduction. It is not that this does not appear on prices, I totally agree with it, I am not naive to think that if I lower the VAT rate, it will somehow significantly affect the end price, unless it is an extremely competitive market segment, but we would improve the economic results of those who are doing business, especially in areas that are affected by the most. Now I'm gonna go somewhere else. I don't like the benefit of a meal ticket in the long run, not because it's bad, but because it's the only benefit the employer doesn't pay for. For example, if an employer decides to contribute to supplementary pension insurance, life insurance, fifth week of leave, thirteenth salary, fourteenth salary, it all pays out of its own, and it's okay. It's between the employer and the employees. Food stamps are the only benefit when part of the benefit is borne by someone third - neither employee nor employer, but restaurant. That's not fair. It should be paid by the employer to the food service company. That would really be a benefit that the employer will give to his employees. Not that somebody else is paying for the benefit. I'm sure we can agree that the sector that has been extremely affected is restaurants. The government invents holiday vouchers, and actually cancels food vouchers. I think you couldn't find a worse time to cancel your meal tickets. I really think you couldn't find a worse moment. Even I'm not a fan of food stamps, but in this difficult situation, I'm gonna take the vouchers away from them so you can invent the vacation voucher elsewhere, the bath voucher, but the food voucher will be cancelled by the government. [[Minister of Finance - a comment from the rapporteur's desk.]] I read it, Madam Secretary. The government doesn't want to invest, the government wants to subsidize. I don't know why, but this government loves grant titles. How long it took us to convince the government to send money directly to the community. How long did the Minister of Regional Development say why, directly, I'll come up with great grant titles. So we're going to be developing a restaurant program to take something else from them in this difficult situation, such as food stamps, and at the same time we're going to invent support programs for them to possibly compensate for food stamps outage. I don't get it, Madam Secretary. It can be solved more elegantly, and it can be solved so that it doesn't turn out to be a burden on restaurants that are very hard hit by the fact that they haven't been able to do business for weeks or months. And now I'm not gonna talk about cities where there's high tourism. I'm talking about a normal town where the restaurant people actually live off the city's income. Of course, in cities where there is tourism, the problem is much more serious and much bigger, and there are no more food stamps. You can see for yourself how many tourists have decreased in Prague and how many sales have decreased in Prague. So we would introduce two VAT rates. We'd lower social security by 2 percentage points. All of them. Permanently. To reduce the cost of work, so that the number of jobs does not fall. We would encourage employees to support part-time jobs. [[employer]] Shared jobs we've approved here. That's not gonna work. I do not believe that it will work, that it will spread somehow and that tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of shared jobs will be created. It's so disadvantageous, without an incentive effect for employers that I don't think it's applied in any way in practice. But Minister Maláčová has fulfilled, she has made a pipe: I have promoted a shared job. But we don't encourage employers to offer short-time jobs at all. For example, what is the motivation for employers to employ two mothers who want to spend only part-time two or four hours instead of an eight - hour job? Nothing. You pay the same dues, you have twice the bureaucracy, two employment contracts, two attendances, two reports each month instead of one. So our next proposal was to reward another discount on social security, for example, for every hour of reduced time by half a percentage point of social security. This means that if I create two short-time jobs for one job, I have a higher bureaucracy with it, but I would save 2 percentage points of social security. This could be an incentive for employers to offer more such jobs. Of course, the abolition of a super-gross wage. We've been offering that to the government repeatedly. The third government already has it in its programming statement, and we haven't discussed it yet. And I've already talked about the social contributions for the rest of the year. So if you really look at these three novels rationally without a political shirt, you'll see how the government works with income and spending, so I think you need to confirm that the government is clueless, that it doesn't actually know what to do with it. She'll come up with a new grant title, another one. And I don't want to evaluate individual partial programs, but the "invest" password is really just a PR password, really nothing. Okay, so on July 8th, we'll approve 20 billion. increase to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Which one of us would be against increasing the transport infrastructure budget? I don't know a Member or a Member, not whether she's sitting in a government or opposition bench. But I'd like to ask Minister Havlíček - if he ever goes to the Ministry of Transport - to bring us on July 8th, which event with these 20 billion. He's gonna spend it this year. Not that 15 will be transferred to next year. I don't know. It's real to know in the middle of July that I have plus 20 billion.? Are these events competitive? Are they signed with suspensive effect? Really? Then why didn't we discuss it with the draft state budget? That would be supported by the opposition. My colleague, Mr Stanislav Bláha, who will be speaking shortly, tabled several amendments to the draft state budget, which added 10, 8, 6, 5 billion to the SFDI. What did the government say in December? No, there's enough, we don't spend more, we don't increase it. For the government to come in after six months and say no to 10, we'll give 20. When wasn't the government telling the truth? December or June? I don't know, I don't have a list of those projects in front of me. But I have serious doubts about the 20 billion. cannot be invested effectively this year. You can write it down, I'm pretty sure it'll stay until next year. But that's not how the government says it wants to invest. If we want to invest in this, we want to encourage consumption, these are the right targets, so let's leave money to taxpayers, cut taxes, forgive social security. This will be an impulse for the economy much stronger than what the government is doing so far. [[15.00 hours]] If it seems too gross to you, well, we're four months from March 1st, so let's at least have fun in which sectors we'll forgive the social security. If you do not want to scale down VAT, let us at least have fun in which sectors we will reduce VAT in order to encourage it. Or do you really think ministers and their authorities know better than taxpayers what to do with that money? I know the authorities love grant titles, polish clicks, colorful requests, more attachments. But that's not the way. That is the main reason why we cannot support this amendment. The number is horrible, it's gigantic, it's giant, it's the biggest, but it's not the biggest lack of material. The biggest flaw is that it points to the government's cluelessness, that it doesn't really know how to handle it and that the government is shooting blindly. Maybe he'll hit it. Let's make a wish. We all want the government to hit it, so that at least some of these programs can help the Czech economy, so that it doesn't hurt. We really don't want the government shooting next door. And if we don't have the numbers, there's an increased probability that they're shooting next door. When I was here at the first and second novels, I showed the secretary that she had the crystal ball and said 200, 300 - and in June she said 500. But when will it end? When does it end? I know the government is due to submit a draft budget by the end of October. But it's the end of June. Madam Secretary, you must have at least the basic parameters of next year's budget in your head. What's next year's deficit? 400? 350? Will we increase the debt from year to year by 50 percent against what we've had here in 30 years? I really don't understand. If there was a plan, a strategy, we could argue about it. I support these segments, I don't support these segments. There's nothing here at all. So cluelessness, autopilot, we don't know. I think the government doesn't know what's going on in the economy, and instead of waiting for the numbers at least for June and July, it says it's run out of money that it can't send the community $13 billion. So if I multiply it by a thousand or tens of thousands, then ask the mayor if he'll run out of money in June that he's not able to send somewhere 12 800 for a small village, or 1.28 million for a larger community, or 12 million for a large city. That's not true. I don't understand why you can't send 13 billion to the municipalities. You've got it all figured out now. You do not need this proposal in the budget for this. We didn't actually have a debate on the trial procedure this morning at the Grémium. As I was saying, we're definitely not gonna go into cutting up a bear, that we're gonna want to increase the expenses here, increase the expenses and increase the expenses. We think, and I would like it to be clear before the end of the first reading, if there are admissible amendments that will do something about the basic parameters. Because the only amendments we are prepared to put forward are those that either address the aid - but very often you need to change the law, that is, it is just a political declaration. In fact, we would do the same thing that I criticize the government for, take a digital tax and increase the VAT refund time, or reduce the debt, even if we can get back to it. I am almost certain that if we approve 500 billion on July 8, there will be two scenarios that either the government will come again, or the Prime Minister will use his favorite saying when the budget worked out well, for it was just a piece of paper, the result decides when the budget was 100 billion in addition to the plan. I'm afraid that might happen. So I would like the government to come forward at the latest at third reading with some clear economic policy, some clever plan to help the economy, preferably by letting the taxpayers have the money. To stop using the empty password - we want to invest. The numbers don't match. By the way, how much money do you think was added to the first amendment in March? Zero! How much do you think was added to the capital expenditure for the second amendment that was in April? Zero again! And how much do you think there is for capital expenditure in the original proposal without Mr Babiš's amendment? Zero! Three times zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. If that's all, I have two excuses here. Mr Munzar apologizes from 14:30 to 16:00 for business reasons. Vice-President Okamura also apologizes from 15 to 15.30 for work reasons. Mr Bláha is now here with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u45	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I promised I wouldn't perform anymore, but I can't do it on food stamps because I experience them every day. And believe me, all the decent companies that choose food stamps are looking forward to it when they're gone. I don't know if you'd like to keep your money in storage for a month. That's what it is when you take food stamps. I don't know if you'd like to lose 6 percent of your wages. And so it is within the food stamps. And I don't know if you'd like to spend a lot of time counting your paycheck for half a day. That's food stamps processing. It's an incredible job where on one hand you accept, stamp, count, take to whoever takes them, then wait a month for the money to shorten them by 6 percent. For me, it's about 700 to 800,000 a month on food stamps collected, and we're losing roughly 40 grand a month. But plus an incredible amount of time. And most importantly, you don't see the money for a month. I don't know a company that works in the hospitality sector that would agree with that, which wouldn't mind. Yes, there are companies that do business with them in black, which pay for other services. But these companies won't even admit what they did. And believe me, there's a really big percentage in hospitality. And it's only because of the state of our hospitality and food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. Mr Stanjura will respond to the factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u47	Madam Secretary says it'll be in a month. And I agree with that. But, Mr Blá, through Mr President, we actually agree with each other. I've criticized that it's a benefit that someone else carries. We are not at odds in assessing whether this is appropriate or inappropriate. I know, on the other hand, a sea of decent restaurant owners who are afraid of losing more sales at this time. So I said there's a better way to make this benefit really pay the employer so they don't pay anything, not 6 percent. [[unintelligible]] That can be solved. But I don't want to argue today, we'll save that for tax package number eight, or how many, I've already lost, how many tax packages were in this election... [[From the rapporteur's desk, the secretary responds.]] But late, we're gonna be under pressure again because we're gonna start sometime in July or September, so we're gonna be under pressure. I was actually criticizing the terms. Just so we understand each other. If you felt I was defending the current conditions, no. I have the same reservations you made here. But for tonight, I'd like to stop with the food stamps, please. That was actually the detail from the show I was talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. And Mr Bláha with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u49	I would like, through Mr President, to think about one issue. You want employers to reduce their employees' benefits by 10 percent? That's the price of pretty much all of it. Ten percent goes away. 2 % in purchase, 6 to 8 % in income. We're at eight by then. Plus the job that goes by. So really trust me, I don't know an employer who wants to give a benefit and lose 10 percent of the benefit. I just don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. We will continue with the general debate to which Mr Bauer is signed up. Mr Stanislav Blaha will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u51	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues, let me make a few comments on the amendment to the State Budget Act. Two months ago, the House voted for changes in the Bill on Rules of Budget Responsibility, and thus essentially loosened budgetary rules for itself, but also for all governments. I remember well that at that time the Minister of Finance repeatedly assured that changes were necessary due to an extraordinary situation and that the government would in no way abuse them. And, among other things, the secretary said - now I quote: It is obvious that the government does not want a blank check. - She also said, among other things: And there is no risk of erosion of consistent control over public spending in the Czech Republic. Only a few weeks have passed since then, and it is already shown how fatal the mistake was for the government of Andrej Babiš to nod to such a thing. Now the government is asking for a deficit of the state budget for - this has already been said here today - an incredible half a trillion crowns without giving a proper explanation. There is no evaluation of the current effects of the covid pandemic on the economy, if you look at the materials, there is no quantification of the government's aid and its effect, if you read into the documents, there is no relevant economic forecast of what will actually happen with this country, and there is no growing of basic items such as a fall in tax revenue. That's why I'm asking what else is this other than a blank check, Madam Secretary of Finance. If I stop at the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, then the government is limited to stating that social security premiums and contributions to the state employment policy have been reduced, which, according to the material, is due to the deterioration of economic development and the introduction of new aid for Antivirus type C. The proposal and the explanatory memorandum reveals nothing more about how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will manage the Ministry's resort in the coming months and with what outlook to be expected in the future. But with this pamphlet, the government did not come only to us, to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, because - it also fell here today - it does not want the money from us, from Members. The government has come today to ask all citizens of the Czech Republic for permission to borrow another CZK 200 billion. But the austerity report reminds me more of a situation where, in my opinion, a teenage son comes to tell his daddy for two hundred for a beer, perhaps you know it from a life in your families: Daddy, please lend me two hundred. - tatínek says, "What for?" - Well, we're going somewhere with the guys. - Where to? - I don't know yet. - Then what do you need $200 for? - Well, we're just going out with the guys... Well, we just need the debt of 500 billion crowns and that's it. I also have to smile that it worked so well on your crown that you may not have used 499 billion in your backpack, perhaps it might look better. Or I'll give another example that may be closer to Prime Minister Babiš. He has promised people from the beginning that he will run this country as a company. And he certainly has his experience with it, because he's a major businessman, and so he can definitely tell us what it looks like when a company like that goes to the bank to ask for a loan. I'd like to know, I've had my experience with that, too. Or when the board of directors goes to its owners and asks permission for the loan, it is also an interesting experience: how many papers you need to document, how many documents you have to submit, how many tables you have to present in both of these cases, estimates and other materials you are obliged to submit most of the time. Are we really supposed to believe that Andrej Babiš is running the state as a company when he wants us to tap 200 billion on the basis of several leaky A4 pages? And really, when I was listening to the debate today... The criticism on my part is not only about that - and I am well aware that many of the measures that we have agreed here in the past cost some funding. But if you look at every person in this country when they ask for a million crowns of mortgages, entrepreneurs who have been performing here, who are asking for one million crowns of loans for their business, what they have to do, what they have to do, what they have to do to get the loan, and you're asking for 200 billion here, and we practically have nothing to do with it. In závěr, ladies and gentlemen. Here in plenary, there are often words of responsibility from Members and Ministers. That word of responsibility here is very common. Citizens are supposed to be responsible so they don't end up on welfare, we often talk to them here. Citizens are to be responsible to avoid indebting themselves over their options and falling into debt traps - it is also very often mentioned here. But if the government wants responsible citizens, first of all, it should be responsible for itself. And that, in my opinion, is not what he's doing right now. What the government wants us to do now, and especially in what form it asks, is unacceptable to me, it seems extremely rude to me, and there is no way I can raise my hand for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. Mr Blaha will now be speaking, Mr Kupka will be prepared. Before Mr Blaha gets the floor, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes between 17 and 23 o'clock for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u53	[[From his cell phone, he's putting the sound of the alarm clock into the mic by the pitch.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u54	I'll ask for a smaller amount of sound effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u55	Dear Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues, forgive the unpleasant sound of the alarm clock, but I could not forgive the opportunity not to wake up the Prime Minister and the entire government. And he definitely didn't wake up from all this nonsense, lethargy, chaos and babbling that the ANO movement brought to the Department of Transport. For the second term, this resort is in the competence of ministers who are gradually appointed and dismissed by Andrej Babiš, and it reminds me a bit of the story about Grandpa who changed until he changed. It's really not about these things, it's about specific people, in this case, ministers. The resulting effect, however, is the same. The Ministry of Transport is currently in fact located without a minister. Although it is formally led by Minister Havlíček, but with all due respect to his abilities, I think the industry and trade department employs him so much that he really does not have time for transport. And another question I'd like to ask him at this point, how much time he's actually spent at the Ministry of Transport in the last few months. I think the answer can be suspected -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u56	Ambassador, I would like to ask you to look at the subject one step at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u57	But I am on the subject because I want to address the proposed change in the budget in relation to the Ministry of Transport. Quick recap. The YES movement holds all key resorts, which are absolutely essential for transport infrastructure since 2013, i.e. seven long years. For a long seven years, ministers have ruled the finance department, the local development department, of course the transport department and, last but not least, the environmental department. In addition, I dare say that he has a partner in the opposition and in the ODS, who will more or less support any proposal for legislation to speed up construction, and, of course, last but not least, a proposal for funds that would then be involved in this so that infrastructure takes a mile in the Czech Republic, so that we can catch up with all the countries surrounding it, for example. In the highway network much better than we do. Well, what are the results during the short recap? As I say, for seven long years, yes ministers in key ministries. And in that time, 38 kilometers of new motorways were built in the Czech Republic. 38 kilometers of new highways. I don't really count on it, because this is a modernization that was started before this era and it's really running and it can't be stopped. [[15.20 hours]] At the same time, it was possible to extend the period running from the moment the EIA was approved until the building permit was issued for 13 years. That's an incredible number. Imagine a long 13 years when someone would even think that they would like to put this or that construction into operation, and before they can get through to it, there will be several governments that, of course, may have other priorities. And thirdly, and in that we probably have a primate, we have managed to increase the number of different permits that are needed to issue a building permit, to 21, which really puts us at the top, infamously placing ourselves at the top of Europe. There are basically Romania and Moldova behind us. And when I look at the Prime Minister's amendment today, which concerns the transport chapter, of course, if I would like to evaluate it with great exaggeration, I must say that the Prime Minister's presentation of his own amendments is actually obstruction. But let's cut to the chase. What does the proposal bring? Of course, a 20-billion-dollar increase in the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure would probably not be supported by just a lunatic. I think we've already tried to do that in the approval of this year's state budget. I myself tabled several amendments that wanted to add money to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. What was the reaction? Of course, the proposals were rejected on the grounds that SFDI had enough money. Moreover, there is really no building capacity in the Czech Republic that could consume the money and build something meaningful for it. So my first question is, how is it that all of a sudden this capacity is here? And, of course, I wonder if there are any buildings that could be invested by the end of the year. This means that the buildings that are ready for implementation should have a building permit; they should, if possible, be competitive at this point in time so that they can be implemented. Twenty billion to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is really big money. And I thought at first moment that they should be used for all projects that ended in the current evaluation of projects of cities, municipalities and regions, from the state budget, from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure and ended in a footnote, but they are ready and can be realized by the end of this year. But if I quote from the Prime Minister's proposal, it is justified here that the strengthening of resources by 20 billion. for the construction and modernisation of railways, roads and motorways, these steps will be ensured by the Directorate of Roads and Motorways and the Railway Administration. And in this case, these are not already prepared projects of cities, municipalities and regions. I therefore ask the Prime Minister when we will get a list of all the events we can spend 20 billion on by the end of the year. Crowns. I'm afraid it'll turn out the way it always does. It is a meaningful item that cannot be doubted, should be approved, and will not be invested by the end of the year and then simply fork. If I wanted to be vulgar, I'd use a more physical term to eat. As regards the four-billion-dollar road support II. and III. Of course, the classrooms that they own and manage the regions there can be no more than an agreement and even a round of applause. But the problem is in the detail again. Every project needs to be prepared. So that the regions can count on them to carry out the actions and involve their own resources, i.e. There would be some synergy and multiplication of money for such investments, and they need to know about it in advance. It's happening here from year to year, it's really government charity if you want the Prime Minister's charity. If I wanted to paraphrase it again, it's a kind of tossed doughnut for which the governor must first bow deeply, and then, as explained by the Prime Minister, thank me. Thank you respectfully. It's like the Prime Minister's giving it away. But I don't know what it's about when he actually put all his assets into trust funds that don't belong to him anymore. He just doesn't have the companies anymore, as he often likes to repeat here. In conclusion, there are two options. Either there are projects to be financed from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, in which case I want to see their list. Or it's going to turn out the way I said it, it's going to be B-- the money is going to stay there, it's not going to spend it, and then it's going to go for a drive. To use the more decent fund. I'm afraid B is correct. Of course, I wish to all citizens of the Czech Republic and taxpayers that it was A. Experience, however, leads me to be cautious and cautious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u58	Thank you and now Mr Kupka in the general debate. Mr. Skopeček is ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u59	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I also want to pause on what is being presented to us at the moment for approval as a draft budget. One would expect, in such a situation after experience with the approval of all previous budgets, that it would be carefully assessed what the expected tax revenue is, that there would be an analysis of the really feasible costs, that in a situation more urgent than ever, this would also be given adequate greater attention. Instead, we encounter something that actually floats in the air, we don't know exactly what the items will mean. And what scares me is actually a huge uncertainty in proportions. In the middle of April of this year, in response to what was happening in the Czech Republic and still taking place, we came up with a proposal to ensure that the budgets of municipalities and cities can be strengthened as quickly as possible, as it is possible to invest there immediately. And if the government is serious about its promise to invest out of the crisis, this was a concrete, naturally substantial proposal to do so. And the government went over it on the spot. She said we can't do that. At the same time, it was 12.8 billion. Crowns. What's that compared to a half-billion? What's that compared to a half-billion? What a small part! Still, I couldn't. Until we had to come up with a lot of pressure actions to make it the right move and that the government would actually do so. But what does that say about the circumstances of the budget? That the government does not actually firmly control where the Czech Republic is going? Because if she knew, in custody of that proportion, immediate assistance that directly translates into viable investments. Besides, there's a promise of 20 billion. CZK for SFDI this year. How could funds be invested? Where are the events that are just about to begin to compete? It's not real. This would be real and it is real where, as in the case of regions, the activities are prepared, where the events are competitive, where it is possible to run it directly. Just as it is possible to run directly in municipalities and cities. I'm sure that's where the support's due. But what do you think about when the government's been stopping this proposal from the beginning to finally implement it, adding more points to it? That says something about the way the budget is prepared. And here I'm afraid that instead of really real sums, real amounts, it's working with something that really floats above us, or like a bubble, without actually being able to actually figure out what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to mean, what circumstances it's going to be, and who and under what circumstances it's going to be able to pay off such a huge deficit. Another question that would naturally be offered, not only in the exceptional situation, but under what circumstances, where the government, on the other hand, will be able to save. And when it may have also spared some of the current measures, because some of the expenditure in the previous period simply did not take place. We don't know that. There is nothing about how public administration and officials have been recruited by the government in recent years. Fifteen thousand clerk's seats. And the corresponding billions of money. How will the efforts to digitize the Czech Republic be evaluated? Where are the savings that the digitization is supposed to bring? None of this figures in the proposal. Instead, a proposal is presented that is non-transparable, opaque, uncertain. [[15.30 hours]] It is clear that, in addition to promising, it also creates a reserve - yes, a reserve for pre-election gifts. Exactly what meets the expectations of the left-wing budget. I'm thinking bonmot here: when something looks like a duck, it goes like a duck, it sneezes like a duck, so it's probably a duck, too. The Prime Minister would probably defend himself and prevent anyone from calling his government left-handed, but it's just like with the duck. At the moment when he presents a budget that walks like a leftist, he hovers like a leftist, so he will probably also be leftist. And it really is left-wing in that direction. That is why I am in no way able to support him. I will join those who raise their hand to come back and be redesigned, because the Czech Republic needs real, well-counted and arguments based on action to get out of the crisis. Not a kind of bubble that floats above us to conceal the fact that the government had already shown a dramatic deficit in February, historically the greatest. And this is another argument why we should be very careful about what the government is actually trying to do right now. Please, there's still time to pull the emergency brake and find a better one from the current situation. Discuss carefully what really can be set as a way to invest out of the crisis, not some kind of incomprehensible promise referring to investment plans, which maybe even the mayors don't know that halls are being built in their place. So please call for us to evaluate carefully all which way the Czech Republic really should go, what is real to do and what we can commit ourselves to as the House in relation to future generations, but also in relation to the current crisis from which we are to find a way out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Next will be Mr Skopeček, Mr Holomčík will be prepared. Let me introduce you to an apology. Mr Juříček apologizes today between 15.30 and 19.00, i.e. until the end of the negotiations, for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for your word. I'll try to be brief, yet I won't forgive myself for a few notes. Even the secretary wouldn't feel that a job had been done here today if she hadn't faced my notes, she couldn't have responded to them. However, I really think that discussing the historically highest proposal to increase state debt in the year deserves a careful debate. It deserves a careful parliamentary debate, and I think it is very good that, in the end, the state budget, or the amendment to the state budget, will be discussed as standard at three readings. It would be inappropriate for us to go through a historically highest increase in debt here at some kind of short reading. For many citizens of the Czech Republic, perhaps even for many of us, the amount of 500 billion is a difficult number, we can hardly imagine something below it illustratively, but it is good to calculate it on something much more illustrative. Just today we are discussing the proposal that we will owe every citizen of the Czech Republic, including infants, CZK 50,000 during the year. In just one year we will increase the debt to a citizen of the Czech Republic, including infants, including seniors, by CZK 50,000. The amount of 500 million for which the state budget is to be amended for this year is also 10 per cent of the gross domestic product of last year, i.e. the whole volume of what the economy produced last year, respectively. What citizens and companies produced, about 10 percent of the total volume, the government decided to indebt us, the Republic, the citizens. It is also one third of the revenue of the state budget, as it has been approved. Of course, this huge deficit reduces the room for manoeuvre for this government, but also for any government in the future, whatever the future crisis is, because we simply live in a market economy that is cyclical, where sometimes crises appear, both the economic nature and the health crisis that we are experiencing today can come. In short, the probability of a crisis occurring cannot be reduced to zero, and it can be expected that sometime in the future, hopefully in the far future, some crisis will come. And at such a moment, whether this government or I hope that another government, of course, will have a much smaller room for manoeuvre so that, like the current government, it can borrow to solve any economic crisis or any crisis that arose from any other problem, some other virus, however I do not wish any more to come to the Czech Republic. The problem with this deficit and high debt growth is that, of course, we are shortening the time at which we can consider our pension system to be sustainable. You know well that the biggest problem, the most pressing problem of public finance sustainability in the Czech Republic is population ageing, demographic curve. Demography is quite exact science and demographers together with economists can calculate how long the Czech Republic will be able to finance the ongoing pension system. koneckonců all, even in the Chamber of Deputies on the Committee on Budgets, we discussed such predictions, such estimates, in connection with what the National Budget Board counted. The moment we approve an unprecedented deficit of CZK half a trillion, we are, of course, dramatically shortening the period when the pension system in the Czech Republic will be sustainable. In other words, we are shortening the time when the state will still have to fund our seniors' pensions. Of course, this applies to today's middle generation, already people who are active today and will retire, so the moment public finances embark on the trajectory that the government has drawn with this deficit, their pensions are at risk. So we are not just talking about the annual deficit, we are talking about the fact that this annual deficit will have far-reaching consequences up to many years in advance, whether it concerns the space that the government will have available to deal with any crisis or to finance pensions. That's why I'm at an exaggeration, but I don't think it's that big of an exaggeration, but today he called it a black Tuesday of public finances of the Czech Republic. We know all sorts of black Thursdays, Fridays from when the stock markets were falling and there was a crisis, but I think it can be marked either today or sometime in a few weeks when we're going to vote definitively on the deficit, so that day, if it's Tuesday like today, it's going to be a black day for our public finances and for the beginning of their collapse. [[Noise in the hall.]] The government, Madam Secretary, argues in favour of this deficit that it wants to invest out of the crisis, that we have the deficit to increase investment and the economy is running.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u62	Ambassador, I will allow myself to interrupt you and ask for more peace in the room. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u63	Thank you very much. The government is arguing for this deficit... [[A silence.]] Mr President, it has not helped much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u64	I can hear it. So I'm gonna ask my colleagues to the right, especially...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u65	And I must say critically that it is on the right side of the political spectrum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request for peace in the hall, especially to transport, probably especially to the club... [[MP Skopeček: TOP 09 is the baddest.]] I wouldn't say that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u67	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your peace. For the third and last time. The government argues in favour of this deficit by wanting to invest out of the crisis. It's often repeated. If I wanted to borrow the Prime Minister's dictionary, I'd have to say it's bullshit. It's government bullshit, because a much more appropriate label would be that the government wants to prolong itself to growth. Because we're not dramatically increasing our investment here, we're very dramatically increasing our debt here. čili it does not apply that the government wants to invest from this crisis, but the government wants to prolong itself from this crisis. And the debt - a colleague from the top started me today...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u68	Please let us not communicate directly with each other, but through the microphone afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u69	Great. The government just can't invest. Just look at the numbers, the facts and the dates. If, in the right-wing government, under the government, when the Ministry of Finance was running the TOP 09, to stand up for it now, my colleague, in this crisis in 2009, the government was able to invest a total of 11.4 percent of the total expenditure, and this was a relatively deep crisis that came after 2008, the current government, although it had much better economic weather and relatively strong economic growth, never got to this value of the invested funds. In the current budget, which we last amended, where the deficit is even lower, it should be 10.7 %. So we haven't even gotten to the relative level of when those right-wing scramblers ruled here. So, on the one hand, you're calling them strangling that they've extended the economic recession, on the other hand, when you look at investment activity, relative to state budget spending, the government was much more successful. This huge deficit is hitting the eye not only with investments, not only with the amount of investment, but also with how much real aid has actually come into the economy. In the first few weeks and months, we saw a lot of press conferences where the Minister, Prime Minister, Minister of Transport, Industry, and I don't know what else Mr. Havlíček is minister, represented assistance of more than a trillion crowns. This really is a huge number, and it would make sense to you that the Minister here wants to increase the budget deficit to 500 billion, but from the more than a trillion aid to the Czech economy, in reality, in reality, in real life, as aid to entrepreneurs and other groups, to date, tens of billions of crowns or more. So on the one hand, we have tens of billions of crowns of real help to the Czech economy, on the other hand, we have actually a repeated increase in the deficit of over 100 billion crowns over a few months. Every crisis, though painful, is certainly an opportunity for us to learn from it, to remove what was wrong in the system, what did not work, to deprive the economy in our country of future periods, so that the next crisis may hit it a little less, or to minimize any likelihood of crisis. However, this budget has no such ambition at all. This is no modernization budget that would like to move the economy that would like to contribute to what the Czech economy and the Czech Republic need and, on the contrary, to cut off what hindered the Czech economy before any coronavirus appeared. It should be pointed out that even before the coronavirus, the Czech economy has moved beyond its peak in recent months, we have been on a descending stage of the economic cycle. After all, when we look at the implementation of the state budget for January and February, i.e. even before the coronavirus appeared, we could already see relatively poor news about how the Czech economy and especially the Czech budget are developing badly. The February treasury performance was actually the worst for the modern history of the Czech Republic, and this clearly showed that the budget for this year was not drawn up and approved in an appropriate optimal form. And even without the coronavirus, we would probably have a situation here today where, as opposition, we would push the government in the direction that the budget is falling into an ever deeper deficit, much greater than what it has been approved, and that we want a reaction from the government in terms of what it will do about it. However, the government's reaction did not come even after the first few months when the budget did not go well, unfortunately, it does not come today. What the government brings to the Chamber of Deputies is not the answer of an economic operator, an economist, to an ongoing or emerging crisis that it would like to say: I want to support this, I am doing such measures on the expense side, on the income side, by so much reducing or increasing taxes, by so much reducing or increasing expenditure in this and in this, because I think it will help the Czech economy in this direction to rise rapidly so that the recession is as short as possible. That is not the nature of this proposal at all. This proposal has the character of it - and I have already said it on the Committee on Budgets, and the Minister was not angry about it - I called it that the Minister came to us, actually came for the third time in the role of an accountant who, after a few weeks, had read new expenses, underlined it, numbered it, and as a waiter in the pub, brought us another bill. In my opinion, however, fiscal budgetary and economic policy cannot be done like this. When we look abroad and take an example from our neighbours, those after the first few weeks and months, when, like the Czech Republic, they helped the economy with direct aid - and they were able to do it faster, with smaller administrative barriers, and the help actually got to those groups faster than in the Czech Republic, where we discovered that we have a relatively dysfunctional rigid and rigid public sector, which is simply unable to manage and help entrepreneurs, it takes him too long to create unnecessary barriers and barriers to entrepreneurs. So if we look at Germany or Austria, we find that these countries are starting to take a different path, namely by reducing taxes. Austria reduces taxes on restaurants and things related to tourism, Germany even reduces its basic and reduced VAT for a limited period of time by the end of the year. Of course, with the aim of supporting household consumption. And I believe that, even in the Czech Republic, after those first weeks and months when we approved - after all, even the votes from the opposition - when we approved direct support and direct subsidies to entrepreneurs and the economy, which have shown that they have not quite arrived at those entrepreneurs, see covido loans and the like, so I think we should have learned from this. We should not invent other spending subsidy programmes because we simply cannot, or the government cannot create them to help this business quickly, and a much faster and more efficient path would be to reduce the tax burden. Because, and I have also said it here, the Minister is not only a record-maker and will not only become a record-maker in the amount of debt growth within one year for the modern history of the Czech Republic, but, in addition to this record, which is still waiting for us to vote this amendment, she has long been a record-maker in that we have historically the highest taxes, the highest tax burden, since 1993. So I think that the Minister could give up this record, that the record could be enough for her to be a minister who owes the Czech Republic the most, and that tax could be reduced. Both VAT and revenue taxes to support both natural persons and companies. If we are debating today an increase in the state budget deficit to a really huge CZK 500 billion, this cannot be done without at least mentioning another increase in debt, namely by the European Union, or today by the European Commission, which proposes a so-called recovery fund, which has renamed a fund for future generations, where the European Commission - and the Prime Minister - did not vet it at all at the last European Council - where the European Union plans to borrow EUR 750 billion for this programme and takes that money by borrowing it on the financial markets. What is new from the European Union is that, for these 750 billion crowns, which are primarily intended to finance the already indebted southern part of the euro area, the EU's Member States will vouch for these 750 billion euros, which will also guarantee the Czech Republic. So we, on the one hand, will be in debt directly in the form of increasing the deficit to a record of CZK 500 billion, and we will still be in debt by the European Commission, virtually. The EU, which will borrow EUR 750 billion for 30 years, and we will also guarantee these debts. So it also needs to be said, and the need to perceive this approval. [[15.50 hours]] I would like to call on the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia here - I had the opportunity to be on several television and radio shows with representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, where we discussed precisely the planned increase in the deficit of the Czech state budget, and during that discussion I recorded a very critical rhetoric from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which was very, very critical to the government, both the amount of debt and the way in which the Members present this proposal to us. However, it is probably clear to everyone today how the Communists will ultimately behave in the final vote. I would like to invite them to think about whether the half-billion Czech crowns and the hundreds of billions that the European Commission wants to borrow - I would like to call on the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia to try to think about it and to think about whether it is also necessary for the debt noose that the ANO movement is putting on our necks if the Communist Party wants to pull the noose and suffocate the Czech Republic. I think that the Czech economy is overworked by various regulations, a great administrative burden very much, that the crisis was an opportunity for us to relax these regulations so that we can unwind the racket so that it can breathe in the Czech Republic, not only to entrepreneurs, but to all of us better have a more functional, more efficient, smaller state. To that more respectable, smaller, more efficient state, there is no way that we are going to be indebted at this high rate. Surely it won't help if we just talk about investment, but there will be less investment in the finals than in the last crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. And now, Mr Holomčík, and Mrs Valachová will prepare herself in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like 500 billion in today's debate on the deficit. The koruna focus on one detail, which I consider very important. There was a 3 billion item in the draft state budget change. CZK intended as subsidies for state forests. And I'm not questioning the need for that money for the state woods. They're not in very good shape, and we're facing quite a large cruststorm. But I'm sorry about how we got into that state. I'm going to say a few numbers here. In fact, since 2014, at the time of economic growth, almost 26 billion were extracted from the state enterprise. Crowns. I'm going to say a few numbers just to figure out how it worked. In 2014, 6.5 billion were transferred to the state budget from the state forests. CZK - and this was at a GDP growth rate of 2.7 percent. In 2015, it was 8.2 billion. CZK for GDP growth 5.3 %. In 2016, it was 5.6 billion. for GDP growth of 2,5 percent. In 2017, it was 3 billion. for growth of 4.4 percent of GDP and in 2018 it was 2.5 billion. for growth of 2.8 percent of GDP. Fortunately, Minister Toman has thrown a pitchfork into this practice since 2009, and he does not count on the contributions either last year or this year. [[2019]] So it would just be an example of strange behavior if there wasn't the other side of the thing, and that's just the barking calamity, or that's when it was known. When between 2013 and 2015, the Forests of the Czech Republic imposed fines in the order of millions of crowns for at least 90 thousand. meters of cubic time unasanized barkworm of the affected wood, from which the barkworm spread to the surrounding trees and vegetation. The Supreme Audit Office (SAO), which presented its conclusions in recent weeks, noted that the barking calamity was already grazed in 2016, i.e. almost 10 billion have left the state enterprise since then, including 2016. Crowns. In 2017, it was probably in 2017, it was dissolved almost completely also the reserve for growing work, for the reconstruction of the forest. At a time when the calamity was proven, when the calamity was great and when everyone knew it would be a national problem. After all, in 2017, there was a review of the Czech environmental inspection, which pointed out, among other things, both the forests, both the company and the Ministry of Agriculture simply neglected the steps they were supposed to take to prevent the barking calamity, or at least to reduce its effects. It even turned out that there was a practice when so-called. the extraction method, i.e. the transport of unprocessed affected wood, spread the calamity throughout the Republic. So what does that mean? This means that the governments in which the YES movement held and held by the Ministry of Finance at the time of economic growth pulled 26 billion out of the state enterprise. CZK and during the economic crisis we will subsidize the company with three billion, and only this year. Other subsidies are expected for the next and for the next years. And why do I say that? For two reasons. First of all, this is such a major mess that it should always be said at every meeting, especially when we're talking about the state budget. Secondly, I think this points to the absolutely absurd practice of the finance department, namely their political representatives at a time of seven years of economic growth. It means that the 500 billion that we're talking about today aren't just caused by an epidemic, and I'm not questioning that it just brought quite a lot of costs, but it's not just that. It is simply because, at a time of economic growth, we have eaten through this growth, even in areas where it absolutely did not make any sense and it was not necessary. And that's what I wanted to hear today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u72	Thank you. Mr Blažek cancels his apology for this afternoon's meeting. Mrs Valachová and then Mr Blažek are now enrolled in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u73	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Government, on the contrary, I want to fully support the draft budget as supported by the government. There are three reasons. First reason. Thanks to the government and our rapid response, 350,000 people are not employed. 350,000 people have lost their jobs, they can go to their jobs, they haven't lost their wages, they can normally feed their families. On the contrary, 700 thousand families must have been affected by the fact that they are now taking 60% of their wages. Even so, they didn't lose their jobs. That's another almost 700,000 families that can function normally, feed their children, pay their bills. This was a huge thing that we had to do in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, when the economy shut down, and thanks to the government and support through Antivirus, we have a situation that these people are not at the offices of work, these people have kept their jobs and, of course, companies and our Czech companies have kept their employees so that if they stabilize, they can continue. So that's the first reason we're funding the deficit and what's definitely an asset to the Republic. The second thing we're financing with a deficit is that our companies aren't afraid to invest, to expand, to maintain foreign contracts, to be able to loan, to use bank guarantees at the banks. That's the second thing that's funded by a budget deficit. So it's also worth it. On the third point, why I will support the deficit, as proposed, and of course the budget deficit also allows our citizens and our Republic to maintain the level and quality of health care, social care and education, as people are used to. It also finances the deficit. That is the third reason why I will support the budget. I fundamentally reject that this would be a prolonged deficit, and I fundamentally reject that the government has eaten something. On the contrary, the government has saved jobs, saved people's living standards at this point, and, of course, we are not quitting. As far as economic policy and the draft economic policy are concerned, we will present them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u74	Have a good afternoon. Mr Pavel Blažek will now be the last Member to speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u75	Hello, thank you for your word. I'm surprised to myself that I'm going to the budget. I don't normally do that. I'm gonna try to talk about a little different things than numbers, investments, and those economic words. You know, there was a coup in 1989, so people started asking questions and speaking the normal language and asking themselves completely normal questions. For example, they buy something, if they can get in debt, if they have what it takes, if they have something to pay it off, and in Parliament, people watched the debates where the MPs fought for $5 million, the $10 million, and maybe $100 million. All of this led to the fact that the MEPs - and actually the citizens were watching - were aware that even the state was not bottomless, that it simply could not have enough money to pay and take care of everything. If I take the debate tonight, actually, whoever's watching it has to come to a completely different conclusion. It must come to the conclusion that the state is no longer about hundreds of millions, not even billions, just in some miraculous way, when it suits it, it finds an incredible amount of money. It's often here today that the debate is unprecedented. I don't think it is. We've been through the '70s and '80s called normalization, and sometimes it's called timeless. So I'm going to propose another term. It was a period of false carelessness. In fact, it consisted of living in some way, taking place in some cycles of conventions of the then ruling party, and the party in its own language, which I don't think even the party members could understand, actually said: we build, don't worry, we take care of everyone, we have everything. And the interesting thing is that even in the history of this party, which was powerful and controlled by the entire state, it always turned out differently. It turned out differently in the 1960s, when the period suddenly ended and it began to find out that the state just didn't have to do it in the dictatorship of the day, and the exact same situation occurred in those 1980s, when it was suddenly discovered that it was not so that the state had the money to look at it, and there was no need to worry about it. That it's exactly the opposite. And I'm very worried about what's going on here today and what the government's coming up with, that we're actually getting into this dangerous situation, that our citizens are getting back into this awareness that there's actually enough money, that when they get into some kind of trouble, well, the state will definitely find some of those resources, that it's just not a problem, and so while there was a time when they were fighting about whether or not there was a billion dollars to go to this or that, then today we're talking about trillions as if they were waving a magic wand. And here, please, I would very much warn both this government and all of us about this, because it is absolutely impossible for the government to take care of everything and everyone, and it's very dangerous if citizens start thinking that when they get into trouble, the government will always find some money to deal with them. I am very concerned that, unfortunately, by approving this debt and other debts, what we are calling a claim company will increase even more dangerously. It's actually that more and more people think they're entitled to it or that, and I'm worried that those who haven't applied those claims so far, when they said that they couldn't actually do it, we're not even gonna ask for it, so now they're gonna wake up suddenly and they're gonna repeat: Well, if there was a crisis and suddenly there were trillions, then they're definitely gonna find each other's problems again. So I have a problem with this budget, I would call it rather socially psychological. I don't think we're going the right way and that the government isn't actually saying who's going to pay it off, where the money is going to be taken, so actually our citizens - it starts all over again, starting with this kind of reliance that it's going to work itself out. If I were to quote a classic: There's nothing I can do, life is solving problems. The Lord created us as he created us, on earth as it is, and yet there are pandemics, there are different disasters. But it is not possible and it has never been in history for all these matters to be resolved by some kind of finance and some kind of government intervention. This target is unattainable, and I think the government will soon know. I remember today, that's what I was told in the past period about Mr. Babiš, and because she's nice - Prime Minister - I'll tell her, even if it's not true. In fact, when he was the Minister of Finance, he was seen in this House building running at night and cursing, I'd say, typical of him turning off the light bulbs, because it seems to him that there is too much light in the building. And the reverse position of Mr. Babiš is that suddenly a billion, trillions here, trillions there. So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to go back to the light bulbs in that sense, so that the chandelier doesn't really shine, when it doesn't, and at the same time we don't throw money away in a way where it really doesn't matter whether the light bulb is on or off, and maybe it won't be enough for it to shine again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u76	I now have one point of fact - Mr Leo Luzar. Mr Jan Volný will be prepared with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u77	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the liberty of responding to an honourable colleague through you, Mr President. The field trip he conducted here was very nice. I have listened honestly here to the debate about the budget and the proposals that have been raised here, especially from colleagues from the right, who, as opposition, see it as such a clear, hard and distinctive one as their duty. But I'm here to help myself out with my grandmother's words, who always said, and bread won't be cheaper anyway. I'm sure you all know this saying from your parents and grandparents. And bread won't be cheaper anyway. So let's just think about making the bread cheaper, because we at the KSČM really don't think that there are people here who live beyond the means that there are employees who have a lot of money and they can save money and they can enjoy what they've earned. But I think that there are all citizens of the Czech Republic, not only entrepreneurs who now feel certain problems, but especially employees, but also all those who have some limitations in their work and have deep pockets. Therefore, I would very much like this House within this budget, which has already been mentioned here either catastrophic or moderate, or exaggerated, or bloated, to really think that maybe one day after all these years we can say: and bread will be really cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u78	Now with a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, so far the last application. I ask the House for peace. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To all those who were told by my previous speaker that they had a deep pocket and he wanted to do something for them, I want to tell them all that he wants to do for them that he wants to borrow 50 thousand crowns from each of them, starting with a hundred-year-old pensioner, where at least half the time he can't tell us what he's borrowing them for. Do you really think, Mr Luzar, through Mr President, that the poorest and the weakest have the desire to borrow CZK 50,000 for purposes that even the finance secretary can't emasculate because she said herself she just can't do it? I heard it on those ears.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u80	Now, here is the factual point - Mr Leo Luzar. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. I'd just like to remind you, since I'm also an age-recognizant, my colleague through you, that I remember getting a voucher like that in my mailbox, how we're in debt and how he's going to fix it. And what was the result, we all remember. It's just not just about saying what's going to happen, it's about what's going to happen. And it needs to be looked at as well as how to get out of it. And once again, let's all try to make this bread really cheaper for 10 million citizens and not just for someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u82	Now, here's a point of fact, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u83	We all remember that bill, and after your vote, it's going to be 80,000 higher. This is what you want to do to the citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u84	Now, in the general debate, the rapporteur, Mr Jan Volný, will present the last application so far. I ask the House for peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u85	I warmly greet you, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President. I hereby ask you to reduce the time to discuss the first and second reading to six days after the Grémia club agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u86	For six days, i.e. a reduction of 54 days. Am I getting this right? [[Agreed.]] So 54 days to figure out right after. I will look around the hall to see if there is still interest in the speech in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Yes, Madam Secretary is interested. Will the rapporteur be interested, too? Mr. Freeman, I don't think you'll be interested. Will you be interested in the final word? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I promise everyone I'll be brief. At first I started all day by taking notes -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u88	Now, let me ask you to calm down, Madam Secretary is a lady so we can hear her. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I took notes of every speaker that I would react, then I got a little lost in it because the topics were repeated and we would have been here for a long time. So I won't respond to each and every one of you, address anyone. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I appreciate the debate that it was relatively, except for the minor exceptions, constructive, factual. Of course, I don't agree with a whole bunch of things that have been said here. She wasn't even offensive, I'm used to more, I guess I'm pretty bad-looking, so that's why. Well, I would -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u90	I'm gonna ask you to calm down one more time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u91	I would like to say that the $500 billion deficit must be perceived by the optics of what the state budget is bailing out. That means he's remediating not only what we've been talking about for the past few hours, but he's bailing out a fall in income and increased health expenses. Consider that the payment for a state insured person has been increased at a record rate, this year it is a payment that will be increased by 26.5 billion, and this House has decided on it. It also covers part of the fall in the revenues of local authorities, whether it is the planned compensation to municipalities, the current planned increase in expenditure on roads II. and III. classes, but also indirectly, helping employers, self-employed people in the regions, promoting spa and other programmes on which the government works at various departments, which, of course, maintains employment and consumption in the region. Of course, this also increases the RUD and higher revenues from the RUD, which also go into shared taxes. It is also the case with entrepreneurs, self-employed people, households. This means that the $500 billion deficit is likely to correspond eventually to the general government deficit, but I am unable to confirm or refute this at the moment. There's been a lot of talk here about public finances. We didn't make a macroeconomic prognosis this time. I have explained this several times, we will do it on 10 August, then the last beginning of September, and there will be a standard legislative process and a standard budget approval process 2021. There's gonna be a debate for weeks. I am pleased and thank this Chamber of Deputies for agreeing to postpone the timetable, but this is not really possible at the moment. If I go back to public finances, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u92	Now, I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down, because I don't think the secretary can hear herself anymore, so please let the secretary speak in peace at the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u93	OECD issued several charts a week ago or 14 days ago. The first one did not please me because it estimated the fall in GDP growth in the Czech Republic as the fifth worst, to minus 9.6% of GDP. This, of course, is not a comforting message, although it also said that growth in 2021 would be 7.1 plus, which, of course, I wish. Both, as one seems very negative, the other is very positive. But at the same time it issued three charts, where it estimated the state of public finances in the Czech Republic and the level of debt for 2020. And she estimated it - even though the debt ratio is growing in our country, it still gives us the third lowest debt within the graph that it has presented, which is consistent with the fact that we would have the third lowest debt in the EU, and remains with us even after the increase, which is a clear sign that all countries are going this way. They're on their way to borrow, to get in debt. But by coming out of very healthy public finances, from a very good structural balance, we've created structural surpluses, and that's why we're still keeping that position. The third graph is not directly related to the budget, although indirectly yes, it recognises our lowest unemployment within the European Union. The fact that we said we wanted to invest is not an empty word. We consulted with our colleagues, consulted with the Minister of Transport etc., Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, that is, the increase corresponds to the real state. Let us remember that there has been a fall in private investment. This means that it needs to take more public sector to help regions, cities, municipalities. And that number - Mr Skopečka - for 2020 after an increase to almost 200 billion is 10.6 percent of the total expenditure, which is the highest figure so far since the year, as I quickly look at my tables, since 2027. I've actually done it several times before, but I can't say from that spent government budget reserve, and I don't know if you'd be able to do that, what you think is wrong. The government's budget reserve, which accounted for 78,8 billion, is a targeted programme of employment support, Antivirus, MPSV - 2,9 billion, or protective aids - less than 12 billion, which, of course, went to the regions and the private sector at the time, we didn't charge it to anybody, financing social services - over 5 billion, COVID, rent, etc. There just isn't an item that this government wouldn't stand for. Even the debt of state hospitals. 'Cause when else is it gonna be done now? And I'm sure they've exhaled these state hospitals and they can focus on other things. [[16.20 hours]] An amendment has been criticised here. We have complied with the criticism that was made at the meeting of the parliamentary parties, and after the negotiations with our fellow ministers, we have simply tried to make the most of the sums, of course the sums remain there, we are working on a number of subsidy programmes. Whether it was the promotion of tourism, the promotion of accommodation capacities. Yesterday the government approved support for the creative industry, of course waiting for money. And a number of other entrepreneurship programmes, but, of course, also in the public sector, where we count on the support of health professionals, we are counting on the support of these areas and we must have sufficient reserves there. She finally made that reserve of 36 billion. The question is whether it's going to be that high, because the fall in income is just an estimate. And my last point is, don't hold me up. I'm intrigued by Chairman Stanjura. He said the help was supposed to be quick, it's supposed to be massive, and it's supposed to be smart. I'm not saying everything was the smartest thing we did. Definitely not. That would be without humility and without admitting any mistakes, and that would not be right. I'm sure there were things we could have done better. We could have thought them through more. The excuse for us is that we did it in a very short time. But I stand by the fact that the support was fast, it's fast, and it's massive. And we need money for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u94	Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? You don't. [[Member Kalousek reporting.]] Mr Member, you are applying to a factual but preferential right, because we have already closed the general debate. So I'm gonna read the apology first, because we're coming to a conclusion, and then you're gonna get the priority word. So between 16.00 and 23.00, Mr Jan Richter apologizes until the end of the meeting for reasons of employment. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes between 16.10 and 23.00 for family reasons. Mr Zdeněk Podal apologizes from 16.00 a.m. to the end of the session for working reasons. Now, with priority rights, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u95	I'm sorry I pressed the de facto one first, because I don't want to exceed the de facto remark limit. Just a reaction to the Minister. If the reaction were really fast and massive, there was more active aid in the economy today than 51 billion, which is about 17 percent of the government's promise. So the reaction was neither quick nor massive. And if it were fast and massive, I would really raise my hand for the quick, massive and one-off aid for the $500 billion deficit. Crowns. If it were obvious what it was for, it was fast, it was massive and, above all, it was a one-time thing. But you're releasing the deficit into long-term commitments. So, Madam Secretary, you'll surprise us pleasantly if you don't say 400 in August, but only 300. And even the 300 will be a crime. And you won't say less than 300 in August. And what you will approve today is not just about today and the 2020 deficit, but about the 2021 and 2022 deficits! And I repeat again, I am convinced that the Minister will say 400 in August. If he doesn't say 400, I'll be pleasantly surprised. [[He speaks strongly, emotionally.]] But even if he says 300, it'll be a crime! And this crime is already being committed by the government by this deficit! And just you, you don't have... I'm sorry, I don't want to say you don't, because you haven't voted yet. But I call you to elementary responsibility for children. Just this country can afford 500 billion deficits this year, but it can't afford 500, 400 and 300. You want to destroy this country if you want to go on this trajectory! And I'm begging you not to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-23-ps2017-052-01-001-001.u96	So the final words have now taken place, so we will vote on the first of the proposals. I'm gonna sing. [[Checkout request.]] So, yes. I'll check you out, sign up again with your voting cards... I think we all signed up for who could. So I'll tell you what we're going to vote on. We have here Mr Kalousek's proposal to return the proposal, so he has proposed a work-up. The same proposal was also essentially made by Mr Bartošek and Mr Klaus. Mr Kalousek added it to the motion for a resolution which, however, cannot be voted on because we cannot vote on the resolution on this point. Anyway, I've been asked, so I'm just gonna read it, so the MP... The Chamber of Deputies returns the Government's proposal for an amendment to the 2020 State Budget Act to recast - with some recommendation. It's short, I took a look at it too. Expenditure cut by 80 billion. CZK, balance reduced by 80 billion. CZK, revenues left to the proposed amount, proposal to supplement the macroeconomic framework, deadline 20 days. Signed M Kalousek. So we all know what we're going to vote on. Yeah, it was accurate. So I think I can start the vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of returning the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 160 Members registered, for 50, against 86. The motion to return was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. And I ask - does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see any motion, so we'll proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote now. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 161 Members registered, for 161, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Well, I don't see a suggestion. So we will now proceed to the last two votes. First of all, it is both proposals to shorten the time limit for discussion under Section 91 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 and 3. First of all, Mr Bartošek's proposal was made here to reduce the deadline by 50 days. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number six, 161 Members signed up for 28, versus 16. The motion was denied. And now we have a second proposal, and that is the proposal by Mr Jan Volný, to reduce the time to discuss 54 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 161 Members signed in, for 127, against 28. The proposal to shorten by 54 days was accepted. And so we have now discussed, honourable Members, the 52nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with, and so I will see you next week.
