ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u1	8. Government information on climate protection We interrupt this item in the general debate on 27 March 2019 at the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask that the environment minister Richard Brabec and Mr Dana Balcarová, who is also the rapporteur, take the seats at the rapporteur's table. We will continue with the interrupted general debate, where Members of the Zahradník, Kopřiva, Balcarová, Gajdůškovášková came forward. And I will ask Mr Jan zahradník to take the floor in the general debate on paragraph No. 8. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u2	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the atmosphere that preceded the negotiations that we actually concluded, or interrupted more than one year ago, in March 2019. I must say, it was a different era of history. At that time, the main drivers of the events were children's demonstrations of Fridays for Future, which were often held in Malostranské náměstí in front of the House building. A young girl named Greta Thunbergová was the main spokesperson for the world's media and politicians. On the basis of the demonstrations and the pressures they caused, we have placed on the agenda information from the government on climate change or climate protection. That's when we got the information in some form. We started to have a discussion with her, and before she got to me in that discussion where I had my discussion performances, things had stopped and things had happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u3	Mr. Ambassador, I would like to interrupt you because you speak loud and clear, but I do not think that the noise and noise in the hall are appropriate for us to discuss this point in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Where was I? Yes. In the meantime, things happened. The European Commission took the issue very proactively, actually started to prepare the Green Agreement for Europe during 2019, which was introduced by President von der Leyenová at the time in December 2019. At that time, the European Commission had no priority but to be a leader in the fight against climate change. And there was no more important material and more important document than the Green Agreement for Europe. This continued in January 2020. A communication from the European Commission has been sent, and we have also received it to the Committee on European Affairs, where I was designated rapporteur for that communication. [[16.20 hours]] But then a coronavirus pandemic broke out, and the European Commission, somehow due to some inertia for a few weeks, perhaps a month, still considered the Green Agreement to be the main issue, the world's main central point, and somehow it did not notice the pandemic. I had a performance prepared at the time, in which I turned to those demonstrating children, I wanted to ask them whether they were able to limit in that March 2019, to renounce flying aircraft, to renounce expensive or, therefore, expensive, fashionable maybe cheap, but fashionable goods imported in giant container ships from China. This is all passé. It's a different time, it's a different era. Flying is limited on its own by nature. Today it's five percent, ten percent, and years between metropolises, between continents it seems like it's from another world. Other things came to us from China, or other things than expensive goods, and on the contrary, states began to think that not only the expensive goods, but also other things prefer to make themselves. I think that a number of things show that there is a need for a great deal of understanding, but I fear that is not the case. I'm watching the European Commission, after it's been a little bit tweaked out of the original shock that missing the beginning of the pandemic meant to her, so she's starting to go back to these green activities, the Green Agreement, as if nothing had happened. I think it happened, and I'm ready here some things, simple in total, to present. The Mantra of the whole Green Agreement is, in fact, energy. I know that's not all, but we have to ask where we're going to get energy after all the restrictions we're going to have. I'm here to prepare a few things, a few such questions to just produce energy. So what's the deal with energy efficiency? Energy efficiency is built as a very important tool to reduce energy consumption. And historical experience has shown that this is not the case since the mid-19th century. It turns out that if we increase the efficiency of a resource, this causes an increase in demand and, in turn, the consumption of the commodity that the efficiency is supposed to save. It's an insight associated with English technician and physicist Jevons as Jevonsův' paradox. Thus, subsequently transformed into a more modern version, that improving energy efficiency economically justified at a microlevel leads to a higher level of consumption, therefore, of energy at a macro level. Which means we can try to increase efficiency, I don't know, engines, light bulbs, that's where it turns out, and it doesn't create a desired reduction in energy consumption. On the contrary, it will bring about an increase. So watch out for it. Ways to hell paved with good intentions. As is the case with the lack of legitimacy of renewable resources. They're like canons, like some kind of dogma, called non-emission renewables. Wind power plants. What, then, about wind power plants and their lack of competence? Of course, their own production does not generate any emissions at any time. The wind blows, it spins the turbine. She's spinning some kind of generator, and it's generating energy. But we just have to realize that for one wind plant, namely VESTAS V90, which has a rated output of 2 megawatts and an annual product of 3.6 gigawatt hours and can be purchased at 80 million, 300 tons of steel and 1000 tons of concrete are consumed. Why don't we say we replace this power plant with a year's production of Temelín? That's 14,000 gigawatt hours, as we know. Maybe I'm a little confused about the gigs, the terra, the megas. Gigawatt hour, so we just know that a watt hour is power per hour. A hundred light bulbs consume energy of one kilowatt hour per ten hours of lighting. Kilowatt hour, that's the unit in which the energy supplier calculates the energy for which we pay as a unit price. So if we wanted to replace this production with these wind power plants, we'd need 3,900 of them, so we're going to find out by simple division. Twenty-five thousand were consumed at the Temelín plant. tons of steel and 300 thousand. tons of concrete. So the 3,900 wind power plants, the windmills, would require us to make 1.2 miles. tons of steel and 4 million. tons of concrete. So it would be fifty times more steel and fifteen times more concrete than it was spent on Temelín. Let's just remember what the numbers are, what we're talking about, when we're saying with a pretty light heart that we're going to replace energy sources with renewables. What about the photovoltaic power plants, the solar sources? The annual production of photovoltaic power plant is roughly half a gigawatt hour per hectare, so to replace the 14,000. A gigawatt hour of the Temelín nuclear power plant, we'd have to install those photovoltaic panels at 28,000. hectares, 280 square kilometers. And that's bullshit, isn't it? That's what we're talking about here about soil protection, which is probably what all the landowners would have driven us out of here. Let's say, well, let's put them on the rooftops of the house. That's a reasonable thing to do, and I agree with that. Anyone who wants to place photovoltaic panels on the roof of the house buys a smart device that accumulates energy and then distributes it around the house. It's okay. I'm just saying, according to the 2011 census, we have 1.5 miles. Inhabited houses and we have about 200 thousand. The apartment houses, so if we put the photovoltaic panels on all the roofs, we get about 15 percent of the energy production we produced in 2018, i.e. just 15 percent of the consumption. I'm gonna go back to that citizen who's gonna set up those solar panels and set up that smart storage and distribution device. Of course, he expects that if the sun doesn't shine for some time and the battery goes out, he'll use the van from some central network where some big power plant runs to replace his instant blackout. The costs of producing energy from renewable sources are described by different parameters. One of them is called. comparative cost of energy, leveled cost of electricity. The ratio between the total cost of the source, investment and operation divided by the quantity produced over the lifetime of the power plant, the source, so here's the data. Brown coal 6 cents, i.e. here it is in European currencies per kilowatt hour, wind power plant inland 7 cents and photovoltaic steam gas 11 cents. So, of course, it's in favour of the brown coal. But we have to say that brown coal is the fuel of the past, fuel of the 18th, 19th and part of the 20th century, we're going to have to get rid of it, that's for sure. Now it's just a matter of replacing the resources. [[16.30 hours]] He still has a slightly modified parameter called value-adjusted LCOE, a modified parameter which also accounts for the cost of stability of supplies, i.e. when it doesn't shine, doesn't blow, and therefore when a spare source has to run. So it's already much worse there, and of course the efficiency and attractiveness of these resources is suddenly disappearing. The yield ratio, the energy performance parameter, how many times more energy during the lifetime will the source produce than it was spent on its construction during its entire operation and also - beware - of complete liquidation. For coal power plants, it is 120 to 140, or 120 to 140 times more energy will produce that source than it needed to be spent on its acquisition, operation and disposal. For fans, it is 12 to 30 and only 2 to 5 for photovoltaics, clearly to the detriment of those renewable sources. When we translate it into an understandable language, renewable resources simply cannot function and produce an effect without being massively supported and subsidized from taxpayers' pockets, perhaps to the billionth extent that we are seeing today when we have to put 40 billion on renewables every year, which is projected at energy costs. Even to store electricity, because renewable sources cannot properly exist without saving the energy they produce and pumping from the battery at night or the next day when the wind is not blowing or the sun is not shining. It can be calculated that hourly consumption - we are based on those years we plan to end coal, 2030 to 2040 - so there is 80 terawatt hours, if we simply divide it, it is 9,000 MWh per hour, i.e. average hourly consumption is 9 000 MWh. The largest energy storage battery in Planá nad Lužnicí has a capacity of 2.5 MWh and costs 75 million. CZK, or we would need 3,600 of these deposits if we just divide it by the calculator. Multiplying, we're going to find that their price would be 250 billion. Crowns. So storage capacity for one hour of total outage of all renewable resources, if we didn't count coal and core that it's long gone, it would cost a quarter of a billion, four hours of trillion, six trillion for one day. Our budget, we know it's about 1.5 trillion, or four budgets. I say this so that we realize that when we simply talk about replacing resources with other sources, those new, progressive renewable resources are burdened with such problems that are not spoken of publicly. I'm not anti-voltaic. I'll just remind you that in addition to photovoltaics, all forms of energy production use an ancient way of turning a turbine that spins a generator. How the turbine spins, whether by steam obtained by burning, that it heats in the boiler by burning coal, or by steam that heats up a nuclear reaction, or by water from some dam, or by the wind that blows around the mast, but it's still the same principle. Photovoltaic is a new principle that is out of line in this mechanical way, so it should be very promising. Unfortunately, he seems to have a number of problems that we should be dealing with. And I think it would be worth encouraging science to finally look for some new way of generating energy to solve these problems. One last thing I'm gonna say about biofuels. Also, evergreen, it's still dragging around, we haven't been able to cancel it in the last parliamentary term, the support. Server auto.cz says that biofuels have so far brought profits to farmers, that is true, poor countries hunger and poverty, scientists of doubt and motorists destroyed cars. What about the second generation of biofuels? What could the second generation of biofuels be made of? What can we have at our disposal? Well, I guess it's some kind of splinter, maybe some garbage, some smear grease, a spilled frying oil somebody's gonna collect. That's the cadaver fats. I'll just give you an example. We've got about 1.5 miles here. head of cattle and 1.5 miles. pigs. That's what we kept here in 2017 according to statistics. If we have, say, an average weight of 500 kg in cattle, for a pig of 100 kg, I assume it has 5 percent useful fat, which is information from the University of Agriculture in Prague, we get 42,000. tons of the raw material available. With 80 percent yield, we could make 34 miles out of it. quarts of biofuels, which is less than 1% of the 6 billion litres of diesel consumed annually in our country, so that it is just the symbolic incorporation of what the European Commission requires of us to do just to make sure that their regulations are satisfied. So nothing at all that could save our energy. The wood chipper - I'm not even gonna read it, 'cause it looks like this whole crusty calamity is changing the parameters of these things. But once again, wood chips could be enough for 4.8 percent of oil consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, the Green Agreement promises to save all of this. The Green Agreement for Europe, the main theme of the new Commission under the direction of President von der Leyenová. I think it's a list of the Commission's wishes. The Prime Minister is quite critical of this, even here in the House, criticizing the Green Agreement in our European Committee today, saying that he will not allow himself to impose on himself any things that should threaten our economy, he does not want to be brought down to the fanatical green measures that should put our industry at risk, but all of his MEPs for YES, along with the MEPs for TOP 09 and the Pirates, were in favour of the European Parliament's resolution on the Green Agreement of 15 January, which is the only document voted on. Otherwise, the Green Agreement is a communication from the European Commission, it is a non-legislative act on which neither vote nor sign up anywhere, nor can it be applied for or unsubscribed. But this resolution is a matter of fact. The first is that there is an increase in ambition, i.e. a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 50 per cent by 2030. What a mess! I think that needs to be defended. As far as the supply of clean available energy is concerned, the key role in the Green Agreement is attributed to renewable resources, in particular, here they write wind energy from offshore marine areas of offshore, wind power plants. We don't have any coasts with us. There is no mention of nuclear energy in the Green Agreement, which is not mentioned at all, that it is a resource that could be considered as an emission-free resource to save European energy. On the contrary, there is talk of decarbonisation of the gas sector. [[16.40 hours]] It is to be an activated industry under the Green Agreement for a clean circular economy. That's a nice resolution. We are now dealing with waste laws, where the circular economy is also our goal. It is calculated very simply by 2030 in the Green Agreement with zero carbon steel production. I suppose that means making it electrically. But nowhere is it said how this will affect the energy consumption, what an increase in consumption this will cause. The renovation wave of public and private buildings is expected. Which, of course, is nice, but what if someone doesn't want to keep their building warm? He's got an old house that, if he warms him up with the polystyrene, it's gonna rot. The transition to intelligent and sustainable mobility is another password. Here I have to say that I would be very welcome to join in supporting the transfer of a significant part of inland freight transport from roads to railroads and waterways. It would certainly be worth supporting here, and I am very much in favour of this, and I have always supported it in my life as a politician. However, Green Deal wants to introduce stricter standards for emissions of air pollutants by vehicles with an internal combustion engine. Even tougher. It's like these car companies aren't able to fill it anymore. The introduction of EURO 7 - they want to have transitional mobility with zero emissions from 2025. Which, of course, threatens our automotive industry completely. I just have to ask how, then, the electric cars that the Commission probably assumes are going to drive us or ride the roads will get the energy in which the power plants are going to be produced. We still produce 48 percent of our energy in coal power plants. The Commission is considering EU ETS road transport allowances, i.e. the charging of diesel and petrol for internal combustion engines with an allowance load. Another power surge. There is talk of a strategy "from farmer to consumer" - Farm to fork, as has been said here somewhere today. However, it does not say anything about the double quality of food and the problem that we believe should be addressed here. The scope of the area cultivated under organic farming is to be increased. Nothing is said about this organic farming being existentially dependent on subsidies, of course. How are they going to finance all this? So it is said in the Green Agreement that achieving the current climate targets is worth something, and the Green Agreement will require an additional annual investment of EUR 260 billion. That's equal to 6,7 trillion crowns. Where are they gonna get the money? We have heard and discussed this on the European Committee today, we have discussed that the European Union wants to have its own tax collection. Of course, unacceptable to us, we don't know any hidden treasure anywhere. Maybe the Commission knows about him. But just CZK 6.7 trillion for the whole of the European Union every year means very important money. I understand that the Just Transition Fund, the Fair Transformation Fund, could be interesting to us, which could mean some revenue for us to finance our actions under the green policy. The question is whether they will not be taken from the volume for cohesion policy. The Committee on European Affairs, as I have already indicated, has dealt with this and discussed the documents relating to the Green Agreement at its meeting 29. 4. The first such document was the communication of the Green Agreement for Europe - that is a legislative act. On this point, the Committee on European Affairs adopted the following opinion and adopted the following resolution: The Committee discussed the Commission communication Green Agreement for Europe. First of all. Secondly, he appreciates the framework position of the government of the Czech Republic. - Here I must say that the Czech Republic is quite reasonable about the Green Agreement, and therefore the committee appreciated the government's framework position. Who cares, he will surely find the government's framework position on the pages of the Committee on European Affairs. We have the whole document, including the resolution, including the quotations from the framework position. The Committee also points out that the transition to low-emission electronics must not have a long-term negative impact on the economies of the Member States, the competitiveness of their industry, in the social field and must not jeopardise their security. Furthermore, it calls on the Government to initiate a revision of the ambitious objectives of the European Union in the area of the transition to the climate-neutral, sustainable and circular economy contained in the Green Agreement for Europe. Fifthly, it asks the Commission to revise the ambitious objective of achieving European Union carbon neutrality by 2050 and how it can be achieved. And, of course, he continues to instruct the President to communicate this to the President of the Commission, and he is making this communication known to the Economic Committee, the Committee of the Regions, as well as to the Committee on the Environment and Economic Committee. Another message we were discussing at the time was the Green Agreement Investment Plan for Europe, i.e. how to meet the dream goals economically. We have again adopted a resolution where, firstly, we have stated that we have discussed the Commission communication on the Green Agreement Investment Plan for Europe. We have taken note of the government's framework position. We have noted that the Commission Communication mentioned above, the Investment Plan for Sustainable Europe contains only vague identification of resources to implement the objectives of the Green Agreement for Europe. The too ambitious objectives set out in the document are not realisticly financially covered. Thus, the entire Investment Plan for a Sustainable Europe cannot be considered realistic and feasible. Four. In principle, the European Committee does not agree with the possibility of introducing the EU budget's own resources from non-recyclable plastic packaging waste and revenue from the auctions of allowances under the EU emissions trading scheme, and with the use of flexibility in the rules for coordinating Member States' fiscal policies to promote investment in a climate neutral economy. [[The Stability and Growth Pact]] They also fundamentally disagree with the introduction of so-called green bonds and other efforts to threaten the stability of the financial sector and give priority to green criteria before standard financial indicators and parameters. Fifthly, the Committee on European Affairs believes that it is necessary, in order to jeopardise the competitiveness of European economies and the lack of funds in the public and private sectors, to reject and significantly rethink the Green Agreement for Europe and its follow-up Investment Plan for a Sustainable Europe to a costly transition to carbon-neutral EU. Once again, the Committee authorised the Chair of the Committee to communicate this to the President of the Commission and to forward the resolution to the Economic Committee for information, inter alia, to the Committee on the Environment and to the Committee on Economic Affairs. Colleagues, colleagues, I apologize for reading this to you in such a lengthy manner, but I had to do this because the Rules of Procedure of our House in Section 15 of 109 of the European Union's Rules of Procedure say that the draft acts and other documents of the European Union are being discussed without undue delay by the Committee on European Affairs on the basis of the preliminary opinion of the Government. That's what happened. The Committee on European Affairs may refer such a proposal to another committee in substance and may at the same time specify the date by which the proposal is to be discussed. It all happened. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 then says: "If the resolution is not in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c) be placed on the agenda of the nearest meeting, or if the House has not decided to do so in accordance with Article 54 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 and 6, shall be deemed to be the expression of the House. None of that stuff in the par. 4 § 109a above did not happen. [[16.50 hours]] So the resolution I have read to you here is now considered to be the House's statement. It is therefore an expression of the House. So the House has already expressed its views on the Green Agreement by the mouth of the Committee on European Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I am sorry that I have spoken so lengthyly, but I must say that the main substance of the matter, the fact that the European Committee has such competence under the Rules of Procedure, which it has of course used, is extremely important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u5	Thank you. The President of Farský shall speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw up a motion for a resolution that I have also taken the liberty of handing out at least one per club on your tables, but it is not so long, so I think it can also be recorded in voice. The resolution is therefore: The Chamber of Deputies - and so on - asks the Government to submit by 30 September 2020 to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a timetable for the project preparation procedure and the deadline for the launch of decisive measures to implement the concept of protection against droughts for the territory of the Czech Republic. This may seem to you to be such a bumpy and machined, but I am here based on the position report of the Interministerial Commission Water - drought in 2019, which on page three states that, in order to achieve a positive shift in the implementation of the concept, it will probably be necessary to approve by the government a binding timetable for the project preparation process and the deadline for the launch of decisive measures, namely organisational, technological, technical and legislative measures, which will be implemented in a time-frame according to the specified scope. In this way, a change in the current trend can be achieved in the approach to realization, but also in the perception of drought and water shortages, because during the water welfare period in which we are living, the proposed measures are hardly being prepared, let alone implemented. The timetable for the project preparation procedure and the deadline for the launch of decisive measures should be discussed in both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic so that it does not exceed the length of the parliamentary term. This motion for a resolution is therefore entirely in line with the government's material, which gives this as a recommendation for further progress in implementing the concept. What I added is the date of September 30th, but since this material is already a week or a month approved, I assume that this schedule, as recommended here, will be nothing new. And it is necessary for us, because then the discussion about what is done, what is not done, what should be done is, of course, far more effective, more funded and meaningful in the finals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u7	Thank you. I'll read the apologies before I give the floor to Mrs Dana Balcarová. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes today to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Jan Skopeček today from 15.00 pm for work reasons and Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today from 16.10 pm to the end of the working day for work reasons. Please, Mrs Balcarová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that this point finally reached the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. It's after a year and a quarter when we opened this point for the first time. It's been a very long time, I must say, but a lot of things have changed since then and some have changed in a positive direction. I would very much like to appreciate that a coal commission has been set up to propose how it is to be realized in the Czech Republic by diverting from the burning of fossil fuels, which I think is very important, because this is actually the most important thing we can do for climate protection in the Czech Republic. I myself am a member of the Working Group, which has the task of proposing a legislative framework for this process, and I believe, therefore, that we will continue to deal with legislation that supports the diversion from coal burning in this parliamentary term. At the same time, this group has the task of proposing a key according to which coal power plants will be shut down. And according to current information given the coronation crisis, we should present these outputs by the end of the year at the latest. I would like to mention here the Fridays for Future initiative, which actually initiated this point on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because their first demonstration, which took place about a week before the inclusion of this point, actually initiated and called on our government to actively address this issue. I think it's perfectly legitimate that young people are interested in their future and ask governments what they're doing for it, and they want them to settle their accounts because it's really about them. So it's about us, too, but of course they have a great deal of life ahead of them, and it's absolutely crucial to them how their lives will look. Another thing I would like to mention is that one thing is climate protection and the other is the adoption of adaptation measures. Today we are dealing with water and water protection measures, and the fight against drought is one of the topics that is part of the adaptation to climate change. Let me present to you the motion for a resolution, which I will then propose for a vote in a detailed debate. I'd read it to you now. I handed it out in writing to all the clubs, now I'm gonna read it. Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic I. on binding support for the long-term strategy of the Green Agreement for Europe, submitted by the European Commission, confirming the European Union's efforts to be a leader in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change; [[submitted]] II. to support the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 per cent from 1990 to 2030 - and here I am just pointing out that this is a common European target; III. to make maximum use of the opportunity offered by the Green Agreement for Europe, in particular the Fair Transformation Fund, which is intended for the socially equitable transition of regions dependent on a strongly polluting economy to a more sustainable economy; IV. to significantly support research, development and innovation in the field of renewable energy sources and their use in our natural conditions; [[including energy accumulation from these sources]] V. to submit by 30. 9. 2020 The Chamber of Deputies is informed of the specific steps it takes and intends to take in response to climate change. That's all for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u9	I also thank you, and the last one entered into the debate is Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, who I am giving the floor to. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Members, Mr Minister, I am not as old as I remember, so allow me a little bit of history. First of all, let me thank the Ministry of the Environment for what it has done and what it does, in Sobotkův and the current government in the area of climate change reactions. I must add, however, that this subject has already been dealt with more intensively by the social democratic government of Vladimír Špidla. After a break under the right-wing government, at the direction of Bohuslav Sobotka, a Department of Sustainable Development was established directly at the Office of the Government. He's at the Ministry of the Environment now, by the way. In cooperation with the academic sphere and experts from practice, the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Czech Republic 2030 was developed at the Office of the Government. [[17,00 hours]] As has already been mentioned here, today's parliamentary debate on climate change has been opened on the basis of student demands and demonstrations. I understand the concerns of young people in the future. It's their life perspective. However, I admit that I would find it a little more meaningful and perhaps more important to go to school with young people and talk directly to young people about what was happening in response to climate change, what is being done and what is still needed to be done. I hope the students haven't lost interest in the subject. Because we should talk about, firstly, the commitments of the Czech Republic to tackling climate change, as the proposed resolution also recalls, and secondly, we should not forget the link between tackling climate change with the condition of sustainable development. As I said before, it was a social democratic government that participated in the drafting and adoption of the Paris Agreement. The then Prime Minister Sobotka stated in December 2017 before signing the agreement directly in Paris - and now I quote: Climate change threatens our national security and economic prosperity. It has a negative impact on the fight against poverty and food security and is one of the causes of migration. It is therefore essential that activities aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation are included in the national development plan. It is clear that these steps will require considerable financial resources, technological support and capacity strengthening. However, we must realise that this is an investment in our future. - That goes without saying today, it needs to be added. About documents that were then accepted, whether it was in 2015 or 2017, I already spoke in the morning. The implementation of the adaptation strategy of the Czech Republic on climate change was to be evaluated last year. I am convinced that the House should know, should hear how this adaptation strategy is implemented. And I assume the Minister will be talking about it today or on another occasion. I note that addressing the effects of climate change is not only about emissions, but is about social, economic and environmental. However, the outcome cannot be achieved except by responsible political decisions. This implies a coherent society, cooperation not only at national level, but all of Europe, the continent and global. This is what the Council of Europe stated in the Memorandum, which signed up to support the Millennium Goals of the United Nations. And why is that? The environment cannot be closed to a state border, even if there is a more self-sustaining and self-sustaining fence on it. It won't solve the invisible hand of the market. No one can buy the environment for themselves. This can only be shared. This is a social democratic issue and a solution. From this point of view, one point of the House's meeting is really little attention to this fateful topic. I will also recall the seminar on sustainable development in the House last year. Vladimír Špidla pointed out that if the House really wants to address this issue, it must address the following points in particular: this is energy efficiency, for example, the question is why we have 130 per unit of GDP against Germany; circular economy and material intensity, soil quality and landscape planning. Of course, this is nothing new for those involved. But it still needs to be perceived in this structure. I would add that when we talk about energy, our debate and, in particular, our support should also focus on advanced technologies, support for science and research, where we are at the top of the world, especially in the field of small and salt reactors and fourth generation reactors. I don't think we're talking about it enough, and the support should be more massive. Ladies and gentlemen, we must gradually address these points as a task for ourselves. For the House. I therefore welcome the resolution of Mrs Balcarová. In the motion for a resolution, I support, in particular, the request to the Government under item 4, this is the promotion of science and research. However, I understand that some points in this resolution may be unstoppable for some. However, it would be a real shame to pour out the baby with the bathtub, and I therefore propose that we vote this proposed resolution on a case-by-case basis. I also had a motion for a resolution a year ago, but things have shifted, so I will not propose any motion for a resolution on this point. I just want to ask that, as a subcommittee on sustainable development, we deal with two essential issues, that is information on the actions of the various departments to implement the adaptation strategy of the Czech Republic for climate change, and further to request that we submit an updated implementation plan for the strategic framework from 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I really warn of underestimating the conditions for climate change and the idea that we can manage climate change ourselves as individual states. A socially divided society loses its ability to cooperate. It cannot therefore handle the fateful challenge that climate change puts before us. This is reflected in the objectives of the sustainable development of the United Nations. Joint efforts at the level of the Czech Republic, the European Union and the world to achieve these objectives are the first prerequisite for managing the potential threat that climate change can pose if we do not prepare for its impacts in time. As a Social Democrat, I fully agree with these Millennium Goals, and I believe that the social democratic concept, the balance between prosperity, social sensitivity and environmental protection, is capable of coping with this existential challenge that climate change puts before us. I am glad that the ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment are really dedicated to this as we have watched all day today. And thank you for that, and thank you all in the House, for paying your attention to this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u11	Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník will make a point of fact. [[Some Members express disapproval.]] I'd like us to keep our voices down and stop showing our enthusiasm here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have made a point of fact to be held in time, so let me just say that I have already said once that the House, through the mouth of the Committee on European Affairs, has, figuratively speaking, adopted a resolution on the Green Agreement for Europe and on the investment plan. So, in my opinion, there is nothing left to vote on. We have a resolution on the Green Agreement, we have a clear position. It is clear to me, however, that the House, as a sovereign, can vote on what it wants if Members and Members consider it appropriate. Therefore, neither Mrs Balcarová nor Mr President nor any of you can advise on how you should act. Nor can I advise colleagues from STAN to present their resolutions. I am just saying that the resolution will be redundant, the resolution that we already have, and then, of course, it must be considered what position it takes on these very rare but sometimes occurring resolutions of the European Committee in view of the House resolution. Whether he appreciates what the committee has done to deal with this in detail, has examined it in detail, and has issued an opinion that the House, perhaps, will now take off the table with some of its resolutions. Then we may need to think about how to fundamentally stand up in the Rules of Procedure for the European Committee's deliberations. Otherwise, I join in what Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said, so that if the House decides to vote on the proposal by the rapporteur, Mrs Balcarová, it should be done on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Kopřiva will speak further. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to remind Mr Zahradník, by your means, that the Committee on European Affairs adopts opinions on European legislative and non-legislative acts such as the Communication from the European Commission, the Green Agreement, but the Committee primarily adopts an opinion, the truth, on behalf of the Chamber of Deputies, but towards the European Commission or the Council. Whereas this item is called Government information and we are heading towards the government, so I think that these resolutions are actually not at odds and can complement each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u16	Thank you for the floor. First, two previous speakers. These resolutions contradict each other in any case, but that does not mean that we cannot vote on them and that we cannot adopt a resolution other than that adopted here by the Committee on European Affairs. If you interpret the Committee's resolution well, it actually urges that the conditions of the Green Agreement be changed, whereas in that resolution, at least the first three points that you have put forward, and you have every right to do so, you want us to support the key points of the Green Agreement. But I volunteered to ask Minister Brabec how nuclear energy would be. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister missed a historic chance to push through the core as an emission-free resource at the time of the vote on Green Deal, unlike our partners in the Republic of Poland. Note that unanimity was required, which was so called achieved, except that Poland was not in favour and negotiates very valuable exceptions for its country. And all we have achieved is that, in some accompanying subtext to the text, there is a neutral sentence that says that the European Commission notes and acknowledges that nuclear energy is part of the energy mix of some Member States, and the Prime Minister states that it has enforced that the core is an emission-free source. Unfortunately, he didn't enforce that. And now there's another one in front of us, because of the unfortunate circumstances and the covid crisis, the second and last chance to push through, so I want to ask Minister Brabec if the government has acted on this, what position it has taken, and whether we will fight for it. We go together to a government committee that deals with the issue of building a new nuclear bloc. I think that there is a broad political consensus in the Czech Republic after the Prime Minister has changed his view of 180° in the right direction regarding the financing of construction and the guaranteed price for future generated energy, so we will have to wage a major fight on the European playground. And if we don't take advantage of this second extraordinary chance, I'm very skeptical that we're going to be able to build it. And that is not in the interest of the Czech Republic. And that's not a coalition fight by the government, which is why I say there's a broad consensus. When we look realistic, it's a project for at least five governments, if I count on each of them to have a full term for four years. So I would like to know whether the government will take advantage of this chance and whether it will pick up this card in negotiations on the renewal project and play very hard with it, as our partners from Visegrad, colleagues from Poland, have played. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u17	Thank you. I do not see anyone else registered in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u18	I wouldn't hold back, but President Stanjura asked, and I will answer. She's more of a question to the Prime Minister or to the Minister of Industry and Trade and Vice Prime Minister Havlíček. But at least where I have been, I can assure you that in all those negotiations of the Government on nuclear energy, our position towards the European Union, and in all these materials, of course, it appears as a very strong subject that we will defend it at all costs. I happened to have a meeting with the German Federal Minister of the Environment a few days ago, because Germany will be chairing the European Council or the European Union in a few weeks, and I said that this is simply a crucial condition for us to support other key documents, because the Czech Republic's position for the future is clearly a combination of nuclear energy, renewable resources and the rest of gas, say coal, maybe by 2035-2040, but we just can't put it without a core. There isn't a single conversation, and I am deeply convinced of that where the Prime Minister is, where Vice Prime Minister Havlíček is or where I am and other colleagues, where this doesn't sound. So I can assure you, and I can assure you, some people like it more, some less, that support for nuclear energy is a key issue for the government, and we will use every opportunity as Poland does - of course Poland has a slightly different negotiating position, we all know that, given the size of the state, but we will just defend this, and it is a very important topic for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u20	I agree with these conclusions that the Czech Republic needs this, and I also believe that the Czech Government is dealing with this in its negotiations. But the fatal failure of the Prime Minister - Green Deal required unanimity, didn't matter about the size of the state. If we were insistent, we could have pushed it through, and we missed it. And now it's the second time, and I'm afraid for the last time, once again, unanimity, all the other decisions will be mostly, there will be absolutely nothing. I, because neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Industry is here, but it certainly has something to do with the subject, I see the clear connection, nor any other member of the government, so you must bear the banner, Minister. I understand what you said, that it would be better if the Minister of Industry or the Prime Minister were here, they're not here. The key question is why we didn't enforce it when unanimity was required. Why are we leaving this for the moment when we're outvoted? It's a so-called retreat to pre-prepared positions, that then we'll be heroes and say, we fought like lions, but they outvoted us. But they couldn't outvote us at Green Deal, and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic agreed not to enforce nuclear power as emission-free. And I'm saying that sad circumstances gave us a second chance, but last. And of course there are very dramatically disadvantageous conditions in this recovery plan for the Czech Republic. I don't know if you've all read it or if you all know it, but Slovakia is supposed to get ten times as much as the Czech Republic on a citizen. Do you see any logic in this? Do you see in the good negotiations of the Czech Republic? And I do not want to compare this with Poland, which is to be the third largest beneficiary and will certainly not be the most affected third country by the crisis, and I wish them that as our good neighbours. [[17.20 hours]] But if we're gonna fight in our breasts here and say something else at home for the home audience and we're gonna be scared in Brussels, and we're not gonna suggest it, and we're not gonna insist on it, you're right, Minister, we're not gonna do it. In 15 20 years there will be no electricity in the Czech Republic. I know that very often individual steps are considered by the length of the term, or how close the elections are. But in this case, we can't afford it. We've wasted seven years. And we have a match in the Czech Republic. And it's valuable. We don't have to argue about whether we want it or not. At least not with us. But since I'm going to that government committee, I didn't actually notice any resistance to the actions that the government is preparing for the project. I didn't. And that's where the representatives of all the Houses of the Party go. That's rarely gonna happen. But if we miss it now? Second and last chance, where will the vote be unanimous? We can't do this anymore, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u21	With a point of fact, Mr. Jan. It's not. Sorry. I'm sorry, there is no open debate. There is no open debate. I've finished the discussion. The minister had the final word. The Minister had the final word and was responded to by President Stanjura with priority rights. At this point, I am opening up a detailed debate in which I have Mrs Dana Balcarová registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to sign up for the motion for a resolution, which I presented in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u23	Yes, thank you. Okay. And Mr. Farský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u24	Thank you for the floor. I refer to the proposal that I made in the framework of the general debate, which says: "It asks the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a timetable for the project preparation procedure and the deadlines for the launch of decisive measures to implement the concept of protection against drought consequences for the Czech Republic by 30 September 2020.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u25	At this point, I do not see anyone else enrolled in a detailed debate. In a detailed debate, Mr Třešňák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u26	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I would like to extend the resolution in paragraph four, respectively. Mrs Balcarová's resolution, which would be new: 'to strongly support research, development and innovation in renewable energy sources, including the accumulation of energy from these sources, and research into small modular reactors and their use in our conditions'. I'll put it in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u27	Thank you. I do not see anyone else enrolled in the detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. I see it's not. I will ask the rapporteur to guide us through the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I therefore have three resolutions here at the moment - from Mr Farský, from Mr Třešňák and from me. I would like to hear the call, which I also welcome, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, for us to vote on the resolution after the points. So first we would vote the resolution that I have tabled, and then we would vote the resolution of Mr Farský and then the resolution proposed by Mr Třešňák, if that is how you agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u29	Okay. I'll do it again. Please, Mr. Kováčik for the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u30	Thank you. Thank you. If I have understood correctly, Mr President, by your means, Mrs Balcarová, her motion for a resolution on a case-by-case basis, as put forward. Yes? [[- Yes.]] Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u31	I wanted to reiterate that we will vote on Mrs Balcarová's motion for a resolution after the points, and then we will vote separately on the resolution of Mr Farský and Mr Třešňák. I've called you all together. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u32	I'm sorry. I would suggest a little change in the procedure, because there is a difference in that point number four, there it is, if I understand it, so it is rather counterproposal of colleague Třešňák, so it should be that point four by voting gradually, it should be the first. If accepted, then there would be no more vote on point four from my colleague Balcarová. If he hadn't passed my colleague Třešňák, my colleague Balcarová would have voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u33	That's point number four of my colleague Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u34	Yes. I might even suggest that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u35	Wait, wait. I'll try to recap. We will vote on Mrs Balcarová's points - one, two, three. We will vote on Mr Třešňák's fourth point. If he passes, it's over. And we will continue to vote on Mr Farský's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u36	I've got five points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u37	So, Mrs Balcarová's fifth resolution. And then we will vote on Mr Farský's resolution. If Mr. Třešňák's four doesn't pass, we'll vote for your four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u38	I would still have an alternative solution to the procedure that I would give up that point number four and replace it with a proposal from my colleague Třešňák. Because I actually agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u39	Okay. So let me get this straight, so we don't make this any harder. That makes it easy. We will vote on points one, two, three, Mrs Balcarová, four, Mr Třešňák, five, Mrs Balcarová, and then Mr Farský's resolution. I'm going to have to vote on this procedure that we agreed on this. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 9, 105 Members and Members registered, for 101, against no one. The motion was accepted. So please, rapporteur, first motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u40	"The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic "first, to give binding support to the long-term strategy of the Green Agreement for Europe presented by the European Commission, which confirms the European Union's efforts to be a leader in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change'. [[submitted]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u41	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 10, 104 Members of Parliament signed in for 26, against 20. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u42	"to support the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 per cent from 1990 to 2030'. I merely point out that this is a common European objective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u43	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 11, 105 Members of Parliament signed in for 28, against 13. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u44	"Third, to make maximum use of the opportunity offered by the Green Agreement for Europe, in particular the Fair Transformation Fund, which is intended for a socially fair transition dependent on a strongly polluting economy to a sustainable economy;' [[regions]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u45	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 12, 105 Members of Parliament entered, for 35, against 21. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u46	Four. I am now actually reading the alternative proposal by Mr Třešňák: 'to strongly support research, development and innovation in the field of renewable energy sources, including the accumulation of energy from these sources, and small modular reactors and their use in our natural conditions'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u47	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 13, 105 Members of Parliament entered, for 44, against 5. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please. I'll ask for peace in the hall so we can hear what we're voting on!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u48	"Five, to submit by 30. 9. 2020 The Chamber of Deputies shall be informed of the specific steps it takes and intends to take in response to climate change."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u49	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 14, 105 Members and Members signed in for 46 against 6. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u50	I now read Mr Farský's proposal: "He asks the government to do 30. 9. 2020 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a timetable for the project preparation procedure and deadlines for the launch of decisive measures to implement the concept of drought protection for the territory of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-010-008.u51	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 15, 105 Members registered, for 54, against 5. The motion was accepted. We have thus dealt with all the motions for resolutions. I'm done discussing this point. Since we have exhausted the agenda for this extraordinary meeting, I am ending this extraordinary meeting. Have a good evening. I remind you, we'll continue tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. 49th meeting.
