ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-007-007.u1	7. Proposal for a Member's Ethics Code To this point, you have received House Document No 7067. I ask that the representatives of the appellants take the floor, President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-007-007.u2	Hello, Mr President. I'd have a suggestion. I'm gonna come in, I hope, with a positive suggestion for everyone, and I suggest if we accidentally drag the 13th, I'm assuming that the point will be interrupted, but if we make it, we're gonna interrupt and we're done with the meeting. So if there's no objection, but you have to ask that point that, in some way, we would at least start discussing this point and then interrupt it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-007-007.u3	Of course. So I will ask in plenary whether any of the members of the MPs object to this because it is on the basis of an agreement. I don't see anybody, so we'd make this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-007-007.u4	Thank you. I'll try to walk into that time anyway. Thank you so much for the opportunity and opportunity to talk about the Code of Ethics here in plenary for the first time after I have spoken about it many times in various forums and in the media. The last time we discussed the issue of the Code of Ethics in the meeting of yesterday's Gremium, where there were also opinions, why we should actually adopt the Code of Ethics, why we should adopt it at this time. I do not do this often, but maybe I would answer the question: It is desirable, and therefore why should the Members of Parliament not have any code of ethics when the Code of Ethics has long been followed by prosecutors, the Code of Ethics has been issued by judges, the Members of the Chamber of Deputies have had their code of ethics for many years, a number of other professional organizations have their codes of ethics, and what is its exceptionalty? You may answer me by accepting this, the argument that the exceptionalness of Members of Parliament is that they do not need a code of ethics. From the point of view of the General Code of Ethics, it has a positive impact on the whole of society through strengthening the rule of law if there is some codification of what is called good behaviour and, above all, compliance with these rules, where acting on its own discretion without externally set limits is not acceptable. Legal awareness of the public is strengthened and, in particular, given the strong media coverage of us Members of the Chamber of Deputies and their strong visibility in relation to the public, the Code of Ethics can improve the perception of the Chamber of Deputies. It has an impact on the relationship between Members of Parliament. Ethical rules, which include the demands for a dignified attitude towards colleagues, help to create a collegiate atmosphere regardless of political rivalry. Let's all ask ourselves if the real discussion that's ever going on here is really the one you want to participate in, if you ever want to be in a different place than sitting in this room. As I have already said, many states such as France, Germany, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg have already adopted the Code of Ethics. Although Hungary has not adopted the Code of Ethics, it has at least introduced training on ethics in Parliament. Ethical codes are a common part of ministries, the Office of the Government, it is positively perceived so-called. soft law, which is also a regime in which I propose this code of conduct, when it is decided by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, not by law. Since May last year, the code of ethics of prosecutors has been in force. It emphasizes the values, the principles that justice officials must respect in a broader sense. The main principles include independence, legality, impartiality, expertise or credibility. In this spirit, the code of ethics of the Member is designed exactly the same way. So is the judge. In June of this year, a group of 23 judges under the direction of the current Supreme Court President, Petr Angyalossy, completed the Code of Ethics on which they worked for many months. The Code was handed over to the Minister of Justice during her visit to the Supreme Court and also sent to the Presidents of all the courts. For several years, there has been a code of ethics for Members of the Chamber of Deputies, and the outcome of this discussion is also awaited by this code of conduct, as the proposed ethics commission will be used. Perhaps the greatest novelty in this area is the ethics commission, but the main tasks are ethical advice to Members, for example, in the form of consultation in solving ethical dilemmas, methodological leadership of ethics in the Chamber of Deputies and Education, awareness of ethics inside and outside the Chamber of Deputies, for example through specialized training, seminars or conferences. A Member or an institution of the Chamber of Deputies may contact the Ethics Commission in confidence. A member of the Ethics Commission is bound, by his employment relationship with the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, by confidentiality of the facts he has learned about in connection with the performance of his activities. This will be particularly emphasized, indiscretion. The Ethics Commission has no supervisory or decision-making powers or powers to prosecute Members of the Chamber of Deputies. Indeed, it should only be such a guide in unclear situations. I deal with the Code of Ethics, what I am in the Chamber of Deputies. The debate takes place in some form throughout this entire term of office. Even when we were discussing the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, I suggested that a legal reference to the Code of Ethics be included in the Rules of Procedure. At that time, thanks to the veto of some of the MPs, this reference was not accepted. The Code of Ethics has returned to discussion. We have completed the second, we have completed the third discussion round on the ethics code within my working group of the President of the Chamber of Deputies on the Rules of Procedure. At this point, I am holding comments from several MPs, such as the KSČM club wrote to me 15. 9.: We have no comments on the draft ethical code. STAN, Mr Farský, also wrote: With the intention of discussing and approving the Code of Ethics, I also agree with the STAN, and I propose additions. We have fully accepted this supplement and it is part of the material you have in front of you. I have also received a statement from the ČSSD club that it identifies with the intention to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a draft of the Member's Code of Ethics. [[13.00 hours]] So we are in a situation where there may be a majority voting for such an ethical code. However, I perceive the debate that took place yesterday at the Gremium. I feel the debate with my colleagues, whom I appreciate, during today's day, when I walked by them individually and asked for support. And we were, one of those objections was that it may not be the ideal time to discuss the ethics code of the Member in half of the line-up at the moment. Of course, I am very interested in making this material successful, but I am also interested in adopting a broad consensus. At least to the extent of the constitutional majority. Because if we push it through 101 votes, the code of ethics will suffer rather than become a binding norm for us and for future Members. The form proposed by the Code of Ethics is the form of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. This resolution, of course, only applies for one parliamentary term. That means by the end of this term of office. Subsequently, those who arrive on the basis of the free elections in the autumn of next year would have to go back to that, and they would also have to agree on the resolution as well as the vote on all the resolutions that you have in the so-called resolution must be re-voted. a golden book, which is therefore blue in this parliamentary term. However, it is not the same scheme, it is not a scheme § 1 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, because the Code of Conduct or the Code of Ethics does not regulate the internal circumstances of the Chamber of Deputies. However, it is assumed that such a resolution would be voted again every parliamentary term, and that 200 new Members would always sign up for what we have committed ourselves to. And since I really am interested in making a wider consensus on this, we have agreed on the time that today is what is still ahead of us, under what circumstances we are voting that, as the proposer, I propose that we interrupt this item by discussing the constitutionally-legal committee, the mandate and the immunity committee and the organisation committee. To these committees, we will set a time limit of 60 days to discuss this material. I hope that these forums will be able to provide greater favor and greater support for this resolution. I would really like this to be a historic term when we have succeeded in doing something like this, because this debate is going on, as I remember, at least three parliamentary periods. So I'll do it again. It's 13.02. I don't want to keep you. I consider it the most appropriate procedure for us to interrupt this item so that we can refer the resolution to the three committees that I have appointed, organisational, constitutionally-legal, mandate and immune, to set a deadline of 60 days and return to this material as far as possible, and I hope, in a situation where all 200 of us will be here, when we will no longer be sitting in half the format. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-007-007.u5	So I'm just gonna repeat this: constitutionally-legal, mandate and organisational, and a 60-day deadline. I am now initiating a general debate. [[President of PS Vondráček repeats his proposal to the President.]] So, a motion to interrupt, okay. So I have here a motion to interrupt for 60 days, which we will vote on. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. I think we can vote. The proposal is to interrupt the discussion of this press for 60 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 82 Members registered, for 67, against none. The motion to interrupt has been accepted. We have therefore exhausted the 75th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm closing the meeting. I wish you the rest of the week. - And I'm sorry, I'll meet you at 2:30. I see a bit of a half-empty House, so I was under the impression that there was a conclusion. So I'll meet you at 2:30.
