ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u1	2. Control of the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1162 of 4 June 2020 to evaluate the course of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave with the date of fulfilment of 30 June 2020 and government information on the current occurrence of COVID in local fires, in particular in the Moravian-Silesian Region I would ask that Mr Jan Bartošek take the floor for the appellant of this point, who, if he agrees, will also be the rapporteur of this point. If he can hear me, then. Mr Bartošek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for keeping your word and indeed the extraordinary meeting programme has been supported across the political spectrum in the Chamber of Deputies. I appreciate that, because I believe that people's health is such a crucial thing that it is a reason to convene an emergency meeting and especially in connection with COVID-19 infection. It is important to focus on how this situation develops in the Czech Republic. [[There's noise in the room.]] The number of infected in the Czech Republic has fallen, which is good, but in practice this does not mean that this virus has disappeared and we can forget it. I think it would be a fatal mistake for all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u3	I will interrupt you for a moment, Mr. Ambassador. I ask for peace in the hall, especially from the left side I hear excessive noise. So I'm really going to ask you, if you have anything to discuss, go to the lobby, allow your colleague to perform. One more time, please, calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u4	Thank you, too, Mr President. At present, we have about three outbreaks in the Czech Republic where the covido disease is once again developing, the most recent of which concerns Karvinska. This implies that we must act responsibly and have sufficient truthful and quality information. Analysis of disease data, their timely evaluation and, above all, fair communication with citizens must be what people currently need. At the same time, decisions based on high-quality foundations are absolutely crucial. Today we decide how extensive the second wave of coronavirus and how good and how fast it will be from the state's position, through government and competent ministers, we will be able to respond. The second wave will be dangerous not only for the health of citizens, but much more, and in direct connection with people's health, for the economy of the Czech Republic. We have adopted a number of resolutions when we have committed the government to implement them. Some are due until June 30th. Today, the government will have the opportunity to say clearly - whether the Minister of Health or others - whether they have implemented these resolutions by which the Chamber of Deputies committed the government. It should be noted that, as the situation in Karvinsko develops, it is unfortunately necessary to state that I see the failure of the state and, above all, from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. How is it possible that the union of towns and municipalities in Karviná County said that smart quarantine does not work, people are late to learn the results of tests, and the regional sanitation station cannot handle the situation? Minister, we have no choice but to ask. Do you have this information? When did they get to you? In what way and whether you adequately responded to them, whether you had this information only from the media, or whether others, such as doctors, firefighters and others, have turned to you. I wonder if there was communication, when you received information that the number of infected in Karvinsko was growing rapidly, that the number of infected in OKD was 20 percent, and what adequate steps you took and whether these steps were taken in time and proper. I'm also interested in the way you treated the test. Because if companies are now saying that it is testing around 4,000 tests a day and it is necessary to have 10 to 15,000 of them, so whether you have activated, for example, state material reserves, whether you have activated personnel, whether you have strengthened the Karvinska region, and why, for example, you have not accepted, as is happening elsewhere in the neighbouring countries, that there is an area testing, such as whole areas. And what is absolutely striking is that when Uničovsko closed, it was done on the basis of 25 positive findings. How is it possible that 950 positive findings in Karvinsko were not activated by the government, by the Ministry of Health, by the Ministry of Finance, by means of absolutely decisive measures? How is it possible that it was enough to close Uničovsko, but Karvinsko as if you didn't care? You'll say you didn't care, but the numbers are incomparable. But no action on the part of the state. It seems that the government, in turn, did not decide and expose the miners and their families to high health risks. The media interprets it by infecting only miners, but that's not true. There was also a staff that wasn't infecting. This also applies to women, a number of administrative workers. That means they're not just miners who plow. This means that the threats to the people of Karvinsko were very high and it seems that the government and, in turn, those responsible did not want to decide, because the question remained, who would pay if the government decided. [[9.20 hours]] Another question that follows directly is how the government equipped state material reserves, whether we are ready for the next wave of the covid crisis, whether we are sufficiently frontloaded, and if the government, by extension yesterday, refused to strengthen the budget of the state material reserves, what resources have been spent so far to purchase these protective resources, how Czech companies, for example, were contacted, to what extent to participate in the supply of the Czech Republic, or whether supplies remain only from China. This means what companies, to what extent and to what extent the Czech companies were contacted to deliver this to the Czech state. So much for the introduction of this point. I will then join the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u5	Thank you and I ask you to take your place as rapporteur on this point. And before I give the floor to the Government's representative, according to Section 67, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomáš Hanzel asked for the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u6	President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, honourable members of the Government, fellow Members, I will now speak to you not only as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, but also as a person who has been Mayor of Karviné for 12 years. I have decided to speak on the grounds that Karviná will be bowed down in many falls today, and as former Mayor Karviná, I consider it my duty to speak on this point as one of the first. And I'd like to ask you to distinguish Karvinsko and Karvina. I would like to thank my colleague Bartošek for keeping an eye on this, because it is a fundamental difference. My hometown and its wide surroundings are currently under enormous pressure from the media, self-appointed experts and the inability of the state to address the situation. I cannot accept how Karvinsko is being pillaged and defamed in the media and social networks. It is unacceptable for the national press to accuse and label the people of Karviné. For example, the Young Front today headline: Karviná complicates the way to the sea for the Čech. Or IHNed.cz subtitled: If it wasn't for Karvine, we'd be a green country, says Chief Hygiene Rážová. And I'm saying, if it wasn't for the inability and the lack of hygiene, we'd be a green country. Such behavior is irresponsible, abusively insulting and damaging not only our region, but especially the citizens of Karvina and adjacent communities. Let us consider the factual possibilities of representatives of local and regional authorities after the emergency has been lifted. Part of the opposition is strongly attacking Mayor Karvina and the governor of the region and accusing them of inaction. The fact that both gentlemen have narrowed maneuvering space in the issue, because of the cancellation of the emergency situation, is basically no longer of interest to anyone. During March, the necessary measures were introduced in Karvina, which worked perfectly. Local institutions and authorities have very high quality measures in place. Everyone did what was needed and, above all, what the law allowed them to do. And for that, they owe them a lot of thanks. It is therefore very disrespectful to subject residents, institutions and institutions to constant criticism in Karvinsk. When the initial shock and fear of infection fell, the whole society and unfortunately this House succumbed to the impression that it was actually won. A very strong call was made for the cancellation of the emergency situation and for the unwinding of the measures taken. It did not improve the situation, on the contrary, nor did it improve the activities of the regional sanitary station and so-called. Smart quarantine. The measures taken are slow, confused and obviously not effective. How else do you explain the gradual testing of the mine from the mine with a big time delay, the use of inappropriate tests and the delay with closing down, or the slippery stopping of league football, where the entire team is quarantined and the Football Association wants to finish the league at any cost. It's not a normal situation. Carvina is constantly damaged at every step of the way today and daily. There's a lot of talk about tracking and smart quarantine, but the results are rusty. It is not normal for five, six and sometimes nine days to be expected in this situation. And what can the authorities do? The information they receive is often incomplete, inadequate, but also incorrect. The Regional Hygiene Station has been splashing on the problem for a number of weeks with an embarrassing result. Today and every day, the citizens of Karvina turn to me and are naturally angry. They resent the defamation and, above all, the spread of panic and terror. We have come so far that people daily read delusions that may even qualify as the spread of alarm messages. Part of the opposition in Karviná cries out that health care is on the verge of collapse in the city and that it is acutely believed that people are dying of coronavirus in Karviná. That's scandalous and it's absolute nonsense! The spread of fear and extradition of unsubstantiated hypotheses on the facts of the situation only worsens. Dear House, in my speech I wanted to point out the limited possibilities of self-government, the infunction of a clever quarantine, the unfair entrapment, harm and labeling of people in Karvinsko and the Moravian-Silesian Region. Karvina is a beautiful city full of great people. She just needs to keep the sticks off her and help her. OKD and mining depression is a chapter for itself. No political representation has handled this issue in the last 30 years. Let us not be surprised because citizens in the mining regions feel like they are on a stagnant dorm. This is not only a complaint, but also an incentive for further reflection and solution. We'll shut down the mines tomorrow, but let's not leave the region and its residents in the lurch. You see, I come from a region of shock who has never been afraid to face major challenges and are not afraid of them even today. We are proud to produce coal and steel for the entire country for decades. However, we have a legitimate feeling that you no longer need us and consider us a mere burden. The Moravian-Silesian Region can be an economic tiger of the Czech Republic and needs one thing. A fragment of what he's been giving this country for decades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. I'll read some of the excuses that came after the meeting started. Mr František Petrtýl apologizes today from 9.30 to 11.30 for work reasons. Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologizes today for work reasons. Mr Farský apologizes for the whole of today's negotiations for health reasons. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for all of today's working day. And now I would ask that a representative of the government, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the inclusion of this point, because I think it is a good thing if we set things straight and agree with what has been said here that the various rumours and media headlines certainly do not contribute to the solution of the situation and lead to the huge stigmatisation of the people, the inhabitants of the region, which is not good. It's not good even from the point of view of the people themselves, that's how to stigmatize them, and the headlines I've seen really do nothing good. It needs to be realized that the virus is here, and apparently it doesn't happen that it's retreating on its own strength in any way, and that must simply be taken as a fact. And the fact that we have a certain outbreak here, even if it is quite significant in terms of the number of infected, is simply something that we have to count on for a certain extent in the future. [[9.30 hours]] Some people think there's a clever quarantine that means there won't be a disease, there'll be zero cases where the disease suddenly disappears from one day to the next, so that's a misunderstood situation. A really smart quarantine as such, it's just a tool, a tool to solve the situation, a tool to solve local outbreaks, to solve data sharing, tracking, human testing. But surely it cannot be expected that it will mean that the disease will completely disappear here. We see it not only in Karvinsko, we see it now in other fires, whether it be Kutná Hora or Windy Jeníkov. So that's all it really takes to begin with to realize that the fact that we have one local outbreak here, so it's not possible to make any fatal conclusions about system failure or anything like that. I'm sure it's not like that. On the contrary, the fact that this outbreak has been so massively tested directly at the outbreak, that it has, of course, temporarily led to an increase in the number of infected, that is actually good, because we have captured these people, we have been able to, or regional sanitation stations, to scare them in cooperation with other regional health stations involved in the process. And today the situation is calming down. I think it's obvious on the data. Look at the increases that have been in the past week, and look at the increases that are in the last few days. Yes, of course the seizures are still there. I'm sure the numbers aren't satisfactory yet, but the downward trend is quite clear. And it is still true that within the whole Republic the epidemiological situation is calm, in most districts of the Czech Republic there was not one occurrence of COVID-19 disease. At the same time, what we've been saying for the last few days is that about 60 percent, 70 percent of the cases are concentrated in the Moravian-Silesian region. That doesn't change at all. If we have yesterday's data, then 68 cases, new cases, were detected in the Moravian-Silesian Region and 61 outside, in other regions, in other parts, in other fires. The situation in Karvinsko, of course, had some development. I also invited the director of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Dr. Svrčinová, along with Mrs. Chief Hygiene, Dr. Rážová. I would ask you then that the House also allow them to comment on this, because I really think that one thing is a political debate and the other is a professional debate. I think it is much better to really pursue this professionally than politically, the situation. Because I'm sure the situation had some development within the OKD. You know that this initial outbreak was the Darkov mine, where there were confirmed cases, clearly confirmed cases, and there was a massive testing that led to a relatively significant capture also at that time, from mid-May, the number of positive cases and subsequently their contacts. And the focus today is practically extinct. Everyone's been chased, the whole of Darkov is basically dead today. And so we assume that this situation will continue, even with regard to the CSM mine, where it must be said - and that is probably why I invited the director of the Regional Hygiene Station to comment in detail - there was no concrete evidence at the time that the disease was spreading in some way, that there would be people who are sick who go to work who are burning. I don't have that kind of information that that's the case. And this was due to the fact that the vast majority of those who are tested positive today are unmarkable. She was there measuring the temperature of the miners, some precautions were set up. But the really, even the temperature reading didn't really pick up any positive cases, there were no anomalies just because those people just didn't have any symptoms. The tests were set up, the rapid tests, that's true, as a preventive measure, and then on the basis of the fact that there were certain seizures within the rapid tests, so again, as in the scenario of the Dolu Darkov, there was a flat test within the ČSM mine, which led to the massive increase that we observed last week. Before that, there were no massive increases. I answer what Mr Bartošek asked. I learned about these massive increases last week on the basis of field testing, massive testing at the outbreak in the CSM South and CSM north mines, where it is true that the proportion of these positive cases is somewhere around 17 percent, less than 18 percent. They are mostly Czech citizens. But there are also a number of foreign workers, namely 126 Polák, one Rus, 36 Slovák, 18 Ukrajinec and Czech citizens 523. I mean 181 strangers. That's the current situation. And that's the situation. And it's the increases that were caused by the surface testing. So the system worked in this direction. And the fact that there really are these increases is actually a good thing. That's a positive thing. Those people tested themselves, even if they were unmarked, and they caught themselves, placed in quarantine, and they're running, they're running, and they're tracking. The fact that this outbreak is quite massive, that the positive findings are a large number, as I mentioned, overall 704, this is, of course, a thing that is quite demanding for the local regional health station, but which has been strengthened in turn, and this is also the element of the clever quarantine, has been strengthened by other sanitary stations from other regions. And based on the very shot of a clever quarantine, the Daktel system, when it was possible to share the data, to actually call those people, to call those contacts, and it really wouldn't be possible in normal mode, this is actually how we were able to engage other county sanitation stations within a few hours, share data about those infected, about contacts, and do the tracking. And I think that even though the situation was definitely more complicated at the beginning, given the large number of positive cases, it was resolved in a number of days. I was also personally in the Moravian-Silesian Region on Thursday. Perhaps just as a response to the somewhat obscene statements made by some of my fellow Members in the media, so I was actually in the Moravian-Silesian Region on Thursday, I was in Ostrava, and I dealt with both Mr. Governor and representatives of the city of Karviná and other cities, hospitals there, and the Fire Rescue Corps. In short, we were all at the same table, and we were constructive about the situation. Not by any media statements, powerful gestures, but really on the spot where we agreed to strengthen the withdrawal capacity, set up promly ordering patients or those contacts for testing, will strengthen the collection points within individual hospitals, including the Ostrava University Hospital. And that happened, as far as I know, and this is happening. And now the delay, I would say, is quite minimal. Of course, I was also interested in the fact that there were some media cases. Of course, the fact that someone's waiting for the test results for a few days is wrong. On the other hand, when I looked into it in a system way, this really wasn't the rule. Those were some media cases, the cherries that are removed and shown in the papers, but otherwise, that's not really the rule. If that were the case, we wouldn't have any positive cases in the region right now. But we actually had them as soon as they started testing, so they started running and they're in the statistics that are published. [[9.40 hours]] So in this respect, the system actually works, certainly not ideally, certainly there is still something to work on, no doubt. We need to realize that the system, like we set it up, with data sharing, lab involvement, etc., we created it within a few months. I can imagine if it wasn't a crisis at the time, maybe two years would be working on it. Some IT companies would compete, etc. We did all this inhouse solution, and we actually created the system in a few months. And I'm sure it's not quite tuned yet, it's certainly not ideal, I'm sure we still have to work on it. Just getting all the labs involved in the system was complicated, because there are laboratories that are state-owned, which we have more influence on, there are private laboratories, which, among other things, some of those laboratories in the Moravian-Silesian region, private, took a long weekend off. They froze the samples, put them in the fridges and didn't test them. So even then, the delay can be given. Unlike the Health Institute in Ostrava, which worked every day, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, on holidays, some private laboratories didn't really work. We also need to undo this so that this doesn't happen. And we only managed to involve all the laboratories in the central information system of infectious diseases now through re-appellation, threats of fines, etc., when the laboratories were actually involved to report the number of tests carried out to us to report the number of negative tests, etc., so that we really had a real overview of who needed to be tested repeatedly. So far, we - and this was a criticism of the media - did not know how many of the tests were tested and how many were tested repeatedly. We didn't know because the labs weren't involved in the system and they didn't report the data. Today, the vast majority of the labs, and there are about a hundred of them, are involved in the system. Unfortunately, most laboratories do not belong to the Ministry of Health, they are private subjects, but eventually managed to involve them in the system. This morning we had a central control team of smart quarantines and we already have the data, so we will certainly also have a more detailed overview of how the lab is testing, how many negative tests, how many repeat tests, etc. So the system is evolving somehow, it's not quite simple, because the health system is decentralized, it's not centralized. We don't control the entire health department. We have practitioners here who, of course, don't all work optimally, so we need to fine-tune it. But I would certainly refuse that something failed in the Moravian-Silesian region. That the system failed, etc. When we really look at the numbers, the vast majority of the positives captured, it's somewhere around 85, 90 percent, they're miners or close contacts. What the governor also talked about, we then made it clear that there are some women under 30 years of age, etc., so of course these are the contacts of the miners, wives, daughters. And it's probably obvious that these people are simply infected because the miners live with them in the common homes and it's logical that the disease will occur. But that doesn't mean community spread. Community spread means I'm infected, and I don't know who it's from. That all of a sudden I have the disease and I can't tell where I got it from, who it's from, there's no contact, there's no way to scare the road. And there's really a minimum of such cases. So it really is not that there is some uncontrolled spread within Karvinska or Frýdecko-Mistecko. These seizures are caused by massive testing at the outbreak, and, as I say, the situation is now more or less under control, there is further tracing. It is clear that there will still be some seizures in the coming days, for which we must prepare. But the trend when we look at what the situation was at the top of 28. 6. when there were 235 new cases in the Moravian-Silesian region, and today we have some 68, so we see that the trajectory is declining, and this is due to the fact that the outbreak is really slowly dying out in the direction that miners are being tested, contacts are being tested, and we expect with epidemiologists that the situation will improve. It should be recalled once again that, indeed, the vast majority of people who have been tested positively are unmarked individuals or have a very mild course of action. The situation has no effect on the flooding of intensive care units, on the overloading of the capacity of beds with artificial pulmonary ventilation, with extrabody circulation, etc., on the difficult cases, indeed in this direction it is not. The health system is not paralyzed in any way, so the threat to the wider population there is certainly not as pronounced as it was at the beginning of the first wave. And here I would also answer perhaps this still media-disputed topic: why did you close Litovel and Uničov and why didn't you close Karvina? Among other things, the government cannot really close it now, Mr Member, but it would have to be decided by the Regional Hygiene Station, because the government is no longer taking large measures, there is no mandate to close a region. But still, of course, we consulted with the County Hygiene Station. And precisely because today we already have much more information that we have on-line every day, we monitor hospital capacities, numbers of light cases, moderate, heavy, numbers of patients on artificial pulmonary ventilation, we really have data that we did not have at the very beginning of March, April in such detail. Indeed, we were in a situation where the disease was spread throughout the Czech Republic, where the number of patients in hospitals grew here. And in such a case, of course, radical measures, the measures were entirely appropriate and fully effective. Which then turned out to be. But if we're talking about one district, one region where we have a large outbreak, but most of the suspects are symptomsless individuals, and the outbreak is very well located, in this case we're closing down a region with 260,000 inhabitants - and that's not my opinion, but epidemiologists have assessed it as an inadequate interference with the personal rights of those people by limiting movement. This should really be the last option if all other measures fail. But the measures are set up there, there are antiepidemic measures set up to cover the wearing of drapes, spacings, disinfection, reducing the number of people at mass events to a maximum of 100, so, of course, there are rules set up to protect those vulnerable groups. And that's actually quite the success of the situation. If you look at how many of the large numbers of people who have been captured positive fall into risk groups, I think 65+, 75+, polymorbid patients, they're also units. Why? Since we have taken measures to protect vulnerable groups, we have introduced an obligation to test staff, new incoming patients, new incoming clients to health facilities, social facilities. So we manage to protect risk groups, which is the most important thing. Because unsigned individuals, with all due respect, that's not a major problem. The disease will go away in a while, the body will deal with it, but the problem is the serious cases, the vulnerable groups, the seniors. And that's where the hit really is absolutely minimal. That's why we haven't stepped up to any massive restrictions on movement, etc. It is precisely because the intervention of risk groups and severity is very small in the situation. So let's really look at it professionally, not politically. I understand that the regional elections are coming, and it is definitely an important region, I understand that. But I think it would be really good for epidemiologists to evaluate it, to assess the situation. Believe that we're very careful about this, we're watching the situation every day, we're looking at the data, I think we've published it. On Tuesday there was a comprehensive press conference. The data is being released, so we're not hiding anything. If the situation were really serious, then believe that we would inform the public that we would take more forceful measures. I cannot, of course, rule out that if there is any deterioration in the situation, the measures will be tightened. That's what I said, and there's some mega-titulas coming out of it again. Of course I can't rule it out. Obviously, if the situation gets worse, but so far, on the data we see, it's the other way around. The number of seizures in that region is decreasing over time and we are convinced now if nothing extraordinary happens, that the number will decrease more in time. It won't be immediately, but in the coming days we expect this tendency. [[9.50 hours]] So much for Karvinsko, or I'm ready to answer all the questions. And as I say, perhaps I would ask the honourable Chamber of Deputies if she could and would allow the director of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Dr. Svrčinová and Dr. Rážová, as the main hygiene officer of the Czech Republic, to express themselves for the technical part and solution of the local problem. Because it really is true, and it was a bit ridiculed that the government is now not taking those flat measures anymore. Indeed, even under the Public Health Act, these local measures cannot now be taken by the government or the Ministry of Health at all. The Ministry of Health cannot issue emergency measures for the Moravian-Silesian region and can do so only and exclusively by the competent regional sanitation station. The Ministry of Health can only issue measures for the whole Republic, not for the region, so that is why we presented it this way, not that we would wash our hands of it. We follow the situation, we deal with it actively, of course with the health care professionals there. We also have some responsibility for this, but it is not that the Ministry of Health can issue any measures, close mines etc. Among other things, the closure downstairs. This also compares the situation with Poland, with Silesian Voivodship. I was just analyzing to see - and we're able to provide - what kind of situation was there before closing down and closing down. Among other things, all the mines did not close, all the shafts did not close in Poland, some remained functional there, but the situation in terms of the incidence of the disease did not change in principle from the time before closing down and after the mines closed. It was just like us. That means there was a certain spike, when there was a massive test, there were significant increases, but otherwise in the overall summary it did not lead to any zero incidences when the mines closed on the Polish side. So it needs to be realized. And sometimes it's actually compared to why you didn't close those mines and the Polák shut them down. That impact really, when we looked at it, it's very small. The fact that the mines have now closed, or OKD has decided to close the mining for six weeks - it is not the whole six weeks, it is actually, the week is preparing the downturn, then the four weeks real downturn, stop, and again the week will be running - so it will certainly help the situation if everyone follows what they have, if quarantine measures are followed, people stay at home and so on, but otherwise on the situation as such, flat, within the region it will affect it minimal, because the focus is really very limited, localized. So much for that. Of course I am prepared to answer other questions, because this point is wider, he also concerns some testing strategy and smart quarantine, but I considered it important to introduce you to the situation in Karvinsko, which certainly does not please us, but we see it as part of the situation, as I said the virus did not disappear, that it is still here, unfortunately, and does not seem to be losing its intensity in any way, and we need to be able to deal with these local outbreaks. That's our job or the health department's job. I am convinced that here we will deal with this focus as with others, in Mariánské Lázně, in Cheb and so on, we have managed everything. I am convinced that we will also be able to handle this outbreak, but please, let us not make this political case, let us not make it a cause, that it really means some end of the world for the Czech Republic. We have to realize that similar outbreaks will simply occur here. Until there is an effective vaccine, I think it will, unfortunately, also be a scenario in other countries. See what is happening in Austria now. Take a look at what is happening in Germany and other countries that were also doing well and have local outbreaks and local increases. We need to learn to live with the virus in this regard and deal with the situation and not make it any more than it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mr Pavel Juříček apologizes today between 15.00 and 16.00 for work reasons. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes for his morning work and Mr František Petrtýl extends his original apology until 11.30 hours until 12.30 hours. I am opening a general debate and I am asking Mrs Richterová if she wants to exercise her right of priority, as she has been empowered to present the opinion of the parliamentary club. Please, you have the floor. President Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself, also with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u10	I thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the previous explanation of some things to the Minister. [[The MP brought a big sign.]] What I still don't understand is that we have July and there are still sentences, as if we were in the preparation phase, in the learning phase. Unfortunately, these preparations cost about 1,700 people infected in Karvinsk. So I'm glad that, as the pirát, we initiated this point, that this point was included in today's House meeting because we were trying to do it, but I don't understand how we can pretend that everything is going as if according to plan. The point is that there is no concrete plan for dealing with these local outbreaks. We introduced a document for the pirát that everyone can download, the future is being dealt with now. What's going on? That there would be a problem with the mines, we've been alerting the pirát since March. It's just traffic that's a risk to spread the infection. On April 30, the first infection appeared at the Dole Darkov, and then on May 18th, according to the information I have, about 500 people from the Dole Darkov were tested. Not all of those 1,800 employees. He didn't get to the others until June 4th. Why do I say the numbers? Because the reaction was incredibly slow. This is how the government is now planning to deal with the other employees. We would like to stress behind the pirát, and I will underline it here with a printed requirement that all employees, including household members, be tested. [[He's showing a sign with brief terrains.]] So that it doesn't move gradually. The second thing I'm going to highlight is a functional mobile sampling network. That would help, too. And I'm gonna go over it right now. Yesterday on the Health Committee, we learned that a large part of the staff will be tested. However, it is still unclear whether this will be enough and whether the government, in cooperation with the Regional Hygiene Station, will deploy enough testing capacities at the moment of the next outbreak, for example now Frýdek-Místek. What's going on? If it is really ready to quickly activate mobile sampling sites, quickly reach and test several hundred people, then we can stop the spread of the disease. Not any other way. Otherwise, what we are now witnessing is the beginning. That is why we are so clearly demanding an increase in the test capacities, because, and that is another absurdity, with the increase in the number of infected, the curve, unfortunately, the number of tests is falling completely absurdly. [[It's showing a graph.]] And that doesn't make sense. So if there are more local outbreaks, we're going to have to have the capacity to handle the collections, from securing the collections to evaluating the samples in the labs, to communicating the test results on about 30 grand a day. These are the capacities that other countries have mastered. We absolutely don't know how to secure this as a country. At the most we got in those tips at 9, 10,000, 11,000 at the most a day. So if I sum it up for the Pirate Club, one more time. We're really glad this is going on today, it's very important. We are glad that after our request that all employees of OKD be tested, at least part of it is being carried out, but as we know about the practical functioning of the quarantine now, so unfortunately there are large reserves, people learn wrong results, learn these results very late, this has already been discussed here. And out of all the information we have, there is no rapid evaluation of how the various important instruments of smart quarantine are combined, how the government can be evaluated, what really works best and what is not so useful in the region of Karvinska. It seems that the memory maps are not so useful, but that other folders are very important. [[10.00 hours]] And now, in summary, we have July 2020, a state-controlled OKD company, under the Ministry of Finance. We have the government's clear responsibility here to support the region in its rapid management. We have here a general document called the National Test Strategy, but there are no concrete steps in it, as we would be able to quickly increase the capacity for testing as a state, to quickly secure new sampling points. Maybe the document defines the backbone sampling points, the spinal labs, but it doesn't say which ones they are anymore, it doesn't say how they're going to be financed, it doesn't say when we're going to have them. So these are the specific things we demand for the pirát. We also demand it because it's simply impossible to pretend that we can sort of do it all, go on by ourselves, and nothing will happen in the fall. And I'm gonna say it again, and I said it yesterday, but I think it's very important. We have 5,600 practitioners, 2,500 pediatricians. Rhymes start in the fall, coughs. If they send only four people a day in the fall to test for a combination of the symptoms that people will have, if it isn't covid, we're just at the capacity of the 30,000 tests a day we need, purely when the practical doctors and pediatricians will send as they should, so we won't be able to do it. And the last thing I'm gonna stress. We talked a lot on the committee yesterday about the fact that there was actually no recommended procedure for laboratories to communicate positivity, negativity, that this methodical procedure by the Ministry was missing. We're very well aware behind the pirát that the labs are private facilities. But the tests are paid out of public health insurance or other means of public funds, unless they are the few tests for self-payers. So what we want to do is to make it clear that the government really has mastered the practical provision of testing collections, the rapid deployment of mobile sampling teams, and that the above-mentioned testing of workers who are engaged in vulnerable people who work in elderly homes, for example, is still ongoing. That would be my last question to the Minister, whether this test is really in the caregivers, in the elderly' homes using mobile collection teams or in other organized ways is still secured in Karvinsk. Well, that's a specific question. And I'm going to say goodbye to the review of the E.R. levels, because even in the Future's plan, we are now proposing to introduce four levels of alert, which do not differ from more detailed information just because they are clear: yellow indicates a slight level of threat, a level of three orange certain limitations, a level of four really hard bans. [[shows]] Such a system is particularly characterised by the fact that it is defined by the occurrence of what is happening, what measures people are supposed to expect, what they can count on at least a little bit. And that, unfortunately, is the sad sentence I'm going to say goodbye to: we now have no idea what we can count on from this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u11	Good morning, honourable Members. Let's keep going. But I will ask my colleague Pekarová to wait, because the Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam came forward with a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u12	Thank you. I have already said this in the introductory words, but I would ask the House to approve the presence and opportunity to speak at the meeting, at the plenary, the director of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Dr. Svrčinová, and the chief hygienist of the Czech Republic, Dr. Rážová. So I'd like to ask you to take a vote. Otherwise, I shall make a brief comment on Mrs Richterová. Yes, the testing is still ongoing. It is set up by an extraordinary measure of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region. This means, tested, in all social services facilities, social residence services, in all bed facilities, medical devices are tested regularly and should test both employees and new incoming clients, possibly patients. This is the extraordinary measure taken, I believe, at the beginning of last week. Similarly, a test is required for all cross-border workers, which must be required by all employers in the territory of the Moravian-Silesian Region, because we have seen that those cross-border workers tested positively there is quite a lot also within the OKD cluster. So all of this is set. Mobile teams of the Army of the Czech Republic are working and working, and we must thank you for that, because the army provides us with a huge amount of help in this regard. This is why we were able to test OKD employees in the focus in a very short time. And military colleagues are ready to continue helping us within mobile collection teams, but so are the stationary collection points that we have strengthened within individual hospitals. So in this regard, I think the situation has improved, as has the capacity of laboratories. Currently otherwise for your information, in the system we have a total of 100 laboratories that are able to test for COVID-19 in the Czech Republic, although of course in some regions where there are zero seizures of new cases of COVID-19, those capacities are subdued because it makes no sense to test where you do not have any positive seizures for several days or weeks. So I'm just asking for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u13	Thank you for keeping the point of fact, Minister. Because it is a procedural proposal for the House to agree to the presence and performance of the main hygiene officer of the Czech Republic, Dr. Rážová, and the director of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Dr. Svrčinová. We're going to vote number four. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] I've already gonged. And a colleague of Benda on behalf of the President of the club with priority rights. Procedurally. [[Member of the Benda: Procedurally!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u14	Procedurally, please. I consider the representation of persons who do not have this right by law on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies to be at least questionable. And we need to think about it. And I would very much like to have a separate vote. I can still imagine that the main health care worker of the Czech Republic is coming, and I find that to be correct and correct. But in order to have individual county officials here, we can go crazy in time. So I'd like this vote to be about the head hygienist, then maybe the county.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u15	Okay. I understand your reminder, Mr. Ambassador. So we will vote on the presence of Dr. Rážová, first of all, on the presence of the main health care professional of the Czech Republic. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. I'm gonna reengage. We will decide on the present and right to speak in the Chamber of Deputies for Dr Rážová in voting number 4 which I have begun. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 4 of the present 113 for 110, against 1. The motion was accepted. [[10.10 hours]] And now we will vote on the second proposal, and this is about the presence of the director of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Dr. Svrčinová. The number five vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number five, out of 114 in favour, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I will therefore ask the organizational committee to ensure the presence of both ladies, i.e. Mrs. Chief Hygiene and Director of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region. Before he gets here, we'll continue. Although kolegyně Pekarová has priority rights, I have two further factual points, Mrs Maříková, Mr Marek Benda and Mrs Richterová. I will now read an apology from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, Mr Martin Baxa from 14.30 to the end of the day. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mrs Karla Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it would be a good idea for the exact numbers to be heard here, so that the Minister or Mrs. Chief Hygiene tell us how much percent are patients with clinical symptoms, how much percentage are patients who have been caught by the general testing, because if there is a claim that most patients are without clinical symptoms, so that we can imagine how much is the percentage, how many patients are hospitalized and how much is in serious condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Richterová, my colleague Benda has applied to this procedural matter. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. I just really want to respond to the Minister because the devil is hiding in detail. And so called. the details are now the numbers of mobile sampling points. I just want to draw attention to the numbers from last week in Karvinsko, when a number of people needed a pre-op exam, they were often seniors, they asked for mobile sampling teams, but only two were available to Karvinsko, so although the demands were between 160 and 180 a day, the two ambulances could have checked out a maximum of 60 times a day. This is information I have from the field. I'm saying it this way because then these people were in total nerves if they could get on, for example. for operations, etc. And it wasn't until Friday that two more ambulances jumped in. That's what I got from the ambulance, which isn't a system solution. I want to show that it's not at all so that it's in the detail made up as it is with those mobile sampling teams that it was dealt with completely chaoticly ad hoc, that there was a considerable amount of overpressure of applications, justified demands over that capacity, and that it's obvious that the specifications in the national plan are missing, that it's not written at all, how specifically, how exactly this increase from two ambulances to four, to six will be dealt with when it's needed in Frýdek-Místek, if it's needed anywhere else. It's just not possible to download ad hoc ambulances from an ambulance without any more coordination. So that's why I'm saying it in this particular way and exactly what my numbers are and what I'm afraid is going to happen somewhere else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual point, Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u20	Hello, thank you. I'd like to say that these mobile centres shouldn't be used to bypass patients who have pre-op training. We, through these mobile centres, need to ensure, above all, a disease that spreads in the area and which is based on the contacts that are being traced. And I would also like to say that, of course, those capacities are somehow given what you have at your disposal. In my opinion, it is not entirely happy that the ambulance is driving and taking samples. Ambulance must somehow provide for what it's for here, i.e. saving people's lives. I would like to say that we actually had a meeting on Thursday last week and we agreed - and I don't know if this has been discussed - that simply without the army, without the mobile centers of the army it will be a big problem to ensure. There's just no capacity. And we have to realize that we have 11 sampling centers in the county. Many of them are in two shifts. But we have one basic problem. By not being an emergency, and hospitals are basically going in full power, so it's a big problem to allocate to all those collection centers also those paramedics, because of course they have to do their job in hospitals and it's not at all easy. So he really isn't trivial at all. And in my opinion, if we have a burned-out outbreak like we have in Karvina right now, I really think there should be some systemic approach to asking for the help of the military at a time when there's no emergency, because there's no way we can do it without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. But they've multiplied, so Mrs Pekarová will wait for Adamová. Now Mr Ivan Bartoš, then Mr Zdeněk Podal, then Mr Minister of Health. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u22	I originally did not want to perform here, I wanted to spare the Minister, but when Mr Vondrák added here through Mr President... We're not in February 2020, we're in July. And it seems to me that I've heard this before, that I heard it in February, then sometime in March, then that we're planning a plan that we're increasing capacity here. But now we're talking about the absolutely trivial thing we've been dealing with in March of this year! We solved the first wave, the government is suffocating about preparing for the second wave, Mr Vondrák talks about it through Mr President that hospitals are tearing at seams, you say they are not breaking down, the capacity in the Karvinska region is 500 tests a day. So what did you do about it? So what's the plan now that we're dealing with the fact that we're unable to collect 200 samples from patients who are going into surgery and have to subpoena ambulances? That's the non-systemic approach. That's why we wanted the testing strategy for the 30th, which is what we're counting on here. There is no new occurrence in Karvinsko or Karviná. That's what we had here when the first patients appeared in certain regions, we had a daily increase in the order of units, and we didn't make it. Then the capacity went up, then there was an exercise on the field testing. And if we can't test 8,000 employees down in the region in a few days, then I think that's a major problem. And there was an initiative that was at the beginning of the entire covid, there were reports about it on TV - laboratories against coronavirus - where faculty hospitals, when organizations that are not private, actually came up with a way to test massively. You say "massively test" and you talk about hundreds. Those hospitals talked about being able to make a thousand a day with new methods. And, of course, they turned it off because the state didn't plug them in. And now you're talking about private labs. Please, let's not repeat the same story at the beginning of the year when we have half of 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u23	Mr President, your time for a point of fact has come to an end. Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Zdeněk's factual comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u24	Hello, thank you for your word. I'll take it from the other end. I want to express my great support and thanks to Professor Prymul. Not only because we are both from Hradec Králové and I know him, but because of him, we got a head start from the coming pandemic, I hope we all realize that. He also helped health management manage the pandemic. He was the one who prevented community spread. Every general is dead today, we can see that today. At the beginning of the pandemic, the company was shocked, and it was a good thing there was someone who led us through stormy waters based on high expertise. Yes, some statements have aroused disapproval of politicians, but there is still time to evaluate them. Let's take a step back, but we can thank you now. I thank him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr. Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam, will prepare a colleague Bartošek, also with a factual remark. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u26	Thank you for the floor. Speaking of precision, and that fellow Pirates have the exact data as it is, I don't know where President Bartoš found that the capacity in the Moravian-Silesian Region is 500 tests a day. You said 500 tests said there was capacity, and only yesterday, 2,202 tests were done two days ago in the Moravian-Silesian region. So not 500 tests, but really over 2,000 tests per day. So just enough to really set the numbers straight. They are like state laboratories within the Institute of Health in Ostrava, which I think is the greatest certainty in this regard, but also, of course, other private laboratories. But indeed more than 2,000 a day. So that's what the first fact needs to be said. Second fact. Of course, what the Governor said here is true. We need to involve the military, and we've plugged it in. We have engaged her in testing both her time at the Dole Darkov and now at the Dole of Czechoslovak Youth South, North. There were mobile collection teams of the army that were very helpful, and the system works this way. So we're not talking about two ambulances to the edge. Yes, this is, of course, some support from the region, but we are talking about the fact that if we have a local outbreak where we need to test thousands of people at once, we are ready for it, we have mobile teams of the Czech Army that are able to participate. The only really technical and legal problem right now is ending the emergency situation, although the army still worked some time after that. We now need to approve a new mandate for the Czech Army for the nearest government on Monday so that it can continue to function. She ended the operation last week, I think, officially, so now the government's gonna decide again. Government regulations had to be prepared in this direction, and the army is ready to continue to cooperate with us. She worked on Darkov, worked on OKD, within the outbreak. But of course, the military isn't supposed to be used for standard testing every day. The army is to be used for testing within local outbreaks of the disease and it is happening, it works and it has worked very well within OKD and we will be working on it in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u27	I'm sorry, Minister. I forgot to tell you that you overstepped the point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u28	Oh, I'm sorry, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u29	I'm sorry about the whole House, it won't happen to me again. You have the right to claim priority rights, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u30	It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u31	I'll watch you more. Now, colleague Jan Bartošek with a factual remark, then colleague Ivan Bartoš, Bohuslav Svoboda and colleague Vondrák. Those are factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u32	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I understand that you've invited a worker from the County Hygiene Station to help you with your health care. I guess you need help arguing. It is important to me whether you also called the representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of Karvina, if you also called the other side, which is more critical of what is happening, if you spoke to them, when you spoke to them, or if you responded to their call. That's important to me. The second thing is whether you consider testing in Karvinsko sufficient in the current number. I wasn't talking about shutting down Karvinsko. I was talking when you mentioned Germany here, the German approach, whether the whole of Karvinsko should be tested across the board so that we could have hard data to know who is sick. And if you're talking about two thousand tests, it seems very little to me! Dirty! It's a tribal number! Seems like a neglect of the situation to me. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, your coalition partner, is very critical of this. You didn't listen to him when Vice-President Hanzel was talking? He was listening. [[Prime Minister Babiš's note.]] And the Prime Minister is indirectly communicating with me. I'm afraid I won't respond when someone's talking to me from behind, on my shoulders. I expect answers, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Bartoš, with a point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u34	I have a bad number here sometime at the previous meeting, which is why I'm very careful now that the minister doesn't film me at any number. I was talking about the Karvin region. I think it's in the log. That's about how much? 260,000 people in that area, and I was talking about the capacity of 500 tests for that region. I am pleased to hear from Mr Vondrák here towards the Minister that the assistance of the army in testing would be beneficial in the area, so I hope that it will be strengthened there. And I'm still looking at the reality of the committee meeting. So if it's all good and we have a chance to test it there, why are we running tests on all OKD employees and family members in ten days? I still assume if there is some risk traffic, and there it has been shown that the disease is spreading there, why it has not taken place from the rest of the Republic, where it is fine, as you said yourself, where it lies a fallow, where the capacity is not used, and within some strategic plan - I am concerned with the plan and strategy - there simply have not been more people sent to the region and complete testing of employees and family members has not been carried out, and this was promised only after the media discovered that due to the situation in Karvinsk, Čech will not be able to go abroad on vacations. Sounds like the saddest fact to me. And the reality that we can't test 8,000 people somewhere in relatively fast time and it's being tested in real hundreds just doesn't match the story the minister here is telling us. And I think it's quite obvious, and the numbers tested versus the number of employees of OKD and other mines in the area simply say that you're not telling the truth, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, with a factual remark, will be prepared by colleague Ivo Vondrák, then a colleague of Černohorský - all with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to say the thing I think I see as principle. We're dealing with something here that we're actually dealing with wrong. We're talking about what's not done or what's not done. We're not talking about how this plan to be handled when a local bearing is created should have been done in advance. We talked about it, that there must be absolutely clear steps to be taken. And I can see today that we're only dealing with those steps when it came to it. That's what I think is a fundamental flaw in the government and a fundamental mistake in the Ministry that at this stage there isn't someone here to tell us, you and those steps are taking according to the plan that it is, they have this and that time factor and their outputs are clear. Also, nobody tells us what tests are used, which is a very crucial thing because we learn that we have a number of patients who are primarily negative and then positive. Sure, they could've gotten infected in the meantime. Isn't it a mistake to use a type of test? That's an open question. Of course I'm interested in the crucial thing, that the situation is actually relatively easy. Those patients are easy to run. But that may not last long, that may change. Nobody knows, colleague. Nobody knows, and the flu does. What's crucial is that everyone gets that information about whether there's a positive or a negative. How does a smart quarantine work when you actually learn the result of the testing in five days, seven days, ten days? What's that for? That's unprepared. This is unprepared because the answer to this must be relatively very quickly, but it must be such that we can rely on it, it means that a good test is used. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr Ivo Vondrák, with a factual remark, will prepare his colleague Černohorskýý with a factual remark, then a duly registered colleague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u38	Hello, thank you. I also like accurate data, so I can tell exactly how many were tested. At a time when, say, the first wave, we set out to build the maximum demand capacity we can, and also the maximum number of sampling points. Those 2,000 tests, to Mr Bartošek through Mr President, are one of the highest ever in the Czech Republic. That's just what it is at the moment. And every system has its own physical capabilities. You just can't start opening new labs. So in other words, we get from 1. 7. 1,700 protested, 2. 7. 1,900, 3. 7. 1,900, then it was weekend four. 7. 753, 5. 7. 905 - there were ambulances, so only the ambulances were taken away, the mobile centers took 410 tests, yes. 6. 7. 652, 7. 7. 1,300, but still, if you look at the graphs, and I can show you, there's a lot waiting in line. [[shows]] That means they're not being tested because the lab's capacity can't handle it anymore. But please, that's due to the physical possibilities of the labs. Plus, some of the labs blacked out during the weekend. They just lost the machines they have. In other words, every system has its own physical options. And you can't build a capacity here for 10,000 tested and then just not use it. It's just not possible. You have to organize it in some way, and that's the only way. And there's, of course, statistics on how many hospitals are tested, so in those hospitals, it's a third of the collections. A third, that means, these are the patients who come there who just have to be treated there. So this, too, is what it takes out some sort of sampling capacity. So I'd say it's not like it wasn't tested. It's not like there's no place to test. We've got the opposite problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u39	Mr. Ambassador, your time has ended for a point of fact. And I ask you, although I am tolerating myself today, that you do not abuse factual remarks. You are making it impossible for those duly registered to speak in the debate, including those who have priority rights. Now a colleague of Černohorský, with a factual remark, will be prepared by colleague Richterová, also with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u40	So thank you for your word. So I'm going to stand up for the Minister. Mrs Hygiene, through Mr President to Mr Bartošek, we asked the Minister together with Mr Luzar. It's not like his wish, but it was our wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u41	Thank you. That was a point of fact. Now, a colleague, Richterová, with a point of fact. Before the counter comes, I state Mr Pavel Staněk's apology between 10:30 and 12:00 p.m. and Minister Schillerová, who is excused for working reasons throughout the day. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u42	Really, really, really, really, really. Mr. Governor and Mr. Vondrák have just said that every system has its own physical capabilities. And precisely because we are aware of this in the Pirates, we have been trying to attract attention since basically mid-March in Karvinsko and then since May here in the House to realize the necessary capacities. And that's why I just want to point out that it hasn't actually been answered how the key part of the strategic testing plan is actually being completed, namely how the necessary capacities will be provided. We all know that people's physical options aren't... it's not possible to change from day to day, but we just have July, we're not in March, and that's our key question. As the necessary capacity and capacity relocation from other regions is ensured, from places where there is no problem, to places where rapid action is needed, this plan is missing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u43	Thank you. And I was looking forward to my colleague Adamová getting the floor, but it's not. Now a colleague of Vít Kaňkovský, then a colleague of Mašek with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u44	Good morning, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna pick up on my colleague Richterová and other colleagues. It is precisely on the subject of testing that we have long pointed out, and not only here at plenary, that this is the central role that awaits us towards the next possible wave or the local focal points. We drew attention to this in repeated meetings of the Central Crisis Staff and there, together with Professor Matějka, who was nominated for the pirát, we called for better use of the capacity of academic laboratories. The academic labs were mobilized very quickly. They were able to make practically all of their PCR techniques available. They were able to put 250 employees at their disposal, and they quickly increased the capacity of possible tests to 3,000 per day. Unfortunately, throughout the first wave, or with some slight fluctuations, this capacity was used by academic laboratories from 10 to 20 percent. And I ask and call on the government to see how it has the opportunity to mobilize these academic laboratories again, and how it is in this testing plan, how it is envisaged. Because if the Moravian-Silesian region has full capacity at the moment, and I don't blame the Governor, the local outbreak has now occurred, then we are able to mobilize those laboratories in other parts of our republic, including those academic laboratories. And it's kind of a connection, and we can basically try to figure out how fast we can mobilize it, because there may be more of these local outbreaks over time. So this is a question for the Minister: how is it handled by academic laboratories and how is this taken into account in the testing plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Jiří Mašek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have to respond here. We're talking about some of the bearings in our republic. It could be Kutná Hora, it could be Holice in Bohemia, there were higher incidence deposits everywhere. It's been handled locally, a particular firm has closed, it's been tested, it's gone. Carvina is a bigger bearing. It's a bigger problem. But from the numbers that we call ourselves here today, we have 4.5,000 positives in the Czech Republic. We have 135 people in hospitals and only 24 of them in serious condition. Reciprocally, if we recalculate it, it's some proportional percentage in Karvinsk. It's not a tragic situation. And design types, let the mobile teams from the Republic move to Karvina etc., that's total nonsense. Mobile teams were therefore beginning to investigate those with clinical symptoms, and we didn't want to bring the disease to hospitals. So I absolutely don't share these views. Of course, it's wrong if people find out they're positive, late. But I don't think those cases are. And if they are, they're individual. And if anyone finds out four days later that it's negative, it's not quite right, but basically nothing's happening. The situation in Karvinsko is currently improving. We know that by the numbers, based on the development of the newly infected. I'd like to ask that we don't really turn this thing into politics. I am convinced that it can be done and that the test capacity would certainly be possible if it were higher, perhaps it would be worth transporting the samples to other parts of the Republic for examination, but then we will not be able to fulfill the fact that the results will be on time. Of course, there'll be weekends when the academic workplaces don't work. Let's look at this with reason. The situation is evolving somehow. And it's evolving in a good direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u47	So, colleague, thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, with Mrs Pekarová's priority right, Adamová, then Mr Vít Rakušan, and then Mrs Rážová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u48	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, dear fellow Members, I am quite glad that this debate has taken place in the end, because I have at least had the opportunity to do a number of things that are important and that I, too, wanted to know the answers to, so to hear how the Minister has responded here and others. I think it's crucial that we go back a few months. So right to the beginning, the very beginning, when the first confirmed case appeared with us, which was March 1st. And I think that those four and some months, when at first we actually stopped all life in the Republic - and, as you know, I will remind you that there will be no accusations that we are just criticizing, so even then most of the parties, I dare say to all the parties, we have agreed with these measures, often very radically. We called on fellow citizens to respect them, and we said that they were simply necessary. In particular, it was necessary, and that was also the main reason for the argument that we would therefore prepare everything necessary to be able to prevent uncontrolled spread of the disease, so that we could be at the level of capacity to cope with the situation. [[10.40 hours]] So we're very expensive, really expensive, remember what we approved here yesterday, bought time. And we should have used that time as efficiently as possible. And now it is also fair to ask, after more than four months, whether the time has been used effectively and whether we are ready and whether the reaction capabilities of all the participating components involved and which belong to the system are also very fast with the experience we have, with what we had the opportunity to prepare. And I would like to appreciate that many of these files work, but it's still not 100%, and we're still picking up a lot of things that are still wrong. Therefore, I would expect a little more humility from the Minister of Health on this particular case, the focus that we are discussing most here in Karvinska and in Karvina itself. Because it certainly happened there that the plague spread among the miners unnecessarily for a long time. Let us remember that by the beginning of May, the first cases of people who were working in mines and who were tested positively were already more than 80 cases, new cases that were then mapped. You can find it in the press, it's easy to track. Despite the fact that they were dozens of people and despite the conditions of work in such operations, this state-run enterprise was not closed down. I find this completely incomprehensible, and I consider it a complete failure. If we remember, maybe kindergartens closed because of one single case, so one of the teachers was infected. Or if only one of the parents had a disease and drove their children to that kindergarten, they were already preemptively quarantined, you'll find a lot of such cases around the Republic. A lot of companies that have responded in such an impromptu way. And here, there was the fact that the people in the hundreds were still working, they were still in those cramped conditions that they obviously have at work there, and they just had to spend all of their time together, which - and with the possibilities of protective equipment there, which are practically impossible, so of course the disease had to spread. And what did they then learn? They learned that it was their fault that they went out for beer after work, that it spread like this. Those who have spoken these statements should apologize for this, because I consider it absolutely outrageous. It's just that the state here should have reacted much sooner, and I would have expected that recognition from the minister here, and we wouldn't have laundered him for that, it's just that mistakes can happen. But it's important to be able to admit them and apologize for them. As for the number of tests that are being examined here, please remember the words - let us go back to the time when we still had an emergency, when we have discussed the whole issue very often here on a number of extraordinary points or extraordinary meetings, such as the promises we have heard here. The promises made by the Prime Minister and other actors were that the tests would be 10 and gradually up to 20,000 a day. That was a promise that's easy to trace again, because it's the words that were said here at the counter, and so we can all find them when it was promised that the situation would happen. And now look at the statistics that the Health Department itself gives, look at the graph, and you'll find that 10,000 has never been filled. The border licked tight, so it was just over 9,900, but it was definitely never 20,000 tests a day. We really didn't. And it didn't even happen at a time when the plague was still in a lot more fires and so it needed to be taken more under control. And now that it's a few local outbreaks, the test capacities that we're given here are just not enough to control whether there really are even more people who may not even be a symptom, but they just have the disease and can spread it further. And I think that it should be improved, changed, and that we should still bear in mind that this is simply the most effective thing to do in the entire fight against the disease. That means more testing. I appeal that we go in the form of those tests that are of good quality, so that we don't know that actually many of these cases were proven negative just because they had poor quality tests, that they were used by those rapid tests or other junks. Smart quarantine - a big topic that we have heard here as a great solution to the whole problem. It is also mentioned on the Ministry's website, which is a tool to rid us of all possible measures and obscenities so that we can get back to normal life and yet have the disease under control, yet they could be sure that the situation will not happen again from the beginning of the whole occurrence of coronavirus, whether in our country or elsewhere. And even though we once again wanted more information about the whole system here in the Chamber of Deputies, we wanted even, I remind you, to set up a commission to deal with data management in this tool, because many people are afraid to give consent to the use of smart quarantine precisely because they are worried about their data, so logically this could contribute to the fact that they have more confidence that there is control over it, that it will not be misused and that they do not have to worry about getting involved in such a system at all. That was rejected, rejected, specifically on April 21, when I suggested it here. I also proposed the inclusion of an extraordinary point in this instrument. He was rejected again. And I've been asking for more information on April 7th, and we still don't get it in any detail. It's still just very piecey, general, information that doesn't exactly lead to trust, whether citizens or us, to the fact that the instrument is really functional, and we're getting information that it's just not functional and that there's no people who would follow it. Read from last week's statements by both Mr. Epidemiologist Maďar and, I believe, Mr. Governor and Mr. Vondrák mentioned this, who said that the problem is simply that there are no people who would quickly be able to erase the area of those infected, or those who met them. And according to the government's Health Research Officer - Mr Prymula's new post - there is a pretty good way of tracing contacts with those infected in Karvinsko - I quote. Well, that doesn't calm me down at all. I think that even the citizens who live in that area, because when they live in the entire region, they cannot be reassured by such information. And I want to ask you, where is the solution now, which will be to avoid further outbreaks, to avoid spreading from the already existing outbreaks, so that we can be sure that the smart quarantine is not just a delightful instrument that is presented here, it has a nice name, but it is actually a misleading advertising - I remind you that it is prohibited by law - so we should rename it and remove it from that name. I'm not saying we have to give the name stupid quarantine right now, but maybe it'll get better. I think that only the contribution of Vice-President Hanzel has shown that there is no such consensus in the government, in the government, on how well the situation is handled, how well it is in all these files in Karvinsko and in Karviné itself about handling the situation. So, please, so that we really get to the essential information here right now, and that we have information about exactly how, without the military's involvement today, the smart quarantine is working and whether - if it says here they're ready, then whether it's already called. I've heard that's the problem last week in the exact statements made by Mr. Epidemiologist Maďar. So we're here a week later. Has there been any movement? Has there been any attempt to involve her today? And if there's a problem in legislation, it's probably a reference to the fact that there's a law prepared by the government that should be amended or an amendment to the Public Health Act. It is interesting how the government first referred to this amendment as a solution, after the emergency has ended, as the whole issue and the opportunity to quickly stand up to such outbreaks. But all of a sudden, her hearing isn't pushing forward at all. I think there are a number of unanswered questions here, a number of question marks, and especially in the area of precisely clever quarantine, it is also a whole range of scope for improving the whole system so that we can actually call it clever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u49	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. With the factual remark of my colleague Josef Hájek and prepared by my colleague Rakušan, then Dr Rážová. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I originally wanted to get off at the end. Probably all of you who've only seen miners on TV talking about it so I can respond to you. But I just can't stand it. Mrs Pekarová here, through the President, criticised that the shafts should have been closed earlier. I deal with the miners, I talk to them. I know what measures were taken there. Every janitor measured their temperatures, everyone was wearing masks, the maximum available means, probably even a health worker will talk about them. And what happened? Eighty percent of the flagless miners! 80 percent! We've been following the rules here, too, in some way. Did we follow them 100%? I say no. So advise me, Mrs Pekarová, through Mr President, on how to ensure that 80 per cent of the unmarked miners are found. Darkov came, then went to the CSM at random, where they found out it was 20 percent. Here Professor Prymula spoke, here he was praised that the best measure would be an undersea. That's where the sea is, whether we want it or not. That's what's happening. The Minister said experience from Poland, where a group of infected miners were before closing, and after opening the shaft that number remained the same. That means we're gonna solve the problem temporarily for five weeks now, but 100% nobody, not the minister, not me, not you, will guarantee that there's no contagion anywhere. It's warm downstairs, there's a virus. There's a virus in Germany in the cooling meats. That means we can't guarantee this 100%, and we should be aware of that, on the other hand, there are a number of things that we should change, which we need to work out, and let's discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u51	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. One more point in fact, Mrs Pekarová, then Mr Válek. My colleague, the Rakušan, will wait. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u52	Thank you for the floor. However, I think that we are absolutely in agreement, through the President, my colleague. What I'm saying is, you can't just follow those measures, like separation. Like you think only those who were in the shaft can imagine how it works there? I don't want to put any of these miners in my mouth at all. On the contrary. I think that they were in this absolutely without any protection to continue using what they were doing. Yes, they may have a disease without symptoms, but if the disease continues to spread and then, of course, it spreads to their loved ones and other family members, then we all just feel that it's not right. And if there's a new strategy for the oceanization now, then I haven't heard it from the official authorities yet that this is the direction. Yes, I remember Mr Prymula's statement, which then caused a very quick turn, when the Minister, Prime Minister, began to respond to it the very next day, that this is not the strategy that the Czech Republic would go through, and so we can all find out when it was. So this position has changed? Has this government strategy changed? There's never been anything like this. And I think that if we're shutting down other sites because of one, two or only a few suspicions and a few infected, that's when there were dozens of them, that should have been done. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Vlastimil Válek's factual remark, a colleague of Čižinský, then a colleague of Hájek, will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u54	I'll be very brief. Thank you, Mr President, and by your means, I am not a rat, I am an amateur speleologist and I have a clear idea of the difference between the hole and the Chamber of Deputies and what can be observed in the hole and what can be observed in the Chamber of Deputies. However, I think it's useless for emotions to cloud us, to pinch it. One brief answer from the Minister is enough. We had everything under control in Karvina from the beginning. We were based on what we learned during those two months, we were doing exactly the right thing, and the next time a new outbreak appears, we will proceed exactly the same way in Karvina in line with the region. Or variant B, we made this, this, this mistake, we learned from that, and the next time we do it this way and so on. I don't see the problem. It's very simple. This isn't about politics. We just want to know if Karviné's procedure was a premeditated, premeditated procedure that followed. If so, clearly, a message for everyone, if there is any outbreak elsewhere, will proceed as in Karvina or in Karvinsko - I hope I haven't offended anyone. Or variant B, this, this, this, this was wrong, based on the experience we gained there, we're going to change that, and next time this is going to be different. I don't see the problem. It's really a non-conflict matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual remark made by my colleague Čižinský. A colleague of Hájek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u56	Thank you. The debate raised two questions in me. One question for the Minister, if we're really soaking up in Karvinska, that would be good to say out loud. And then the debate, too, I'd like to ask the Minister and the Prime Minister where we stand with the development of the vaccine. As we started, as we were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of Hájek with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u58	Mr President, colleagues, I respond both to Mrs Pekarová through Mr President and Mr Čižinský. The government's strategy certainly doesn't talk about the ocean, nor is it. But nature is often stronger than us, i.e. no one, or almost nobody, showed signs of infection. As they performed the radial testing and temperature measurements, they walked in respirators, in masks. The miner's job was to get the respirator that was used to capture dust in the lamp room. That means, even though they were in contact, they used a respirator to protect them or protect the transmission. That means it didn't work. That means the virus was symptomsless and infected 20 percent of the population. You're the doctors here. There's been an oceanization, hasn't there? From my layman's point of view, yes. If there's a transmission of 20 percent, how are we going to guarantee that it can't increase to 30, 40, 50? It can. I'm a minister, so none of us are, or I'm a minister, so I can't guarantee it. Please, let us be aware of this and discuss this in the future, what to improve, how to improve, how to improve the possibility of intensive deployment, for example, testing within the Republic, transferring capacity, moving people. I understand that. I would like to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u59	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and we can return to applications. Now Mr. Vít Rakušan with priority rights, then Dr. Rážová, the main health care professional of the Czech Republic. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u60	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to the Vice-President Hanzel Chamber of Deputies. Here he pointed out one very important thing: Stigmatization of a region because there was an outbreak. Pointing to that one region in the Czech Republic - because of you we cannot travel, we are at risk, we have somewhere to prove that we are not infected, one region is responsible. That's just the way to hell. And I also agree that the media headlines - Karviná is responsible for the fact that we can't go anywhere - are just awful. I understand him as the former mayor. That's just a thing every regional patriot has to say no to, but every reasonable person has to say no to. Because stigmatizing the sick, whatever the disease is, is simply something that doesn't belong in a civilized country. And the people who infected themselves with the disease got infected with covid, so neither of them would want to get infected with the covid. And, as my colleague Hájek said, it just happened incredibly quickly in those mines, and the miners were unable to follow the measures that hygiene is theoretically dictating somewhere. [[11.00 hours]] So great awards and great support for the entire region. Just one region isn't to blame. And we can talk about another region in 14 days, in a month, in two, in three, and it won't be as much as Karvinsko and the Moravian-Silesian Region are. At this point, I would like to appreciate party membership, non-partisan jurisdiction, and the work of Mr. Governor, local mayors, local authorities, because they are simply trying to handle the situation well. And I'm not surprised at the determination of people at this point in time to follow those measures after we've been through the whole state with these dimensional measures. And now they're coming into a phase where they're just forced to go back to some regime where none of us in this state felt comfortable, so it's just hard. And, of course, it's up to local authorities to show how they can work with their residents, how to convince them to calm the situation so that the epidemic doesn't spread. However, allow me to comment critically on how the Ministry of Health has behaved. It's been extremely slow. 19 days. 5. They wrote an open letter to the representatives of the Pirate Party and the Mayors and Independent - we have a joint representative club in Karviná - both to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Health, an open letter in which 19. 5. called for the following: surface testing of all employees of OKD, increased capacity for testing and accelerated information tested; possible cooperation with IT experts, pairing tested with subsequent data and so on. Another about five points that were contained in this open letter of 19. 5. It was handed to me by the representative for STAN Petr Letocha, the Karvin representative. I immediately intersected both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister in writing. They took their time with the answer. She came in about a month. I see. They've got a lot of other work to do. A reply full of general language, numbers, provisions, administrative authority in accordance with the provision issued exceptional measures and similar. But it turns out clearly that the real work wasn't done here. Mr. Secretary, you were at a meeting with the local mayors. It was some sort of video conferencing, if I'm not mistaken. I hope they weren't supposed to be leaking any information. Read their opinions. And they're not mayors for starosta and independents. The mayors, many times without party jurisdiction, who simply say: the ministry communicates slowly, does not do so. And you, the Teflon Minister of Health, always smiling, always from the beginning of the crisis, giving information with such a slight smile on your lips, how it actually works here, and we're handling it all. But the situation is getting worse. You just didn't help the local authorities, they've handled the situation many times in spite of you. Why are you waiting three days for the test results? Why does the mayor have an indication in one village that he has 50 infected people, and the next day he has an indication of hygiene without any justification, even though he is looking for only 20? It'll drop by 30 in a day. Was one of those data bad? One right? And please stop acting like a government when it works in this country and it has succeeded, and it has certainly succeeded, causing the contagion in the Czech Republic not to spread like Italy, so it is simply applauding the government. So the government is the one who's responsible for all the good it's done. Well, at a time when there's a problem, we hear from the Prime Minister that it's the hygiene that didn't handle the situation. Just the responsibility for success, it's for the government, the responsibility for failure is not for the government. And after all, we're gonna send the Minister of Health who always has a nice way of explaining it. But the message doesn't have content many times. Mr. Secretary, you've neglected this, the development is slow. We were with the pirát, and STAN was alerted on May 19th. May 19th! What's your reaction? What is your response to the fact that at that moment we demanded a general test, an increase in capacity from regions where there is no disease? What have you done since May 19th? Show us exactly what the performance was like. Pirates and STAN pointed it out, you didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u61	Thank you. Mrs Jarmila Rážová, Mrs. Pavla Golasowská, will now appear as Chief Hygiene. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this debate today for the opportunity to speak. Furthermore, I would like to say that we and my colleague Svrčinová are taking note of some of the suggestions that lead us to do this, or that they will lead us to do the national testing strategy so that we can be well prepared for any autumn wave, so we will note them as stimulating comments. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to repeat how many cases there are. But I would like to say that the situation in Karviné is due to the fact that there has just been a massive testing of those employees downstairs OKD. I won't just say miners, because among the positives, which are 704 of the massive testing in those two mines, and I would leave those specific numbers to my colleague Pavla Svrčinová, because it's her or the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region, which was responsible for these investigations. The vast majority of the miners, sorry, the employees of the OKD, are without symptoms. However, the epidemic is really localized, because the vast majority of those other sick people sought out by the county health department with the help of other workers of other county health stations during those eleven days actually the work of the epidemiological inquiry, there were more than 1,100 of them, I sometimes run away in thoughts, so they call themselves using the tools of the so-called so-called clever quarantine. This means de facto electronic tools that help, instead of phones will record it, it is de facto a phone, but with a recording device that we know during that time since 21. 6. to 7. 5. the regional sanitation station, its employees and colleagues from the second sanitary stations called 7 163 calls, on average a daily call of 477,5 calls to a total of 730 telephone hours. That means they contacted both the infected and their contacts. They made a call, sought out other possible contacts. And these 730 hours actually represent the month of the call. And it's in the range of 21. 6. to 7. 5. So it's one of those tools. And we, as the chief hygienist, were able to help colleagues at the county health station deal with the relatively large increase, logically from that massive testing, number of contacts, cases, so that they could call colleagues, for example, from Ústí nad Labem, from České Budějovice, from Tábor, from other regional health stations and help as quickly as possible to get into quarantine all those persons who were in contact with the positives of this massive testing. This succeeded because basically there was more done than - a total of 2 799 people in quarantine according to the Czech Social Security Administration as at 6. 7. And actually in the Moravian-Silesian Region at this time 1,598 quarantine in the Czech Social Security Administration - above all - because it is not, of course it is not just for covid, we have to realize this here, but it is actually for all diseases. And at the same time, people who don't, of course, get sick leave fall out. Another legal person who can grant quarantine is the Regional Hygiene Station and the decision in the week of 22. 6. to 28. 6. Granted by decision, she quarantined 949 persons and at the next week 1,380. So, together, they made a decision to 2 329 people. [[11.10 hours]] The system, which has been created since March, thus leads de facto, should lead, has proved to be in a crisis state that certain central management of a fully decentralised health care pays off in crisis situations. And actually, in less than 12 days, we've been at the Ministry, a team of people who work there, or now some of them have just worked there, so they've actually been created, we've achieved electronization to some extent, we've connected all the inputs that are entering the epidemic and its solution, i.e. Labs, we've got county sanitation stations, partially inputs of all systems that have formed regions faster, but through electronic interfaces, data gets into the system. The system was created within, say, less than three weeks. I'm not going to pretend that he has some flaws, but minor operational errors that we're gradually removing. And at a time when they were not, when the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic calmed down, we are in cooperation with the Army of the Czech Republic, which cooperated with us on the Smart Quarantine 1.0 project until 30. 6., and now he is cooperating with us on the basis of the interdepartmental agreement we have on cooperation, so we are trying with the IHIS negotiations with the regions to tighten the system so that both laboratories and other players are ready for any fall wave. Not everything goes as fast as we would have imagined. For example, we are removing some mistakes that are particularly burdensome to my colleagues, i.e. workers in health care stations, where one indication that there are more systems into which this data goes to get into the basic system, which is the information system of infectious diseases, where, on the basis of, when there appears that someone is positive, only the health care professional can start carrying out and conduct epidemiological investigations and start tracking contacts, so that the indication of any patient or person coming from the laboratory confirmed the result of positiveness, and I will start looking for contacts so that they do not have to insert these data about the person up to four times. Now we've managed to connect the Daktela, the calling system, to the ISINEM. It leads to a certain acceleration and we're trying to improve it. At the same time, we are trying to reach and coordinate and these are responses towards the pirát to levels of emergency in public health. We have them ready, we have to present them to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 July. At the same time, we agree that the national testing strategy corresponds not only to these alert levels in public health, but also to the clinical requirements and requirements of clinics and infectologists on how to diagnose themselves and how many tests will be used both for testing the general population but, in particular, how many tests per thousand, for example, for citizens who are in risk groups. So we're working very hard on this with the teams that we have at the Ministry from experts and external or external, both from the laboratory sphere and from the clinical sphere. And, of course, we're working with epidemiologists. Finally, I would like to say that the work of epidemiologists is very important, responsible and we do not intend to take appropriate measures when dealing with really local outbreaks, so we always choose the epidemiological situation. Another thing that we still have and are preparing is the amendment of the type directive for crisis management. And what I want to emphasise very much, of course, is the emergency situation - it has been a great strengthening and there is always the possibility of helping the army and, in fact, the instruments of crisis management. The army can't help civilian forces out of emergency, so on Monday, the Ministry of Defence's material is going to the government together with the Ministry of the Interior to change the government's order so that it can be out of emergency. And some elements of the lesson learned from what we have learned and what we have learned during the resolution of the entire crisis, so we are doing some sort of lesson from the crisis development that should be reflected in the proposal that we put here 31. 7. or 30. 7., so also into the type directive of the epidemic - a mass occurrence of diseases. At the same time, we are also preparing a certain amendment to Act 258, whether it is called. Covidová, or the amendment to Law 258 as such. Thank you for the opportunity to perform. Excuse me, one more comment. It's a viral infection, transmitted through the respiratory route, as most of you know. Now it is spread especially in close contact and we are trying, so I must say for myself that both in the communications of the Ministry of Health and in my sometimes unfortunately the journalists will insert words that one has not said, so they will give them to me that I have said them. My goal is not to stigmatize anyone. But if I'm describing local outbreaks, I can't say anything other than that it's a Moravian-Silesian region. That's what I call the Central Bohemia Region. And when the media pulls it out, we're actually saying it a little bit later than she is, then there's nothing left to do but tell you where it is, because we'd look like we're hiding something. We certainly don't hide anything, we evaluate the situation, we monitor every day, we have, I think, very good epidemiologists and we evaluate the situation especially from an epidemiological point of view and so that there are unnecessary some interventions to avoid further economic intervention. Because I think we've been through this, and that if they can take local measures and in cooperation, for example. with the affected plant or business, so it is always better way than by closing large regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Chief Hygiene. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip will now perform with priority rights, and will also be prepared with priority rights by the Vice-President of the Pirates Club, Mr. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be quite brief because, in particular, Leo Luzar, who is from the region, will be speaking, and I am not going to interfere any more. However, I repeat what I said once before at an emergency meeting where we adopted a resolution that we are checking today that the last pandemic plan is from 2011, which did not count on the development of the COVID-19 pandemic at all, and we need to think about it. I therefore ask at least the Minister of Health, or the Government of the Czech Republic, to deal with this pandemic plan, to say the date by which we will change the individual items, to include existing companies or to re-integrate businesses into critical infrastructure that we will need in order to be able to respond to any adverse developments in the Czech Republic. I consider it essential. It has been said several times that we are not in March, that we are in July 2020, and that there is therefore a need to have a plan that would then be followed. I think that this is a serious matter and that it is a matter for the Government of the Czech Republic to present such a pandemic plan to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u65	Thank you. Mr Černohorský, representing the President of the Pirates Club, and then Mrs Golasowská, who has entered the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u66	Thank you for the floor. I'll give you a few questions. Now I don't know if the Minister will answer or if the Chief Hygiene will answer. So there was talk of a clever quarantine, and I was wondering if and how it made the job more effective for you, how long it takes you to track this one person down the classic path, that means paper and pencil, and how long it takes you to go through it using that clever quarantine when you're going through his individual contacts. Another is whether you always contact people after the sampling and the negative test, because it came to me that they were tested at the ČSA mine and they were told that if they didn't hear from them that day by 18 o'clock, so that they were negative, which I don't know, most of them interpreted so that they had a completely free regime, from which the rumor might have come, that they were all going to pubs and so on. The next question is, I also follow the press releases of OKD, in which they just stated that they set the system so that the individual shifts didn't meet at all, but according to the number of people infected, it's clear that the shifts had to happen somehow. Whether it is in your ability to find out where there may have been an error in this system. Because as it was said here, the plague can actually come back at any time, and it can happen at any other huge firm. Because OKD, the Moravian-Silesian region is very important from the economic point of view, so, for example, if there was this infection in the automotive sector, that is to say, in Hyundai or Škodovka, it would have fatal consequences for companies in the surrounding area. And then I wanted to ask you another question - you said that the number of people who are quarantined is partly based on information from the Czech Social Security Administration. But why isn't there some central registry or central records of people who have been quarantined, because if this person violates the quarantine, then where, who and how do you find out that this person is violating it, unless someone specifically rats him out, if I simplify it so much? So whether there's a possibility of some kind of control so that the person can't carry it out on purpose or unintentionally in some way. And that's probably, I don't know, the question for the Minister now. It has been said that hygiene must work with several systems, so that, in particular, these systems can be unified in order to simplify this work. And then I'd need some information on why only some OKD employees are at home, because most of those surface workers go to work. For example, specifically coal treatment, where there are about 800 to 1,000 people and contact is still ongoing there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u67	Thank you. Mrs Pavla Golasowská, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the situation in Karvinska. But before I do, I would like to comment on what the Minister of Health has said here, who said that we are probably here because the regional elections are coming up, and that he understands that. So I just want to say, Minister, that KDU-ČSL works all the time, even if there are no elections. And I can specifically say for myself that I am not running either for the county or for the Senate. I don't know about you guys, maybe it's a saying I'm judging you, but I can assure you we don't have it that way. Now, let me comment on the region of Karvinska. It's my region, and I'm proud of it. There's always been hard work, and I appreciate the hard work of miners and metallurgical workers. And as the previous speaker said here, we're a region of shock, and that's right. Maybe there's a tendency not to look at what was to look ahead. I'm sure that's wise, but I'd like to get back to the way things were going. I must say that the work of the miners is currently not particularly financially or socially appreciated. The days when the miners made the king's money are long gone. There's a slogan gone - I'm a raven and who's more? I'm sure we in our county remember that that's how it was. Now that the OKD has been affected by the pandemic, the state has decided in its own mining company to ignore the need to reduce mining. The havíř had to keep working and plowed into the mines together in cages, showered together in showers, changed in dressing rooms, had lunch together in dining rooms, drove to work together in buses. And all this without the possibility of separation or the possibility of actively using recommended procedures. It's just because it couldn't be done. That's all they had left if they didn't want to lose their job. They were even accused that they themselves were responsible for spreading the epidemic, which I consider to be an outrage. No one minded this situation, although the Mining Union Association had already warned the management of the company in March that working in the mine was extremely risky and impossible, by the very nature of this work, to follow the measures and recommendations, and suggested that work should be limited to the minimum safety. It didn't even matter to the Regional Hygiene Station in Ostrava, which said that everything OKD does is fine and sufficient. It didn't matter to the Department of Health who knew about the situation. There was no problem for anyone when the disease began to spread in the area of Darkov. It started to test in bulk when there were more than 20 positive cases. It was not until more than 100 positive cases appeared on the locality of ČSM. I will no longer discuss the matter of rapid testing, which is not very good, and also of the time when the tested were informed about the results of the tests, which often exceeded a week. I don't like the media putting miners in the role of carriers of dangerous diseases all over the country. I refuse to accept the statement that the miners are responsible for the situation. Then there's the question of who's responsible for the situation. Stop? Hygiene? The Ministry? Please give a clear answer from the government, the ministry, hygiene. We in our region would say who has the balls to apologize to the miners and face the situation. I must say that we should learn from this situation that those responsible who should have decided to close down early did not do so. So let's not blame the miners who went to work, put their lives on the line, and now they're media-minded as those who are responsible for the situation. [[11.30 hours]] The situation arises not only for miners and their families, but in a situation where anti-epidemiological measures are loosening up throughout the territory of the Republic, the obligation to wear drapes and other sanitary measures continues to apply in this region. Perhaps we should rejoice that the Minister of Health has not closed the region in cooperation with hygiene. But I don't think this joy is appropriate. After all, if those responsible were to act on time and the mines were to operate in the maintenance regime, the resulting situation would not have to be suffered by other residents, especially now in the summer, when wearing drapes is difficult for most of the population. Dear colleagues, in conclusion, I would like to table a resolution for the KDU-ČSL Club and ask that we vote on it. I will read the motion for a resolution: Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 56th meeting of 9 July 2020 on the point Checking the fulfilment of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 1162 of 4 June 2020 to evaluate the course of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave with the date of fulfilment of 30 June 2020 and government information on the current occurrence of COVID in local fires, especially in the Moravian-Silesian Region. And now the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is asking the government to quickly start dealing with the current situation in Karvinsko and to take such measures in particular in relation to the functioning of the smart quarantine, and thus the sufficient capacity of hygiene and testing sites, so that it is possible to track positive individuals as quickly as possible and thus avoid further uncontrolled spread of the disease." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u69	Thank you, ma'am. Now in the general debate, Mr Marek will speak Výborný. Mr Jakub Janda will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, I am not, or I am not from the Moravian-Silesian Region, which is why I might now give the Minister of Health a little rest and concentrate, or I would turn your attention to the first part of this point, because we are here, and I think that is absolutely justified, the current situation in Karvinsko. Colleagues have spoken about this in very detailed terms. When I look at the next performer, I assume he'll come back to it, too. I very much understand Mr Hanzel's speech, former mayor Karviné, because that would really raise every mayor of the present and the past, every citizen, if his city, the village, were presented in this way and in the media. I understand Mr. Governor Vondrák's speech, because the attacks towards the county, to the regional representation, are really not appropriate here. But I would really like to focus briefly on the first part, and that means checking the implementation of the resolution, on the one hand, to evaluate the first wave and also to be prepared to prevent any second wave, which, of course, can never be completely excluded. We see that we are already dealing with some local outbreaks of the COVID-19 pandemic. There is a saying that anyone who is ready is not surprised. KDU-ČSL draws attention to this from the very beginning. We have repeatedly warned over the past three months that it is necessary not only to address the current situation, which has sometimes been better, sometimes worse for the government, but also to work with prevention and with the necessary steps for the future. That is why I will also allow you to imagine four points of the motion for a resolution that would address this, and I will try to briefly describe the substantive intentions of this resolution here. The first thing concerns the solution to central purchases and distribution of medical material. Finally, it was the Minister, and it was the government itself, which pointed out that it was very problematic to buy these supplies at a time out of emergency. And we have been waiting and waiting for the government to present some solution that would allow, for example, the State Administration of Material Reserves to actually and out of emergency conditions, outside the crisis law regime, to buy supplies and be ready for possible further waves of pandemics. Unfortunately, the government seems to be doing nothing in my view. When the funds were due yesterday in the context of the State Budget Act, and if I am not mistaken, it was the Government Member, Mr Votava, who submitted this proposal, that was rejected by the government coalition. So, not even the funds that were to be allocated to the Ministry of the Interior's Ministry of State's material reserves for the need for prevention, which could be really needed in the autumn, the government rejected it. We believe that there is indeed a need for legislative adjustments to simplify the purchases of the State Physical Reserve Administration. And I am calling for the KDU-ČSL club, but also for other opposition political parties, because in this we are clearly in agreement that if the government does not bring a solution over the summer, then we have it here on the table, we could introduce it today, a parliamentary amendment to the Act on the jurisdiction of the Administration of State Material Reserves, which virtually. which responds precisely to the possibility of accelerated purchase of medical supplies so that we are prepared for this. The second issue concerns, in general, pandemic legislation. Here I think it's about the readiness again, the prevention. On the one hand, the Government of 7 May 2020 presented a proposal for a Government Act on Emergency Measures in the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, an 859 House press. And here I would like to hear the reaction of the Minister of Health, because it is largely about his department, and I feel that the press is dead, or the government is doing absolutely nothing to approve the law. At this point, I think it is really too late, because the law had limited effectiveness proposed by the end of 2020. I would like to know whether the government has resigned to the legislative readiness for a possible second wave in autumn 2020, or how the government wants to address it. And please don't tell me the Home Office is preparing an amendment to the Constitutional Law on State Security. That's good, of course. But I'd like to know some results. I'll talk about it in a minute, too. But we all know that this is an amendment to the Constitutional Law, which has to go through some standard legislative process. The government didn't have the ambition to deal with it, and it can't, under some kind of crisis condition. And that's not something that solves any problems in the fall of 2020. It's good that we can evaluate the experience from the last three months. It is good that we are able to really reflect these experiences into the newly amended pandemic legislation. Personally, I believe that this is the right way to go if we go through an amendment to the constitutional law on state security, where the pandemic state will be newly defined. But on May 7, the government commissioned the Interior Minister to prepare this amendment, I note that today is July 9th, while the government itself stated, I can quote, it is the Government's resolution that this proposal should also be consulted by representatives of political parties, with representatives of political parties in the Chamber of Deputies, with representatives of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. When I asked the Minister of Interior last week, Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, if and at what stage the preparation of the constitutional law amendment was, I was not answered. So I would like very much, and it will be another point in this resolution, so that we, too, can get information here in the Chamber of Deputies, how far is the preparation of pandemic legislation, so that we are ready for the future. Again, who is ready is not surprised. [[11.40 hours]] It needs to be made clear here that the pandemic legislation must also have basic principles or parameters, and these can be summarised in at least two or three points. For one thing, there must be a clear constitutional framework here, because we have witnessed in the last three months that the government and the Ministry of Health at some moments, in several cases, have actually exceeded the constitutional and legal powers that they could have, and we should avoid that in the future. Therefore, we appeal very much to make it very clear on the basis of what the government can proceed on which, possibly, individual ministries. It is equally important to emphasise again what the constitutional system is, which means that the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and that there must be clear control mechanisms. There is no way that the powers of scrutiny by the Chamber of Deputies towards the Government could be circumvented in any way in this sense. So these are all things that we're going to put emphasis on. The third thing - i.e., central purchases and, on the one hand, pandemic legislation - and the third thing is the question of compensation for damage caused by natural or legal persons as a result of measures implemented by the government. Here I'm afraid the government has chosen ostrich tactics, i.e. Looking like nothing's going on, nothing can happen, and sticking your head in the sand in front of it. I, together with the KDU-ČSL, do not consider this to be the right step and, on the contrary, I would expect that the government will try to do everything possible to minimise any confusion and litigation that may arise here. Therefore, I think it is important to repeat and call on the Government to make clear, not only through what we have heard from Dr Angyalossy‎'s new Supreme Court President, that there are some principles that can be defined in advance, whether it be to identify the authority where they may turn, whether it be a question of some online forms, whether it be a question of some methodology. Because, of course, there's been a lot of compensation at the time of the emergency. It is not possible to duplicate any replacements. But pretending that nothing happens and nothing happens, we don't think it's right. I would therefore like to conclude here in the debate with the motion for a resolution, which I would then ask for to be voted on. In addition, one point, which has already been presented here by my colleague Pavla Golasowská, is four points which essentially describe what I have just mentioned and, as regards not the situation in Karvinsko and the current solution, but regarding the preparation and prevention towards the future. The motion for a resolution on which agreement is also reached with the ODS, Pirates, STAN and TOP-09, and which has been forwarded to all members of the MPs, shall read as follows: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to address the central purchases and potential distribution of medical material without delay, using the possibilities of the Administration of State Material Reserves, including legislative adjustments simplifying the purchase of State Material Reserves outside the crisis period. - So that's the first point I've talked about. Finally, it comes from what the government itself says and what government members of social democracy are calling for, what the head of the State Material Reserve Administration, Mr Švagr, has repeatedly communicated. Second point. It calls on the Government - secondly - to present without delay the draft amendment to the Constitutional Act on State Security, which will take into account the knowledge and experience of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and, in accordance with the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 7 May, to open consultations with representatives of all political parties in the Chamber of Deputies and with representatives of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[SARS-COVID-19]] - a resolution that merely interprets what the government itself approved in its resolution on 7 May. Point three. We call on the Government to present, by 31 July 2020 at the latest, a procedure for the organisational components of the state in the case of a second wave of pandemics based on applicable legislation and to ensure sufficient capacity for sampling sites and testing laboratories for COVID-19 at the level of up to 30,000 tests per day and a plan for testing potentially infected. - I think my colleague Richterová and others, whether it was a colleague of Kaňkovský, have been very detailed here. It is not really about creating a capacity of 30,000 in the Moravian-Silesian Region, it is nonsense, we all know this, no one has to tell us here, but it is a question of covering the whole Czech Republic and using the capacity for local problems in Karvinsko, where, in my opinion, it is easy to use capacity in Zlinsko, Brno, Olomouc or other regions. And the last, fourth point concerns the question of compensation for damage that is not much discussed, and the government acts as if nothing: we call on the government to immediately provide citizens with information on how to claim damages under the crisis law if they have been directly damaged by government measures at a time of crisis, thereby preventing possible confusion and litigation. We call on the Government, in accordance with the principles of good governance towards citizens who have been directly damaged by government measures, to take the following steps: (a) identify one body to which damage may be addressed; (b) prepare an online form to claim damages; (c) prepare a methodology for claiming compensation. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support for these resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u71	Thank you. Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the Government, will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, just a very short remark. Perhaps Mr Výborný does not have precise information, but to the Administration of Material Reserves, as it is currently happening, at what stage it is. At the beginning of May we entered the Administration of Material Reserves, which actually takes over today the role of individual resorts within the so-called. iron reserves, instructed to replenish these stocks. This was actually done during the first 14 days of May, so that all the individual resorts, but also the regions, made their demands, i.e. across all protective devices, which I will not mention here now, but it is estimated to be 20 product types from of course classic drapes through FFP1, 2, 3, other sanitary devices etc., defined their necessary supply for two months, including regions, including, of course, subordinate organizations of all ministries. That was processed immediately. Basically, they are products of a total value of 3.8 billion. Crowns. These products were divided into two parts, namely two exact halves, and the first part immediately began to compete, i.e. for one month everything will be ready and already it will compete at this time, I even have on the daily report how individual products, how many potential candidates have applied, etc. are and will be ready in the coming weeks. And the other half, we used the special institute for the first time and we're not going to the finished products, but we're going to the so-called. the reservation system. This applies in particular to domestic producers, who will actually be bought from the Material Reserves Administration - yes - and will be able to stock immediately through this. So everything's in preparation and it's going according to the regime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u73	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u74	Thank you, I've only been very brief. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I will not dispute this at all, of course I have the information, at least from the media, as you talk about them in the end. But the point is, you can't just fill in the material reserves. That's important, and it's a good thing you're doing it. Of course, it's part of the preparation, the prevention, in case the other wave comes along. But we have to deal with this thing for the future, too. And here it is clear that it is necessary to reach into the legislation as well. And I have not heard from the government that she has come up with any proposal to amend the Act on the Administration of State Material Reserves so that reserves can then be purchased - and this may apply to the future at any time, in a year, in two, in ten years - even in a situation where an emergency is not declared on the basis of the request of the Minister of Health, Minister of Industry and Trade, etc. That's what I've been appealing to, not that, of course, these states have to come together now, it's a good thing you're doing, and that's what we all support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u75	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u76	Thank you. I would like to appreciate that the Vice Prime Minister is answering, and I would like to reiterate my question, which I have not received an answer from the Prime Minister or the Minister, how is the vaccination project, how are we doing with the vaccine?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u77	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Adam Vojtěch. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will therefore answer the question of Mr Čižinský, although I am unable to say anything in particular at this time. The first phase, which will now be completed, is still underway within the National Reference Laboratory of the State Health Institute. The information is quite positive, but at this point, I'm not gonna tell you when the whole project is over. It has a total of three phases. First laboratory, then animal testing, then clinical trials in clinical practice. I'm sure it'll take some time, and my colleagues are working on it. It's a purely professional question. As far as the vaccine is concerned, of course, we follow the situation very carefully. It's what all the world's eyes are for. The effective vaccine, if it comes, will undoubtedly change the whole game around the coronation or coronavirus, because of course we will then be able to inoculate especially those vulnerable groups. But even in this area, the wider world, we do not yet have any concrete information that an effective vaccine is already in sight. Of course, there are some teams working on it within the world, about 16 or 17, where there seem to be promising results. We're also dealing with some of the companies that are actually preparing the vaccine, the global players. We are acting at an EU level that wants to buy vaccines together for all Member States, but at this point it is far from over, and therefore I am not able to say any concrete conclusion in this regard yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u79	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda, duly enrolled in the general debate, will be prepared by Mr Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u80	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I have wanted to respond here several times in a factual point, but I have waited honestly. A lot of things I'm going to mention here have already fallen, but as they say, Minister, repetition is the mother of wisdom. We're dealing with something here today that may not have been such a problem at all. A new outbreak of the spread of coronavirus in the Moravian-Silesian region could be captured in time. Better testing, transfer of information, targeted quarantine deployment, closure of plants with an excessive incidence of infected. These aren't magic recipes, that's standard procedure. But it seems that the government has not learned anything since the first outbreak of the pandemic in our Republic. She's a total failure in Karvinska. The relevant ministries and subordinate authorities behaved in many ways as amateurs. I am not saying this as a mandatory criticism of the government, but 1.2 million people in the Moravian-Silesian region deserve to know who is responsible for this situation. And to know that if they haven't seen the government stand, at least they'll get the defense here in the Chamber of Deputies. And what is this failure? Just a few examples. The test started late and on too small a scale. There have been reservations about the speed tests used, including from the Regional Governor Ivo Vondrák, by the way of our fellow Member, who is here for your ANO movement. It's nice that the Prime Minister once bragged about how regional exponents have an YES cell phone on him in the election campaign. But what good is it if communication between the county and the government doesn't work, even though both are in the same party colors? The results of more thorough PCR tests have been waiting for too long, the testing is going on chaoticly and as the Mayors of Karvinska complained in the joint statement. The test capacities were to be strengthened in time and in good time. Apparently, the Regional Hygiene Station couldn't handle the situation. For the sake of clarity, on May 5 she issued a decision to take action for OKD. Less than two weeks later, on May 18th, but when 600 samples were taken, the whole tenth was positive. That wasn't a massive infection? Why didn't the tests start right away on the other shafts? Making sure that the County Hygiene Station is taking appropriate steps with calmness and discretion did not convince me much about her good work. The responsibility for this falls on the head of the Ministry of Health, under which hygiene falls. Quarantine is virtually not declared, and if so, so little. And the clever quarantine, as the Minister has already mentioned, is not worth talking about, because only the clever designation in this case has proved to be nonsense. Absolutely incredible then is how messy the state as owner of OKD behaved. It has not provided sufficient hygiene and protective equipment. There was no safe change of shifts or restriction of contact in deep mines. When it turned out that the coronavirus started spreading too quickly in the mines, what were they waiting for? Why haven't they closed before? Why did the shafts remain in operation, causing local pandemics, which were both really and media related to Karvina? And was it not necessary to achieve a forced interruption of mining so that the miners would be at home due to obstacles on the employer's side with 100% salary? So, did the Minister mention this before the regional elections, will there be peace and satisfaction, Minister? I also, as my colleague Golasowská here, am not running for office in the regional elections, nor am I running for senate, so you know. That should be answered here and there by the Minister of Finance, who, when we are discussing this serious point, is not, and yet falls under this department of property rights. In summary, the government bailed on Karvinsko and the entire Moravian-Silesian region. Imagine that something similar would happen in Prague, which happens to have a similar population. For example, in some company from the ČKD group or in the Transport Company. Would the government act the same way, chaotic? It's hard to say. But I will not give up on people here because I was born in this region, that I live there and that I represent the Moravian-Silesian region here in the House. I would therefore like to know from the relevant members of the government why they behaved so laxly and mainly what plans they have to manage the pandemic in the fires there. Over a million inhabitants of the region certainly deserve these answers. Furthermore, I would like to respond to Vice-President Hanzel through you, Mr Vice-President. You mentioned in your speech - I'm an opposition politician, and you mentioned that the opposition is harassing the governor and the mayor. I don't wash them. I'm blaming the government for this. Then some comments from the Minister. We exchanged some tweets and the minister mentioned that he was in the Moravian-Silesian Region on Thursday and that he was in Ostrava. So I ask you, Minister, why didn't you visit Karvinsko and why didn't you visit the mines concerned? Then you said here: something failed in the Moravian-Silesian region. Nothing failed in the Moravian-Silesian region, only you failed. And I'm gonna come back here when we're dealing with the symptoms. Do you know why these miners are unmarked? Maybe Mr. Hájek surprised me here as he defended it, but heat is hard work, and when the miner comes out of the mine, he usually coughs, he thinks he's not a symptom. It gives the job. And if they're doing such hard work, I'm sure the measures should have been three, four, maybe ten times higher than normal working people. I guess that's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u81	Thank you. Mr Marian Bojko will speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond by your means to Mr Janda. I've been underground for 33 years, half of which as a mining paramedic in the worst conditions, and I don't cough. Although I have one lung partially dysfunctional, but I'm not coughing. And I'm in contact with the miners who are in quarantine today. They're home. And none of them, I don't know about anyone who has any symptoms of illness that he's complaining. The controls were good. Those people went to work wearing masks, measuring their temperatures. A much bigger problem today on our Karviné is that mining has actually been targeted since the 1990s. We've closed the Ostrava shafts. A lot of people left in 1990/1991 for old-age pensions at the age of 50. And actually, the people who filled the exposure period could no longer work on the shaft as tribal workers, so they joined the agencies as agency workers. And they're the ones who are the most affected by that downstairs lockdown today because they have contracts officially on a salary of 10,000, and they get the rest, like 20,000, on a diet, and now they're home at 60 percent. So he only gets $6,000. That's all the man gets. They're out of a job. And on the other hand, these guys are swearing that the mines are closed. And all I'm saying is that Mr. Governor Vondrák and his crisis crew did well and didn't neglect anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u83	Have a nice noon. Well, I'll read the apology here. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes today from 12.00 to 14.15 for work reasons. So now Mr Vlastimil Válek will make a point of fact and Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, we're already in a professional debate, so I'm just gonna try to turn it down easy again. I'm so sorry, you see, I didn't volunteer because I don't want to delay. I must stand up for myself through your Member Janda. Because it's a symptom, it's not a symptom. It's playing with words. So first someone here tell me how you define the symptoms, what you call a covid symptom, which one of those in the literature described by a few dozen symptoms you mean. Whether you mean temperature, what temperature, how measured. Whether you mean cough, cough. What you call a symptom. Whether you mean the definition that was at the beginning of the covid. Or the one that changed during the course. And then let's talk about whether they were symptoms or not. Most people with cancer are long-term symptomsless. Does that mean they don't have cancer? They do! Just because they're symptomsless doesn't mean they don't have complications in five years, ten years, a year, a month. It is highly likely that there may be any complications. So if we want to talk professionally, let's talk about the last lancet - and Professor Adámková would be very sure to support me, and I hope that Professor Vyzula and Professor Špičák too - where it is written about late complications in terms of thrombotic limbs, more frequent strokes, etc. Until then, patients with no symptoms. There's no way I'm interested in scaring anyone, because it's a case report, a case case. Let's just accept that we're at the beginning of our research into the symptoms and complications of the covid. And just because someone's unmarked from your point of view doesn't mean they're unmarked from the point of view of medicine. It was just tested there, tested positively, with a solid test that has some yield, some specificity, some sensitivity, and has been carried out in some quality, a certain number of people, a homogeneous group of inhabitants, and very rightly here one of the previous speakers said that there was a sea of 20 percent. I am interested in how it is possible that there is 20 percent between miners and in other similar samples we did not get to ten. I'm very interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u85	Mr Leo Luzar will now appear and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the diminutive ranks of the Chamber of Deputies bear witness to the ripening of the time when attention is already falling, so allow me to begin with just a brief theory of my theory on the medical debate that has taken place here. It's just the miners' lungs are in such a state that even the covide doesn't work. Why are smokers' lungs less susceptible to covid? Same reasons, I guess. They're just not good enough for the covid to survive there easily. But it's just a theory, my amateur, I'm not a doctor, so let me just take this turn here. But I will return to the beginning of what I wanted to say. Remember the first information about the covido and remember what the members of the crisis crew told us at the time and how they prepared us as a society for what awaits us. They said that the main objective of all the measures the state is to extend the growth curve. They talked about the fact that the most important thing is to ensure maximum health care capacity so that it was not overlooked, so that everyone who needed a pulmonary ventilator would have it at their disposal, so that everyone who needed medical intervention would be remembered. To prevent what happened to other EU countries in the Czech Republic, when they simply failed to cope with the onset of this covid disease, medically. That was the target. What happened now? We were proud. Ladies and gentlemen, we've become proud and we think we're going to destroy the covid. And most of the speakers here at this counter in this basic philosophy are going with this. If we're tough, clear, strong, and we have everything, we're gonna destroy the covid. We're gonna beat him. We'll isolate the covid. It's gonna be a smart quarantine, covid's gonna disappear. They'll all be in isolation. Let's just say we go back to the beginning, he'll just be here with us. Even if there really is a quick vaccine, as the minister here rightly says, I'm quick to consider maybe two or three years before there's a functional vaccine for COVID-19. So let's pour some pure wine again - how long has the flu been with us? And how much vaccination is there for the flu in the Czech Republic? How many people already take the flu as a common disease and just a vaccination, that's irrelevant because we all had the flu? Won't we have to learn to live with the fact that we'll all have company someday? And only the negative consequences, as with the flu, will be the deadly ones, and then we'll deal with these circumstances. I have, and I often look at it, looking at the pages arcgis.com. It is a global country-by-state occurrence table, the occurrence of covid, which is updated every minute according to reports from different states' health systems. There are 12 miles in the world right now. 46 thousand. infected with covid. When you go across states, you don't come across small exceptions to states that could do it. The curve keeps growing. In some states it grows exponentially, in some it tends to fluctuate, but it continues to grow. In other words, according to these curves, we can say that we are not able to defeat covid. He's just gonna be here all the time. We're gonna have to deal with this. As for the current situation we have in our country. I hear here that we should have a plan, an epidemiology plan, how to deal with it, written: point 1, point 2, point 3, this is what we have to do when... But there is a plan. The state has it. We even have a solution to these situations in the law. There is Act 239/2000 Coll., on the Integrated Rescue System, which also remembers these issues and determines the categories and aids of how the state, the performance of the state administration, should function and how it should address these circumstances. It depends only on us how we apply these conditions. In Act 240/2000 Coll., on Crisis Management, it is clear what is to be done. We've already taken advantage of some of this. This law mentions a state of danger, an emergency and a state of danger. The state of danger has not occurred, we are not attacked from the outside and we do not have these problems that the state could apply. But we've already tried emergency. The government applied it. The results were clearly felt by all of us on our own. And yourself, remember how we called here and appealed to end it as quickly as possible, because this really, in a way, drastic solution to certain problems, and I thank the state that he found the courage after the initial hesitation, that was here, and that is to be recalled - after the initial hesitation that he applied this second stage, that is an emergency situation, and he solved the problem. We've been dealing with the replacements and solutions that arose after the emergency, and I don't think we want it to be applied anymore. The government has done its job here, and even under pressure from citizens and politicians, it has decided to put an end to this emergency. [[12.10 hours]] But we still have a state of danger here. The state of danger can be defined - or another danger to life and health, as stipulated by the law. If a responsible person who has the decision-making power and can declare a state of danger recognizes that there is a situation that is in direct danger of life and health, he may declare a state of danger in a certain area. This state of danger entitles us to deploy forces and resources - and I urge you - to deploy forces and means to handle the situation. I can imagine a state like this being declared over Karvinsk, and the funds were chosen by the military profession, by strengthening health workers, by declaring continuous operations, where hygiene would work 24 hours a day. And I think he's working, I'm sorry, but as an example. This means that it can be applied in this solution to the existing law, which has been in force since 2000, to address this situation. But I guess this situation didn't happen. Because the law says that in order for this situation to occur, we need to consider it. That's why there are crisis crews. The emergency staff is also represented by hygienists, but there are firemen, there are police officers and others. There are also those mayors who are an integral part of the crisis management in the region or the disabled to assess whether or not the situation has occurred. And if this group of people who have confidence, trust in elections and trust in their expertise, agree that the existing solutions of classic hygiene applied by the other authorities of the state are sufficient, then there is no need to declare this situation. But there's a possibility. In other words, if this situation had exceeded any limit in Karvina, it is the duty of the governor of the county to declare and address this. And he has that possibility in the law, and very hard. And even there is a caselaw that it is "inconvenient legally" as we have dealt with here in other cases, whether legally compensation. No, not in this state. Here the decision is quite clear and the law specifically determines the responsible person. It's listed and clearly stated. So let's say this situation didn't happen in Karvina. And everyone who says otherwise should prove it. There is an expert group of people composed of representatives of municipalities and politicians and experts who are clearly saying - and telling us all - this situation did not occur in Karvina, because otherwise we would definitely declare it. No one will go against their own people and use the legal options they have to deal with this situation. But what's going to be a problem is public opinion. Of course, the citizens of Karviné - but not only Karvinska, but Frýdecko-Místecka and other districts downstream, where the situation is problematic - what they call, what they fear is a lack of information. Because the information they're getting comes from the media. And if there's anything to criticize the current situation that we're living in, that's the attitude of the media. Sensational pursuit. I consider that to be the worst thing that could have happened. And if there was something in the emergency situation that was supposed to be here in this country, and what I consider to be a big mistake is that there were no media participants in the crisis crew, at least public ones. They were supposed to go to that crisis crew, and they were supposed to allow citizens to pass on information, to the limited extent and the possibilities that it gives so that they could have objective and clear information about what was being dealt with, what the procedure was and what it would look like. Because what we are witnessing now, especially in Karvinska, comes from what the media are writing. Just take a look at the media that they're writing to us. He's texting us - a thousand people met in Ostrava at some Beats for Love concert. And how did so many people meet there? Hygiene quoted writes - well, we didn't know about it. Well, she probably reported on the event somewhere, information was somewhere. Why didn't someone ask the really responsible, like the crisis crew, or the cities where it was organized, what were the measures when they allowed it, and so on? They asked the organizer, he said - we waited for the instruction, he didn't come, so we followed some schedule that we had. And there's an affair that's going to spread in the media, and people are going to read it and say, oh, my God, what's going on? It's a huge mistake that the media is not fulfilling its role to inform the public so that the information is comprehensive and objective. It's also about Karvin and the miners. The second problem, however, is fear, fear for work. We're dealing with a disease, a disease. When you ask those miners - indeed, most of them are unmarked, a fellow speaker just leaving Hájek mentioned it here through you. Those people don't feel sick, they just came out positive in the tests. But what's much worse for them now is that Karvinsko's fear that the shafts will be closed permanently is spreading. And here, if the government should respond, there is exactly the moment when it should say - no, we will support you, don't worry. In addition to the fact that OKD is a state enterprise, eventually managed by the Treasury through Prisco, so they should say clearly and should sound - we will not abuse how we are pushed, here this problem and you will continue to have the job there, don't worry. Because maybe what's worse than covid is the fear of the unknown that can trigger it. And here I would appeal to the government to give it a clear view of how it plans to help this company, which has stepped up to the closure that regulated this production, and it simply cannot be left to these people, and it is thousands of employees, in doubt that it will end. And now I will not recall other businesses in the Moravian-Silesian region that have problems, whether linked to covid or associated with the authorisation of further steel exports to the European Union from countries outside the European Union and others that threaten the industrial base of our region and cause further and more problems. A lot of the cited here was a clever quarantine. She just doesn't work. Let's just face it, all of us, and I count on them, people who like that computer science, it doesn't work. And I will not use examples from the Czech Republic, but I will use an example from Israel. At the same time as the emergency situation was discussed in our country, Israel was also preparing for the onset of the covid wave, and the Czech media was flooded with information, as Israel does well, involved the secret services and started a clever quarantine. Based on the charts you can find on the website, you'll find that it doesn't work in Israel either. And the increase is huge, and it's already going up exponentially. In other words, information technology, if not well prepared and not tested, does not work. And we cannot rely on them and report to citizens as ideal and clear solutions - a smart quarantine will save us. No. And so we have to go back to what's described in crisis management, what's described in emergency situations and others, to the classic phone calls, tracking, asking people for contacts and finding that path. Unfortunately, unfortunately, it takes time. I firmly believe that - and I was one of the instigators to sit here ladies who are responsible for the hygienic state of the Moravian-Silesian region and the whole republic to hear this debate and also to respond to it, what is the real state of our hygiene, what is the real state of readiness of these institutions. And let's say, and we can talk about the staff, for example, aren't you undervalued as part of the staffing of hygiene? Well, because logically, when nothing happens, it saves. Well, they're saving up for the labor force. And when that happens, who's gonna handle it if these people aren't physically? That's how you find the smart quarantine, but it doesn't work. And we're in an axiom of output denial, and we have to deal with classic methods. [[12.20 hours]] Is this the impulse that should lead to the appeal, forced to call on workers to carry out these tasks? I don't know, that's the responsibility of the county crisis crew. But there has to be a solution here, that these people are just gonna be called in, and there's no way that it closes over the weekend, freezes the samples and doesn't test. I can't. It's all here and it's all described. It's written, and the plans exist that many people under the everyday impressions of the need for crisis plans have them somewhere based in drawers and they're being dusted. So be it. But first, when something like this happens, these crisis plans need to be pulled out and read. Let me just marginally mention one problem that we haven't dealt with here, and that's the health network. Somewhere I have heard from experts, and I watch the debates quite carefully on the facebook profiles of various oracles who preach different theories, and others, and yet they are experts, and they have the four letters before the title MUDr, even epidemiologists, which sometimes puzzles me, and they have talked about the fact that in a way a dense network of district hospitals has saved us, the Czech Republic. That the pressure on the central ones was decomposing and that, in fact, because of the state system of some district driving and other bed capacities being preserved here, we managed to keep health care from the initial wave, and that's how we worked. Now, I'm sorry, politically, I'm not running for county council, but the fate of Orl's hospital is such a black spot in this, because, of course, it's starting to overwhelm the Havířov hospital, which has become a fallout for the area, and it's where the problems started, which were also said to be a little bit of a problem for those paramedics in our affected region. But it's a lesson. The lesson that the crisis plans for infectious diseases, which were processed after 2015 - yes, after 2015, after the first viral wave that came from Asia, were being processed in the Czech Republic by crisis plans for pandemic development of viral diseases - was useful and that the preservation of the network that was described and named there, what each district, every county should be doing, is clearly written how individual representatives of the authorities who were praised here, and now nothing critical against it, preserved against the plan, whether they really complied with the number of beds, numbers of fans, numbers of doctors, staffing is very important there, and in every such workplace there should be at least one expert, as the plan set out to be able not to carry out the activity himself, but quickly prepare other specialist doctors for the specialized profession, for the specialization that is needed in this matter, so they should be preserved there. That's where my next question comes in. A little off again, but I'll appeal to the government. I'm sure you're watching the media, seeing what Ostrava's medical school problem is right now. Here I will appeal to the absent Minister of Education, Mr Plaga, and not - present, sorry, the present Minister of Health. Try to maintain a medical faculty in Ostrava, because this county will need those highly educated people, and I don't know how the Governor will arrange for the transport of doctors from Prague. That's probably, let's all say, unrealistic, 'cause I'm already me, too. He read that the Pendolino as the only transport fast-track Ostrava-Prague is the infectious danger that the knowledgeable media warns us about and inspires the horror. Try to think about the fact that even the Moravian-Silesian Region needs a medical faculty and that it would be very good to be preserved so that it can raise those experts who are able to help us in the region so that what happens to us doesn't happen now that an infection like this breaks out. In conclusion, I can only say that the Czech Republic has in the law solutions to these effects, which have shifted to us. We didn't cause them. It is caused by an invisible virus that has a long incubation period and is therefore dangerous and spreads as the flu spreads. We've all had the flu sometimes. If someone happens to volunteer that he didn't have it, he should be examined. We'll just have to get used to it, that there are diseases that will accompany us, and that we'll have to maintain a certain degree of responsibility in accessing ourselves and living in general. But I do not want us to have to wear drapes permanently, to live permanently in isolation, to be permanently forced to deal with the fact that a group of citizens who are affected by the virus will be ostracized and pushed to the edge of society just because it has the disease and the media likes it as the main bearing topic. Let's try to get back to the fact that we're all in the same boat, we're all fighting an invisible enemy, and let's try to focus on that, too. And if there are problems, yes, let's talk about them. But again, let's not appeal to something that's here, and let's not want anything new. Crisis management and crisis planning exist, it is here, and in the Czech Republic it is even at one of the highest levels in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u87	Now here's a point of fact. Mr Ivo Vondrák has applied and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u88	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would start with what was said here about declaring a state of danger. Here it happened that OKD was actually tested across the board, where there was a real 20% infection in humans. But it didn't happen what would mean the collapse of the entire region. All the files are working. In other words, it is indeed now a strain on the regional health station to track and simply the conditions of the state of danger have not been met. We've dealt with this every meeting of the District Security Council and before the crisis crew. So what I would like to say is that these things are really not yet, unless the situation really flows into a state of chaos, then, of course, there is no need to declare this state of danger. And second of all, there was an Orleans hospital. We transformed the Orlov hospital from acute care to care subsequent, i.e. LDN and all the things related to it. And by the way, it was this hospital that saved the moment we basically needed to pull sick people out of all our hospitals, virtually. release the premises and the elderly sick people who were there, transfer them to this hospital. On the contrary, this decision has helped us to cope with this situation and helps us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u89	Now one more point of fact, Mr Daniel Pawlas. And Mrs Richterová is still ready. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u90	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to Mr Vondrák's words through Mr President. I think it's just that the Orleans hospital is shutting down that's causing an overload in the Raven's Hospital today. Because if there was a condition that part of the department was isolated in Karviná, because there was a covid infection, Orlovská hospital de facto was transferred to LDN, or subsequent care, and all acute cases are tied up right into Havířov, and this Havířov is overloaded and we know that providing enough medical personnel especially in our region is very difficult. So the transfer and cancellation of the Orlov hospital was a big mistake for the Moravian-Silesian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u91	Now, in fact, Mr Ivo Vondrák will respond. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u92	Mr Pawlas, through the President, the Orlova Hospital has not been abolished. It hasn't been canceled. The nature of her care that she's providing has been changed, so please don't confuse people here. Especially the TV cameras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u93	Mrs Olga Richterová will now appear and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u94	Thank you for the floor, hello. Thanks to this debate, I was able to look up some specific things, and I can now ask the Minister about the emergency measure of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region in Ostrava, which is just mentioned in the testing in health and social facilities. And that is the point - it is measure 10/2020, everyone can look it up, and it is a measure that, as the Minister said, lays down the obligation to test workers. That's good. Only in health establishments is the obligation to test either rapid tests or PCR tests. But at point 7 of this measure in social facilities - guess what tests are provided for the testing. It's just rapid tests. You guessed right, Mr President. So the point is, what's the point of testing rapid tests for social workers? We have seen a lot of rapid tests wasted in vain, and PCRs had to be repeated in OKD. And yet we do not want to apply this kind of testing to workers to see if they are currently losing or not. That doesn't make any sense. So I'm turning again to the Minister. Here, the devil is hidden in detail. Because I just didn't get the intel from the field that PCR tests were taking place there, so I was surprised. And so unfortunately, the measure in that text gives this unfortunate answer. So that's one thing I'd like to ask for a reaction, whether you're going to change this, and whether there are those PCR tests that are needed for the current infectiveness or infectiveness. And the other thing. I would like to draw the pirát' debate again following the debate, and there has also been a discussion with Mr. Governor, who is also a Member. He warned that he had no reason to declare a state of danger. Fine. But when he talked about limits, about the limits of physical possibilities that those county facilities and those county health services have, he called for the help of the army. I think the fact that I'm looking at him is true, but somehow the government is still pretending that the military has been withdrawn and that we're handling it like we're going to another state. So I'd like to ask the minister again. So you said that more extensive testing in OKD will start on July 19th, which shows a long time lag, more general. And it's not the plan we've worked out how our state is capable of providing more extensive testing in places where the local outbreaks are going to break out. I just have this really simple logistical or managerial question, how exactly do you want to get out of those places where those capacities aren't needed, just move quickly to where it needs to be protested, taken and so on. And it has to do with how sanitary stations work, and that is actually what people who can't reach the county health station who get the results late. In this way they are de facto faced with personnel insufficiency. And that is my last question from this supplementary section after the debate that has already been held. And that's how you train backup trackers. Once again, I know that the army helped with the most offensive. Here we go again. Soldiers jumped in. But do you have an arrangement that if there's another local outbreak or it pops up in Karvinsk, do you have any other capacities, other tracers? It is, of course, also a question to Mrs. Chief Hygiene. Again, it's something that should be mentioned in those plans. If they were finished, if the government had a concrete plan completed, the scalability that we're talking about repeatedly means that if an outbreak jumps rapidly, the occurrence there, or even a nationwide one, then we have to have the ability to call people from the backup who will be tracking in some reasonable quality. Once again, after consulting experts, we believe that training is enough, that it may not all be trained epidemiologists. Finally, I will repeat the questions raised by my colleague, Mr Lukáš Černohorský, after these specific questions. And I'm gonna bring them up so they don't fit in. These are quite specific questions about hygiene, as a matter of fact, to the Minister. I mean, why doesn't hygiene have a clear record of how many people have been quarantined? Why is this being traced back to the data of the Czech Administration? When are these systems going to unify? And thirdly, I would even poke out Mr. Černohorský's question a moment ago: Why are there only some OKD workers at home? Why do most of these surface workers still work? Specifically, we are talking about people who work for coal treatment plants, between 800 and 1,000 people. So thank you for your specific answers. And I believe none of the questions will be overheard. Everything from me so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u95	So now I have three factual points. Mrs Karla Maříková will be the first to speak. Then I will give space to the de facto county hygienist Pavla Svrčinová. And then he will be the third to speak to Mr. Jiří Mašek in fact. So, Mrs Maříková, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've heard here, all of you, from your previous speakers, that the government acted lightly. A lot of these measures were in the hands of county hygiene. I'll take advantage of the county hygienist coming after me. I would like to call on her to explain to us here why these measures have taken place, as it is claimed, so late. Whether it was necessary only now in the current situation so that we would also have a little bit of insight into what was going on there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u97	So now Mrs Pavla Svrčinová, the county hygienist, will appear and Mr. Jiří Mašek will prepare himself. So please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u98	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to explain to you, ladies and gentlemen, the situation as we have evaluated it and to answer some of the questions that have been raised here. So the situation at Dole Darkov began to develop according to our information on April 24, when we recorded the first case. On 18 May a measure was issued, an emergency regional hygiene measure for testing all employees at the Dole Darkov. And we tested 2.5,000 employees in two waves. First all, then those who came out negative on the first test, so they tested again to really get all the positives. Indeed, at that time there were 75 vermin and 6 family members of the sick or positive. The same procedure was basically with the ČSM, because all of a sudden, cases started popping up at the ČSM North and South Lower. There were about 20, 22, when we decided to protest this mine with rapid tests to see if there was a covert epidemic. And then, all of a sudden, even during those rapid tests, there were more cases, so we declared 95 cases, including 22 cases related to Darkov, so in exactly the same number of cases, another Darkov mine testing. We have the same procedure for approval at the Department of Health today, so we're going to test those who were negative in the first round again. As for coal treatment and the fact that about 800, a thousand people go there. We've been checking, we're prepping the mine for closure. And that's where some surface workers run out. As regards -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u99	Well, time... Now the question is, if I'm gonna be helpful, I've got... I just wanted to ask, I have two facts here, but if we don't leave Mrs... The Chair of the Regional Hygiene Station has been enrolled in the general debate for about an hour. But I'm asking all the debaters, or if anyone's protesting, we're gonna cut it off and sign up again. Mr Stanjura says that we will follow the Rules of Procedure. I can see it from the nod. Okay. So I'm gonna put on the de facto... So, Mrs. Regional Director, I'm sorry, that would have to be after the general consensus to give you more space. But if you want, you can apply again to the facts, and you'll be in six minutes. Four minutes. Are you reporting? [[Yes.]] Okay. So now Mr. Jiří Mašek gets the floor. In fact, please. And then Mr. Josef Hájek will come forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to both Mr Luzar and Mr Governor. Here we were talking about crisis legislation, Law 240, and the possibility of declaring either a state of danger, an emergency, or a state of emergency. We've had an emergency here. We know what this means, and we know what this announcement can do. [[12.40 hours]] But I would like to remind everyone here that there is virtually nothing between these crisis laws and the Public Health Act. And please remember when our minister here asked for a possible strengthening of powers under the Public Health Act, and that would be appropriate today in relation to the solution of individual bearings, and it would be possible to respond more flexibly to that. And people, if that authority were strengthened there, they would also be better aware of the obligation to follow the measures. Those places don't take precautions. I got many emails and on Facebook people were communicating with me on the subject: what are we being punished for? We're in Karvina, our kids want to have some vacations, vacations, etc. So these measures need to be followed, it needs to be explained and it also needs to be explained that measures, if we follow them, can then be cancelled within three or four weeks. So I'm saying again, and I'd like to go back to whether it's possible to use the Resor law, the Public Health Act, and strengthen the ministry's authority there, which the Ministry has asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u101	Mr Josef Hájek will now make a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u102	Mr President, fellow Members, I would respond to Mrs Richterová through Mr President, who said here that she was wondering why the arrangements were not closed. I understand she's probably never been to the shop. So just to give you an idea, the first release was about the Hornbach stores that have high ceilings. Fixing plants have about five times higher ceilings, workplaces in treatment plants, it is a hall that is relatively much ventilated. And the workers are at the belt, i.e. At a distance of 10, 20, 30 meters. That means 10 times better conditions than they are in the mine. The employees are not in cages, they have created much better conditions than the miners, that's the first reason. The second reason is, the coal that gets mined doesn't go straight to the wagons. Coal goes to landfills, which means, at this point, even if mines don't weigh, they have mines stockings on landfills that are being processed at the moment, because that's what they're waiting for, for example. Thirteen, that's what the coke houses are waiting for -- that means, you want to close up, too, so they're gonna stay in the coking houses to stay in the state of Thirteen? Is that what you want? That's one. And two. Please, listen to what's going on here! In the course of the discussion, it was said that on Monday the government is going to the government of the government, which is being processed with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health, which will deal with the deployment of the army. Then why are you asking questions that have already been answered here once? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u103	Now Mrs Pavla Svrčinová, a regional health worker, will be given the floor for two minutes, and I will allow myself to include her in the regime of our Members in order to have some desirable discussion. Please, I'll give you two minutes again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u104	So, to explain, maybe, trace. I have 40 epidemiologists available for our 1.3 million-dollar region. Since cases have increased so much, I have strengthened from among other regional hygiene workers another 50 people who are used to tracking. Tracing cannot be done by a person without a medical education because he obtains sensitive data on the condition of the sick person. They ask when you had the symptoms and all that. As far as the investigation is concerned, in cooperation with the health institute, we have now established that we have done a test series of samples, when we took samples from the miners, and they have also applied to whether the virus, which they exclude, when we detect PCR only genetic material, is viable. And the first results from 30 samples are that the vermin, which was unmarked, had a very low viral charge, so the virus was dead after the first passage. We're still doing the second passage of the virus this week, where we're cultivating it on chicken embryos, and we'll have those results next week. When it comes to changing shifts, we have dealt with OKD, both with unions and management. And they themselves admitted that in the crisis plan, they had separate shifts, and the moment they canceled, the disease flew out on Darkov. So we returned with an extraordinary measure of regional hygiene, a decision for OKD, to order them not to meet each other in particular in showers, dining rooms, etc. So they went back to three-shift traffic. That's probably to explain a few of your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u105	Thank you, too, for keeping time precise. Mr Ivo Vondrák will now make a point of fact and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. So far, I've got these two applications for actual. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u106	I'd still do that OKD activity, the six weeks, the process where the mines go down, that's only four weeks of pure time. A week is needed to ensure that the mine is transferred to a technological minimum mode. And then the next week, last week, it's back to getting the mine back online. So what I'd like to say is that the fact that there are miners doesn't mean they're mining, but it's basically a process of dampening. And the second thing, a state of danger. Please, the state of danger doesn't warrant the governor's call for an army. It's not the Governor's jurisdiction. Not in a state of danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u107	Mr Petr Třešňák will now speak to Mr Olga Richterová, who will then be prepared, because Mr Jurečka asked me if he could be put to the very end. Which, of course, I can't do here on the computer, so it's still gonna be there until Congressman Třešňák gets off. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u108	Hello, thank you for your answers. At the same time, this is a real discussion after a long time, and I really thank you for that. But I was just asking why it was decided that employees from the surface parts of the OKD went to work. There's been some kind of response here, how there's different conditions. But it hasn't fallen down whether they'll be tested first. 'Cause that's the exact question, 19 again. 5. It's late. So my question is whether these people who continue to work there will be tested PCR tests as a priority in preventing further spread. And just as my factual refinement is, it is simply a measure of the regional sanitation station that there are only rapid tests in those social facilities, so I will ask again not only the Minister, but also Mrs Hygiene whether this will change and if PCR tests will be used there. And the third thing I would really like to say is that tracking - I quote again - cannot do a person without a health education. So, what I'm asking is, once again, the preparation of scalability of these measures is based on the extent to which they will be. Of course, it is ideal when it is done by a person with medical education. But if there's a larger range, more outbreaks, thousands of people need to be flashed, so it's just not possible to handle it. That's why I'm asking for a backup solution, to be ready for a moment when the educated and ideal ones aren't gonna be enough. That's how simple my questions are, and thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u109	Mr Petr Třešňák will now appear and, after the honourable Member, the Regional Hygiene Pavla Svrčinová has signed up for the general debate and will therefore not have a limited time to comment. So, Mr. Ambassador, you don't have a limited time either, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u110	Good day, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I originally wanted to respond to the debate on smart quarantine, not only about it, a factual remark at the moment when Mrs. Chief Hygiene Rážová spoke, but I left it to a proper application, but it won't take too long. I am also repeatedly on the Health Committee, and this will certainly give me Mrs Hygiene for the truth, because she was present there, he warned, and I suspect here also in plenary, about the preparation of a clever quarantine, not only on the functional level, but especially on how to complete some legislative support, e.g. the Act on the Protection of Public Health, including all control mechanisms. Because now the legislature really has no way of really verifying the functioning of a clever quarantine, virtually. the inside of the system, but also the way the data are handled. In fact, if the information was more detailed by now, there would be no need for a clever quarantine to go round and round again today and talk about it as Columbův' wife. So here I will repeatedly ask for information probably from the Minister when the proposal for such legislative support will be prepared. [[12.50 hours]] We welcome, of course, that it is developing in some way, even though the Smart Quarantine 2.0 should be functional, I guess, up to 30. 9. according to the documents. And from those advanced functionality it is at least the integration of the component eRoušek and mapy.cz. In this context, I can think of one more small remark and such an appeal to fellow Members to set an example for themselves. So I just tried to walk through the O.R. with my phone on, and at one point he collected 27 unique ID numbers in the whole room. And that number might actually be even smaller, because because of the anonymity of the system, it changes the unique ID number continuously. So it is indeed an appeal for Members to set an example in this themselves. However, I will return to that Smart Quarantine 2.0, which I personally once called the Smart Quarantine 1.5, because it is primarily a tool for health professionals, which is absolutely right and I understand that because it is the most important thing, but the question is why other countries came up with a much more sophisticated and advanced solution, which will mainly facilitate living for citizens. Even with rapid notification of the test result or warning against risk areas, including an indication of the current measures currently in force in that area. And many others. I would point my next question rather to Minister Havlíček, whom I do not see here at the moment, and she already spoke about it at the outset, I think, and my colleague Richterová, because according to information from the media, the Ministry of Industry and Trade organized a very successful Hackathon called Hack the Crisis. As a 13 project, a project called Covidy, allowing automated solutions to communicate the results of the tests, which I mentioned earlier, ended. Unfortunately, the Ministry said he was not interested. So the question is, of course, why, because when we see the situation in Karvinsko, it shows that people are missing the information about the test results, or the delivery of information is very serious. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u111	In the meantime, one more factual point has come up, so for two minutes, Mr Leo Luzar, and then the county hygienist Pavla Svrčinová will appear. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u112	Thank you for the floor. I only briefly responded to your response to the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region. Use of the Army of the Czech Republic in accordance with Act No. 239 Coll., on the Integrated Rescue System, may be planned, this is not an option, but other assistance to the integrated rescue system's components, this may be provided at the request of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Region, the Regional Authority or the Ministry of the Interior in carrying out rescue work by military services and facilities in accordance with Section 15, 16, 18 of Act No. 239/2000 Sb. [[Nesroz.]] The General Staff shall decide on their deployment. I don't know if the county has asked the General Staff to deploy this army, but that authority is under the law of the governor, the county or the fire department. If it were a planned aid, then there's an opportunity to provide, and there's an agreement that's quoted here. With an agreement on planned assistance on request concluded between the Ministry and the General Staff of the Fire Rescue Corps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u113	I will now ask for a speech by the regional hygienist Pavla Svrčinová and Mr. Josef Hájek will be prepared subsequently. I just want to warn you, Headmistress, that I'll have to stop you at 1:00 and then we'll continue at 2:30. So you can continue, of course, even if you can't make it, but not until 2:30 after. Please, you have the floor. Feel free to put the microphone down so you can...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u114	I'd like to explain the testing at the mines. So at the mines of ČSM north, the south will be tested in the second round by all employees who in the first round were negative, including supply companies such as AWT, Alpex and so on. We use rapid tests in social services because they were also used by the Ministry of Health according to its extraordinary social services measure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u115	That's all. [[I explained. Thank you very much.]] Okay, check in anytime. Mr Josef Hájek will now appear and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u116	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Too bad the rapporteur isn't here. I would like to follow up on his words when he said in the introduction that there was a failure of the state, and I exceptionally agree with him. Yes, there was a state failure in the case of OKD! The state caused this company to fall into Bakala's hands, which was tunneling the company. Yesterday, we were discussing the issue of the reduction in property transfer tax. It was discussed what nice apartments are, 45,000 apartments that Bakala stole! Forty-five thousand mining families robbed the apartments! That was the failure of the state the miners are suffering from today! Bakala led OKD into insolvency, thanks to the Prime Minister and the government managed to save 10,000 miners. Yes, the truth today is that it's a state enterprise that's in huge trouble. Huge problems because of the coronavirus rushing there, because world prices have fallen on the market. That means if you want to take the miners hostage, let's have fun helping those miners. I don't believe the pirát are led by trying to help the miners! Who's your leader? Mrs. Klusová! She likes miners like Mr. Okamura migrants! We know that! We know that. I've been watching her for months. She was not hiding her joy when there was a ban on the permit of mining activities in the 10th time at the ČSA mine. That means, really, let's talk about how to help these miners! If the miners hadn't been robbed, robbed by the OKD, and remained a state enterprise, it could have turned out to be like the RAG. The RAG is a German company which decided in 2008 to end its extraction within 10 years. That means, between 2008 and 2018. The company had 15,000 people, prepared a comprehensive program with the motto "we'll take care of every employee" A number of German colleagues, not to say comrades, but German colleagues, left within 50 years with a pension of 8,000 euros. Eight thousand euros. Today we are in a situation that OKD is a state company because of the state failure, and you will then criticize the government and Prime Minister for the fact that the decline of the mining, which is unfortunately non-necessary, and that is some reality, will require resources. But you caused the fact that there really were 100 billion that if the company had today, it could invest in a social program, a systemic downturn that would cover both the costs of the downturn and the cost of the social programme. [[The tide?]] - I have three more minutes. I'm still surprised at the representatives of the People's Party and the ODS. Please, who's in the county? Who's in the coalition? Who's the First Deputy Governor? Mr. Curylo! Mr. Curylo! Who's in the ODS coalition? Mr. Unucka and Mr. Folwarczny are there. They're not communicating with you? You don't have information about what's going on in the region, what's going on in the shaft? So how's the information transfer going in there? I don't understand. I don't understand. Mr. Janda, who's a decent athlete, I respected him, I really used the terms that I sometimes use when he asked the Minister and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to get his ass up and go to the shafts. I'm asking, colleague Janda, did you jump on the shaft? Did you take a look? That means one thing is when you criticize someone - if I criticize them, I try to set an example and do my thing. So please, I have the last minute. My appeal is - let's do it systemically, I'm not saying everything's okay there. Let us discuss at a professional level what needs to be improved in health care, what needs to be improved in hygiene, in epidemiology, and how to help miners to reduce their wells with social programs so that everyone is happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u117	Now I'm going to make a point of fact. Mrs Olga Richterová will still be able to make it. I'll have to interrupt you, but you can go again. It's still 12.59). There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u118	One factual comment about Mrs. Hygiene, namely that there was no answer, why use the rapid tests in social facilities. Maybe that's a question for the Minister. And the second answer--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u119	I'll stop you, I'll stop you. However, you were interrupted after some 14 seconds, which means I'm just going to repeat the order of factual remarks for the tape, because there's a lot of you here so that the organizational department can also note which is watching us online. That is, Mrs Olga Richterová has been interrupted after 14 seconds, so you will proceed immediately at 14.30, Mrs Olga Richter, and you will be given the first factual one. Furthermore, the order is factual, because you do not see it, Mr Černohorský, Mr Bartoš, Mr Bartošek, Mr Jurečka, Mr Janda. Well, that's the order of fact. Furthermore, Mr Hájek is added to the general debate, Mr Jurečka was signed in, but it will only be after the factual ones. It will also be followed by Mr Kupka and Mr Juránek, as we can see. So I'm going to interrupt the agenda for this meeting. Enjoy your meal and I'll see you back here at 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u120	[[He's coming to the O.R.]] Good afternoon. I'm sorry, I didn't agree enough. So we're going to continue the negotiations where we left off, which is in point 2. Before I give the floor to the speakers, I'll introduce you to the apologies. Mr Kott apologizes for today's meeting between 14.30 and 15.00 for working reasons, Mr Špičák apologizes today between 15.00 and 18.00 for family reasons, Mr Vácha apologizes today between 15.00 and 19.00 for working reasons, Mr Petr Fiala apologises between 14.30 and 23.45, i.e. until the end of the day, for working reasons, and Mr Janda apologises from 16.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. We will continue to discuss item number 2 of this meeting, which is the control of the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1162 of 4 June 2020 to evaluate the course of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave with the date of fulfillment of 30 June 2020 and government information on the current occurrence of COVID in local fires, especially in the Moravian-Silesian Region. We have interrupted this item by a lunch break in the general debate. Mr Jan Bartošek, rapporteur, has already taken his place at the rapporteur's table. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. The last one before the midday break was interrupted by Mrs Olga Richterová's speech with a factual remark. If I noticed correctly, she spent a few dozen seconds on her, so I'm gonna give her two whole minutes. Please, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u121	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to clarify on the testing of workers in social facilities. What is the reason why, as Mrs Hygiene said, the Ministry of Health has ordered us to use the rapid tests that detect the disease, the antibodies. My question would be why PCR tests should not be used there to detect acute infectivity. And that is one thing in fact. And the second thing in this debate about the functioning of the current measures is whether all OKD workers, including those in the surface operations and including, and this is incredibly important, agency workers, will be tested. There are indeed thousands of people employed through agencies. And one last thing. If he really doesn't think about starting earlier. I still don't know why the more extensive testing should start until 19. 7. It's just a ten-day delay. I find it illogical, why so soon. Thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u122	Thank you. Before I invite another speaker, Mr Černohorský, with a factual remark, I will also introduce the House to what the applications are like if some forget it during the break. So, Mr Černohorský, Mr Bartoš, Mr Jurečka, Mr Janda and Mr Kohoutek. And before I give the floor to Mr Cernohorska, I will introduce the House to the apologies. Mrs Malá apologizes between 14.30 and 1933 because of the hearing, and Mr Bauer apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Please, Congressman of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u123	So thank you for your word. Last time, Mr. Bojko here said that Mrs. Zuzana Klusová was laughing. Mr Hájek here, through Mr President, has argued that he does not stand up for the miners, and Mr Hájek here is the one who said here that we are actually soaking up the miners. I think that if Mr Hájek had gone to their face and told them that we were making them at 60 percent of the salary, including the fact that if they went into quarantine, that 60 percent of the salary would have been paid to the wives, we would have seen him here for the last time. Because at this point, they are no longer covered by most of the reliefs that we have approved here in the context of a legislative emergency. At this point, it can economically destroy them, because it does not only concern miners but also those who work as agency workers. So when Mr Hájek here claimed that Deputy Commissioner Klusová was not interested in miners, he clearly does not follow, as he claimed, carefully enough what he was doing, because she was the one who was now with Dubos, one of the employers of the agency workers, agreed that they would pay them their full salary. Because as described here, it's not just about giving them, or they cut their salary, but it's a big part of it being diets. Philosophical question that I will ask myself at the end: When this was negotiated, where were you, Mr. Ambassador, when you are defending so many miners? If you follow it, as you say, you know that, in the long run, the Karvinsko region and the Moravian-Silesian region are already addressing its future, because we all know, through the President, that it will not benefit for long or long. And that was clear around 2013/2014, which we also came to in the investigation committee, because by that time, the funds were not there anymore. She stands up for people who are oppressed by recklessness. For example, those that OKD does not compensate for mining damage, and others. Thank you for the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u124	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Bartoš is not present in the hall, so his application is forfeit. Mr. Jurečka withdraws. Mr Janda is not present, respectively. Sorry. [[Messenger. Janda is present.]] Sorry. It wasn't until 4:00. Sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u125	Thank you for the floor. I just want to respond to Mr Hájek through you, Mr Vice-President. I thank the honourable Member for the compliment he has given me here or how to say it, although I do not know how sincere he meant it. Secondly, I have to make sure we use the same dictionary. I don't think you and I really use the same dictionary and we'll never use it. And thirdly, he asked if I was there. I'm from the region, I'm from the Moravian-Silesian region. And if I came to those mines, I'm not a competent person to be let in. That's what other people are for. And the people who were supposed to deal with it, as a matter of fact, Mr. Minister, Prime Minister and Secretary Schillerová, they didn't bother you. I am here to mention this problem that something like this is happening in the Moravian-Silesian region, and those who should be doing so are not doing so. And another thing, just like that. We don't have the Prime Minister here, so I don't know if you're still going to exhibate. To be fair, you as a former miner, but it doesn't feel like you're defending those miners and those affected people in that Moravian-Silesian region. I think you're rather defending the interests of your government, which has completely failed in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u126	Thank you. May I remind you that we should address ourselves through me. And now Mr Kohoutek is pulling. In that case, Mr Hájek, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u127	Mr President, colleagues, unfortunately I have to respond. I will ask my colleague Janda, through Mr President, to read my log, where it will really come from, that I am defending these miners. I really talked about it being a shame, too bad that the state got rid of ownership of OKD and that it didn't turn out like in Germany, where ten years under the state company had taken out a comprehensive social program and really took care of the miners. As far as Mrs Klusová is concerned, I said, to repeat once again, that he has a relationship with miners like Mr Okamura to migrants, and I insist. When you look at her media performances, she posted an article on Facebook in February "Does Karvinsko Have a Future? Yes, but only without coal." Yes, only without coal. In that text, she wrote, among other things, that against mining we actively speak with the SOS association in Karviná only we Pirates... and so on. That means she was able to cut off the mining at the ČSA mine with the SOS association, cut off the mining at the Darkov mine. That means at this point, it's like I'm not allowed by farmers to grow grain, forester, that you can't chew, and then I'm gonna tell you, "I'm gonna help you." He doesn't want to give you money, so I'll help you. That's hypocritical. Don't be mad at me. And as for the mining business. I've been there 36 years. When I close my eyes, I focus on the shaft, on the treatment rooms, underground, I'm still fedruating in my dream tonight. So all I have to do is get in touch with my colleagues on the phone, and I have substantially ten times as much information that I can process as if you were there ten times to visit. So I don't take it as criticism, but I just don't really need to see it, because I'm encrypted here in my head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u128	Thank you. Mr Černohorský will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u129	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, Mr Hájek should learn to distinguish between preventing the expansion of mining under the populated areas and the hatred of the miners. Which is probably adequate for the migrants mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u130	Thank you. Mr Hájek has rejoined with a factual remark, he will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Černohorský, through Mr President, I have the mining field of the 10th time before my eyes. There's no populated area. This means that the conquest that was planned was about two or three kilometers from the residential areas. This is what the project of declines, mining influences is being done for, and the area affected by the SOS had an assessment that the problems would be minimal, almost indistinguishable. That means we're going down in inches. So it wasn't really about OKD wanting to screw up the houses, that it would just be threatened that people's house would fall apart or some kind of danger. It really isn't true. I'm sorry, Lukáš, through Mr. President, I really understand. I'm sorry, but I really understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u132	Thank you. Mr Černohorský will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u133	It's the last of the miner's nipples. I'm sure that explains why they started buying out the whole old town, including all the houses. If there was hardly any influence, they wouldn't be buying it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u134	Thank you. Mr Hájek again with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u135	I'm sorry, but I have to. That means the strategy of the Dolu of the Czechoslovak Army was such that it wanted to dig the tenth, eleventh, fifteenth kr. And that's why she decided -- and if you want to do something in mining, you have to do it with a perspective of ten, fifteen, twenty years. So if the ČSA Mine ever said in 2010 that it would be kicking the tenth, eleventh, fifteenth krupa, then it had to buy out properties in advance so that it would simply be in the space that it wanted to plan so that it wouldn't really endanger lives there. Those plans have changed, and in the application I was talking about, the tenth grade, they really minimized the area of conquest, which really had almost no impact on the objects concerned. So let's really pour some pure wine. And I really don't want to stall anymore. I will explain this to you, Lukáš through the President, professionally, because I really understand 36 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u136	Thank you. I would like to call the House to the point in general, because here we are also far from the subject. I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Mr Munzar apologizes for today's meeting from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. We will now proceed. It is entered in the general debate by Mr Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Excellent has already presented concrete proposals with which we come up, concrete principles that we are trying to enforce so that the Czech Republic is more prepared for a possible second wave of Coronavirus epidemic. As early as March, we pointed out that it would be appropriate to amend the crisis law to better address damages. We come up with specific points that we have also presented. We would like to add one more thing and propose to the Chamber of Deputies a resolution in which we would order the Ministry of Health to carry out immediately stress tests on the health care system in order to detect weaknesses and to verify whether they are ready for a possible second wave of pandemic COVID-19 and any future health crisis. Stress tests should be coordinated as far as possible with other European Union countries to ensure cross-border cooperation and to establish common criteria. It's the direction the surrounding states are taking. It has again proved that, in some cases, cooperation at borders is essential and very beneficial. This is a step, a proposal that would undoubtedly benefit the Czech Republic's preparation for possible future waves, while also being prepared for any other similar epidemiological threats in the future. It turns out that an analysis of the state of affairs is undoubtedly also appropriate for individual components, parts of the system, individual hospitals, to be able to respond more easily and quickly to a possible crisis situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u138	Thank you. Please then submit the proposal in writing to the rapporteur and it is also necessary to read it in a detailed debate. I found in my remarks that Mr Jurečka was enrolled in the debate, but I do not know if this is true. [[- That's a deal.]] In the debate, yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u139	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, the only member of the government, Minister, fellow Members, I was just here to observe the gunfight between my fellow Members, so I had every desire to bring a ruler, and that we would have measured it here. [[Vojtěch]] It seemed like it wasn't quite effective anymore, the debate, but it's just my outside view. I have some important points on this matter that we are discussing here at this extraordinary meeting. Maybe when my colleague Hájek left here, it's a shame, because I wanted to mention some things directly here, because they concerned the incentives that I received from people who work directly as employees of OKD and gave me specific suggestions that e.g. When the Darkov Mine closed, some employees were transferred to other mines, and it was specifically two shifts of people who went to another mine, and this decision contributed to the spread of this virus. Then there was also talk about why the closure had not happened before. If the owner had the courage to make that decision after consulting hygiene, it would have a much greater effect on the situation. In March, the state closed tens of thousands of companies, small businesses, etc., but in the case of its own company, it did not intervene to such a step in time. And I have to say that 14 days ago, when the House of Deputies was in session, I asked here from this place how the situation in Karvinsk in the framework of the OKD government was solved. There were members of the government sitting here. I asked if there was a smart quarantine. I asked if a smart quarantine was still a clever quarantine. The Minister did not respond in any way, nor did the other members of the government. And today we have quite a very strong warning here. Since we've been running a strong relaxing measure around mid-May, and we've all said, well, the worst is over, so of course, at this point, we're getting a warning that tells us: how have you learned from the situation that's been here since mid-March? A lot of words were said here from the Prime Minister's mouth and the other members of the government who said we did it, and it will be good for the future. That's what we all wish for. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and other competent ministers who have something to say in these areas to give a list of the specific things that have been changed in the last three months. So we don't repeat any second wave. The situation in Karvinsko is indeed a very strong and seriously raised finger, which says: government, look at it, in principle no measures have been implemented so that we can say that we are significantly better prepared and instructed from the situation of the last three months. I have some specific questions, and I would very much like the Minister of Health to answer that question, or someone else from the government, if it comes to that, and that is how we are doing from the point of view of legislative action. The mentioned security law, which should address the situation in the future from the point of view of, for example, the various question marks that have been around the application of the Public Health Act. The House's meeting has been held several times since then. We have been here for several weeks and no legislative shift in the government's priority and say: we want this law here as soon as possible so that, in the case of a recurring second wave, we have a clear legislative basis on how to proceed, how to deal with it. And it's not. We do not see such activity here as Members. The issue of transparency of purchases has been discussed here, and in the case of the Ministry of Health, the transparency is with great question marks. First of all, this is under investigation within the Supreme Audit Office. I and other persons in the Czech Republic also filed a criminal complaint regarding the purchase procedure during the time of the coronavirus crisis. [[♪ We are ♪]] And we have often heard: We have been doing this because we have been in an exceptional situation, and if we had followed the Public Procurement Act, it would have been too difficult. Again, the question is: is there any shift in the fact that there is an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which the government would like to discuss in priority order to untie their hands in future in these situations for the effective purchase of state material reserves or other institutions? If I have general information, I know now, within the tender that the Administration of State Material Reserve has written out, there is a large number of offers, but it will also have to eliminate many offers that could be successful, because I am there various minor formal errors, and it would be good for the law to be adapted to allow for reasonable flexibility and procedure of the state authority even in an emergency. Another question - compensatory rules, whether legislative or interpretation of the court. There is some kind of procedure that the Minister of Justice could say on this matter so that, if necessary, citizens, companies can know what they can expect in terms of compensation, in terms of compensation, etc.? I would ask the Minister very much to tell us why such a often mentioned instrument of clever quarantine does not actually work. Why it turned out that it didn't actually lead to the desired effect, and what would change to make a smart quarantine tool work. In a few weeks' time, we can be in a situation where people who come back from different places of Europe or parts of the world from their vacations can contribute to the fact that we can very quickly observe a possible rise and the onset of a second wave. And will the smart quarantine be a better tool? Is something gonna change? Its enforcement, controllability, etc. will improve.? What's going on in that thing? I feel like nothing in particular. Even those resolutions, which we propose not only as KDU-ČSL, but also some other Members, aim not to dissect in what has ever been where, exactly in the last few weeks, who has doubted the case of OKD. Neither the miners, nor Karvinsk, nor the Czech Republic will help at this point. But it's going to teach us a lesson, and the tools, whether legislative or others, were better prepared so that people would know that there would be faster, more effective protection for them. And I confess, and I am a member of this House and I observe these things quite closely, I do not see any specific shift that might say: we systemically adjust these measures so that in the future it will be better managed. The question of education, if I'm absolutely specific. What happens when a possible second wave comes here in September? We're shutting down the whole education system again for a few months? [[Reactions from the O.R.]] He said no, the MP said no. Well, that's nice. But how will we deal with this when there can be a very rapid transfer and dissemination within schools, whether from the point of view of medical protective equipment for teachers, for pupils? What's the movement in those schools? Won't it be cooked? Is it going to cook? Is there going to be distance lessons? Will it be legally anchored? Unfortunately, I don't see any movement. Our fellow Member, Mr Jiří Mihola, and some other colleagues from other parties, propose that we anchor legislative distance teaching so that it is an instrument that will be indisputable in the future, but I do not see anything in that matter that the Minister of this Government and this Government would do. And the same could be asked by people in health care, social services, chronic patients who were dealing with the fact that they were very hard to get when they had their family loved ones in home care, they were chronic patients to get protective medical aids. To get disinfectants, etc. That's all a lot of things we've learned in the last three months that we've been catching up with them for days or weeks. Yes, we've made some progress, we're good at that as Čech, we can improvise. But it's not supposed to be like this. Once the crisis has come, perhaps every reasonable person will define the critical points and say: I will remove it as soon as possible, so that when it can happen, and the threat is very strong to be better prepared. And I can continue to the area when I mentioned the purchase of protective equipment - the tender of the state's material reserves. Where's what sounded like a month and a half ago? The need to define strategic fields, the need to strengthen and define strategic companies with which we will have cooperation in the Czech Republic. That's what's missing here, too. So there's actually quite a lot of things here that-- I don't want to take it, to beat the government as opposition here, and repeat it in a month or two. But I can see people asking us that. These people are worried. A lot of people who are older, who are sick, who are after surgeries, point out this and say: how has this been resolved in the future? And that's the question I didn't actually hear any actual answer to. Coming in, having a smile on my lips and saying it was actually all good, it's the people who live there that say they don't see it that way at all. And then hear from the Prime Minister's mouth that it was hygiene or that Karviná was responsible for the fact that the Czech Republic has a problem with some countries. That's not the solution to the problem in the future. [[15.00 hours]] I ask nicely that the government - and I am sorry that at this point, when we talk about this and we are in an emergency meeting, there is one single minister sitting here, and that does not correspond to the seriousness of the situation. And I would really hate to have to refer in two, three months' time to this speech by my colleagues and other colleagues who were giving completely rational suggestions, comments, and they did not come up. We're ready if there's any interest in helping, supporting these things. But I'm begging you, move it forward. Not that it was said a month and two ago: we're going to be dealing with a security law here, we want to have it discussed by the end of September. Where is it? Nowhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u140	Thank you. Mr Kohoutek is now here with a factual remark, but I do not see him in the hall, so I am canceling the remark. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová cancels her apology that she is already present. Mrs Langšádlová also apologizes to us today from 16.15 o'clock for work reasons and Mrs Šlechtová between half-six and half-thirty because of a doctor's visit. Mr Juránek is now in the debate. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u141	Mr President, colleagues, I have very much considered if I will get off. At the final stage, it was decided by a colleague, Hájek, who demonstrated a fundamental ignorance. And I'm glad that in the meantime, there was a break and that I could calm down a little and I didn't respond directly to his words. I certainly wouldn't succeed because I'm far from mastering a great dictionary like my colleague Hájek, and I can't tell him to his face here because he's not here right now. But I'll start with something else. We didn't meet here in the first place because of Karviná, we met here on the basis that the House resolution was 1162. And this Karviná is just a part of something to tell us in the future. And I'm not here to criticize because I've experienced what it's like to have to make decisions in crisis situations. And I, just for the record, as mayor, made a once-in-a-lifetime decision as Chief of Staff, and as a member of the Security Council, I worked with my successor in six cases. You know, there's always a lot of things that need to be thanked in the first place, because as part of the improvisation, a lot of things are going well with us. And so did we, and now the government has succeeded. And I think it's important to thank you very much for the improvisation phase. However, based on my experience, I ask what we should improve in the future. And, of course, I've been dealing with how to change the crisis laws, or, above all, the major crisis law. And I found out that on a number of things, I have to say that they didn't happen in the best of terms, because we didn't follow the crisis law. And I will repeat this once again: because we did not comply with crisis laws, there were the biggest problems. And here, please, let's actually take one thing at a time and realize what might help if the emergency started first. And I want to bounce away from this, and I want to say that for me, it's not a question of what was, of course, there are things that need to be checked, but there are a lot of things that have already been said here, but I'm concerned about what is going to happen. One of those things that is that we're still doing with all the steps we're doing is making a fundamental mistake that we're not following crisis laws. And here I will also go to Karviná, because it is, after all, the only example that is spoken of out loud today. And thank you very much to the Vice-President of the House, I will not call him by name at this time, but I will call him Mayor Karviná. [[turns to Vice President Hanzal]] He tells ex-boyfriends, but I have the opinion that mayor and mayor is a man all his life if he was, because he's worried about the village, and the city stays in his heart. So I took the liberty of addressing him to Mayor Karviné. His performance was a big fit, but he was talking very specifically, he wasn't talking about something abstract. He talked about how bad people feel in an environment where they are also blamed for not being able to go to Slovenia. And he wasn't just speaking for his town, he was talking for all of Karvinsko, so I wouldn't accidentally mess things up and say the wrong thing. But after all, it's exactly what I'd expect from a man here in this town and, in fact, in the whole region, he worked in the entire district. And I thank him very much for that, and I beg you all to look either at his performance or at the log, so that there is no way that there is nothing left in the citation of the various legal measures that people in Karvinsk feel bad about at the moment, and how unfair it is that they are attributed to the disease that they are to blame. They can't. And on the other hand, there is another thing, and there I will refer to the fact that there has already been a man here who explained how crisis laws work, and this is fellow Luzar here. I thank him for that. He explained it very wide, so I can only refer to it. And I'll say, it's not true that there are no options. And I will turn directly to Mr. Governor through the President and here, because I want to bring what my colleague Hájek here has said in the end, and I want to get to that point. The county has its options. And now I'm gonna go back to having a rough time. We have experienced, I have experienced a number of floods and a number of other events. If we have these things, we can never prepare for them in a hundred percent. Here I dare say we'll never be ready for every flood. And just look at what happened in the Troubky. They were ready for the flood in Trubky when it came from the river, but she came across the hill from the forest. We'll never be ready for anything, all this stuff here. We'll never be 100% ready for the coronavirus, and we can figure out what we want. But we must have a certain order in everything. And the crisis law here assumes that it is not possible to control everything from the centre, and for that purpose, within the crisis law in each region, the governor has his office, an office that is completely independent, called as the governor, i.e. the governor's authority, and he has his options and his responsibilities in the given area. I'm stressing that he has options. After all, my colleagues before me both talked about the possibilities. But I'm going to say it hard now: when it uses these options, hygiene workers are also better off. Because they can lean on the decision the governor made. I'm not gonna talk about what was supposed to be done because I don't know, I wasn't there. But I'm just gonna say a little thing from when I was the captain. The flood began, which, as it turned out, was one of the two largest floods at the beginning of this millennium. And they turned to me from the Flood of Moravia, and said, It is a flood, and we do not know how to declare it. Because we have different rules. We have economic rules, we can't do anything. And at the end of the day, they were grateful that I declared the flood as the captain. Because I could've done something like that based on crisis management. It wasn't because I was so smart. That was because it was the only possible solution. And that's why I'm stressing that there are a number of options that are here from this position. I didn't want to talk about it, but I was very touched by the performance of my colleague Hájek, who said that we are, however, folks in the coalition in the Moravian-Silesian region and that we certainly have all the options. He didn't say options, I don't want to quote it wrong now. But he basically said and approached Curylo directly that he should know everything and that we shouldn't react to some things at all because we know everything and we shouldn't ask that question. [[15.10 hours]] That's not true. Curylo operates within the Moravian-Silesian Region as a member of the Moravian-Silesian Region Council. Whoever really is responsible for things that concern security is always just the captain. He has powers there that no one else can beat, nor any other component of the integrated rescue system. And I am therefore opposed to what my colleague Hájek has said, I cannot even use it because my colleague Hájek is not here. And I want him to realize that the responsibility is not at the council, nor at the council, nor at the office of the Moravian-Silesian Region, but at the authority called the Governor, who is commanded by the governor with all the powers he has. And if we're going to talk about the possibilities here in the future for the other regions, then I want to say that the possibilities are, whether they are in Kutná Hora, which is here, and which I quote, or anywhere else, so there are possibilities here to proceed to the solutions that are within the region. And as a folklore, I stress that we always want problems to be solved at the lowest possible level, because a number of security issues can be solved by the mayor of the community who has it, or the mayor of any of those cities that we have as statutory. But when he doesn't know what to do, he turns up and turns to the governor or turns to the Ministry after that. And now I'm going to give specific examples that were at the time of coronavirus. The mayors deal when they can, drapes and respirators. But when the mayor of the village is supposed to arrange a third-type respirator for a person on the WWTP and finds that no one can find him, that no one has him, he has to turn to the edge first, and the county, if he doesn't have a threesome respirator and he is supposed to be secured for workers in sewage treatment plants, so he turns up. And I just want us to know that this is the gradual system. And the governor is in a similar situation. If he doesn't have the things that enable him to do an integrated rescue system, the things that he's capable of under crisis laws, he has the great power to turn up. And I see here as the easiest to pick up the phone and call the Home Secretary because that's how it's described in the crisis law. However, we are in these matters - and this is my message that I want to pass on here, and I want us to deal with it, not at the moment and to adopt a resolution, but to deal with it in terms of dealing with crisis management, but first of all, we have to say where we have not used and could have used the crisis management, and only then to create new things. I don't want to put anyone to blame, but I want to say that what's the worst at the moment is that we have great laws, a colleague named Luzar described it, and I perceive them because I had to perceive them almost every day for 16 years in my life, and we don't use them. And that is why I believe that it is necessary in the context of looking backwards, that we will say to each other - we have not used this. I'm saying again, I don't want to put anybody on the line for this, but I'm saying this as a man who's been the captain for eight years, and, as I say, he's been working on the Security Council for six more, so I'm saying that we're much better prepared than we are right now from the debate that we're having here at the moment. Therefore, I repeat, it is not my wish that we come to this and say - it is precisely this and this man. No. To tell ourselves, we had options that we didn't use, and only then were we looking for ways to change the crisis law. And what I have to say necessarily in conclusion. Shooting into the Ministry of Health is quite simple, you can blame everything on it at the moment. I only put one thing on him, but I do not know to what extent the Minister of Health is responsible - that he is not acting under crisis laws, but according to everyone else. And if we talk about that thing the Minister here said he was going to go to the government with something and deal with it by 19. 7. - here I hope I have correctly recorded this date from my colleague Richterová - so I dare say that if we apply crisis laws as we can, we will never make it to such a distant date as 19. 7. Therefore, I ask you not to approach me at this moment, as if I am a opposition or a coalition. I'm a guy who's always after the county, in parentheses of the county. Because we were building these parts together. I was the one who was at the very beginning. We had floods pretty soon, we had to go through this. There's a fellow Zahradník with me. I don't see a colleague named Bendl. But I'm not alone here. At the time we had to deal with the first problems that were, and we didn't even know the law properly yet, and we had to act on it. It is a request that we realise on this matter that not using the crisis law is not using the weapon that we can have and which will make it easier for our experts to work as well. And I have no doubt that both regional and national health care workers would be welcome if they acted under a crisis law and not according to any other law. And since different people can run it, I can only turn to you, Minister, because there is no other. [[Health]] But it's not the work of one person in that government. It is a job for the whole government - and I am now addressing the whole government because I am convinced that it hears or hears me somewhere - I am simply calling you to assess that the use - I am glad to address the Prime Minister too - that the use of crisis laws will make things very much easier for us. [[Prime Minister Babiš is coming to the government bench]] It's my request. It's my request, because like the rest of you, and as citizens of this country, I'm worried about what happens when the second wave of pandemics comes -- coronavirus, I don't even want to call it a pandemic, but whatever we call it. But she can also come up with another wave of floods, it can come up with anything else. And I'm just asking you to assess at this point, regardless, that the best course of action in all these cases is to stick to crisis management. It's my only message I want to say here. And again, I don't want to attack anyone, but I've tried to tell you clearly in every way that we can achieve better results if the future wave comes. I was in a pretty serious operation right now, and I was advised to always end up in some way... I want to thank everyone who cares about making things better for the future. And believe me, I'm not the one who turns backwards and wants to explore things. The only reason I want to look back and evaluate these things is so that next time, I and anyone else can behave in a better way. Thank you for listening to me. And please, once again, let's try to follow the laws that help us to the maximum extent possible. And believe me, I don't blame anyone for not using this law as much as possible, but please let us use everything that crisis laws allow us to do in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u142	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Vondrák is registered. By the time he gets to the mic, I'll introduce the House to the apologies. Mrs Langšádlová apologises today until 16.15, not from 16.15, this is a correction from me, and Mr Richter apologizes today between 14.30 and 19.00 for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u143	Thank you, good afternoon. Mr Juránek, through Mr President, the flood is not a pandemic. The flood is located in certain areas and has quite clearly given principles and rules. The pandemic, this pandemic, is global. And I don't think the crisis system that's being designed is a solution to the pandemic at all. It only deals with an emergency situation where it is directly in the list, when the emergency situation is being implemented. It is introduced in the field of pandemics. Not a state of danger. This is the first important thing to be realized. That the rules aren't there. And we live in the rule of law, and in the rule of law, it means that the governor can do what the law allows him to do. And there's a list of what it allows him to do. And it doesn't say that it can stop the OKD, it doesn't say that it can order a full-scale test, there's nothing in that list that can actually affect the pandemic. He can provide a kind of substitute service from the point of view of compulsory work obligations, he can provide logistics, but he can't make decisions for a health station. He can't. It's not written like that in the law. So I'm pretty sorry you've been the captain for years and you don't know that at all. Don't be mad at me. This is ignorance of the rule of law. I can't do things arbitraryly. And if you've done them, congratulations on not being noticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u144	Thank you. Mr Juránek will respond with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u145	Thank you. In any case, I will first turn to the Chamber of Deputies, and I did not say it out loud, but I am simply convinced that there is a need to look for a way that the Governor can make. And so, as I was talking at the beginning about the mayor's example, who is unable to arrange a third-class mask, so I'm saying that the governor has a clear path when he can't use his stuff, and I've highlighted it here, he can pick up the phone, and he can call the Home Secretary. But the second thing is, I've been marked here that I don't know the law. And that the captain here accused me of that. I will say it backwards: Mr Governor, I did not want to say it, but I say it through the President: Mr Governor, you could have done more than you did. And I didn't want to say it. And I only ask that you yourself look at the things that are related to this law and ask your subordinates, who would be very happy if you would act as the governor in the context of the crisis law and if you were more courageous. I'm sorry, but you started it. That means, I just want to say here that I'm walking away from it again and I'm saying, it's not important. I'm sure the Governor will defend himself in some way, and I'll let him have it, and I won't answer again. And I understand. I'm sorry he's just before the election. I am not running in the Moravian-Silesian Region and in the South Moravian Region in 21st place. But now I'm calling it a fall. [[Attention on time.]] I'd say the same if you were a KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u146	Thank you. Mr Vondrák is registered for a factual remark and will use it: Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u147	I think that responsibility is part of the governor's function. And declare a state of danger on the grounds that OKD is being conducted, Mr President, that is nonsense. When there was a situation that we were unable to logistically secure all hospitals, all intensive care units, supplies and things related to it, then I wouldn't consider it for a minute. But nothing like that happened. And I would like to tell you that this Mr. Curylo you are talking about, Mr. First Vice-President, is also the first Vice-President of the Security Council of the Region. And I didn't hear anything from him that you just said. So I'd like to say that what you said isn't true. There was nothing more to be done except in the event of an emergency or a state of danger. And the effects of this state are much worse than what's happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u148	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Vondrák. The problem is that the number of infected people comes first, and then the numbers of the busy ips and the failing health care guy, and there's about 14 days of delay. So if you wait for a full ICU, it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u150	Mr Vondrák has made a point of fact and will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u151	Every day I communicate the whole situation with the ÚZIS, with Professor Dušek. And one of those criteria for declaring an area quarantine in the area is to meet the criteria that lead to this. And one of them is just overflowing the health system. So far, we're halfway through this from the point of view of hospital occupancy, which was in March and April. So the situation hasn't occurred yet to declare a state of danger. And by the way, we're not waiting for that. We called a meeting of all 17 hospitals last week, and we prepared a state of basically such that we could provide minimum stays in hospitals and, of course, prepare care for those who would be ventilated. We have 149 ventilated beds. So far, if there's nine tough cases, it's a lot. So I'd say we need to look at real data and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u152	Mr Jurečka is now registered with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u153	Thank you. I would like to ask that we really try to look above all at the situation with some perspective and a lesson in that we have now experienced some crisis developments in one location for the last three weeks. And above all, to think about how we can make this a measure so that we don't get into that situation in the next two or three months. Of course, it would probably also be fair for this debate, and that is not possible nowadays, I do not even call after it, it would also be pulled into the management of the company, because over the last three months there have been hundreds of companies in the Czech Republic that have left themselves responsible as employers at home. They have done their utmost to do so even at the expense of limiting their economic activity. And that's what I miss about the OKD management decision making. Just like when the miners told me they had to come to the job, they came together and got information about whether they were positive or negative when they were injected. That's how it was at first. I don't want to judge whether it really was, or not, the people who work there told me. And I think it would be important to deal with that, too. But let somebody else deal with that. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister here, who has finally come to the afternoon part, from the Minister of Health, which of these particular things will change. So that the smart quarantine is a clever quarantine, that the legislative things that need to be changed and updated to get us here at the meeting of this House. That's what we're here for as MPs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u154	Thank you. These are all factual points at the moment, so now Mr Válek is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u155	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think we've done far more for Karvina and Karvinsko to make them visible than Yo Yo Banda ever did. So I think everyone's gonna see the difference between Karvin and Karvin. And whoever didn't crap at least once will feel inferior. At least I feel and I'm sure I'll dig up a kilo of coal to be a regular decent person. That's what I feel mostly about the discussion. [[15.30 hours]] I still haven't figured out whether or not everything happened in that focus from start to finish as it should or didn't happen. If it didn't happen, if it was in the power of the regional leadership to do something differently, or in the power of the ministry, I wouldn't even know, and I don't care anymore, because it doesn't matter, it was. It's not one outbreak. As far as I know, there are three outbreaks, there are Windy Jenikov, who is in another region, and the Church, which is also in another region, so that there are three places where there are some larger number of infected. I guess talking about medical matters makes no sense, because, first of all, we're not here, most of us, virtually none of us are an expert on the issue. It's a professional thing. And I am looking forward to the scientific advice of the Ministry, where I will ask what the results are from the fact that in this community spread, where it has been tested, and quite well tested, quite a lot of asymptomatic ones, as has been said here, unmarked miners, so there were 20 percent positively tested, and in other similar types, remember those projects that ran here, were tested positively in an unmarked community - only 3 or 6 percent were positive, so what makes it different. I'm sure I'm going to ask how it is possible that 20 percent of the miners were unmarked when the World Health Organization didn't admit that most of the sick could be unmarked. After a while, she admitted that part of the patients were without symptoms. And as far as I know, the only big test, such a flat, took place in southern Italy in one city, where the symptomsless ones were only 40 percent. So here, basically, the miners are almost 100 percent unsigned, so you said, so I'd like to know what the explanation is for if it's a mutation of the virus. And these are all professional things that probably don't belong here, but I think they're interesting, and I hope we'll discuss them. A pandemic is something the World Health Organization declares. The outbreak of an epidemic in the Czech Republic makes absolutely no sense to put it together. We simply have to prepare here for the World Health Organization to say at some stage that the pandemic has ended, and then for individual outbreaks in the Czech Republic that will cyclically appear, as outbreaks of hepatitis, measles outbreaks and flu outbreaks occur, we will have to deal with it in some way, and we should have a tool to deal with these outbreaks. We've got a good idea, and I think a very well-functioning system when a dysentery outbreak occurs, when an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease occurs, when an outbreak of hepatitis occurs, when an outbreak occurs, I don't know, measles. We don't have a clue when the focus of the covid comes up. So far we're wandering around looking for culprits, and basically most of those questions didn't have any clear answers. The way I would see it, the wave, when we were afraid thousands of people were going to die, is over, and we're not really afraid of that wave anymore. And that's a good thing, and we don't mind that we've got a couple hundred or a thousand, fifteen hundred miners and their family members in the sea. I'd understand if the state felt that way. In light of this, I'm missing why some authorities still have limited traffic due to the covid. I'll name the City Social Security Administration Brno, which doesn't work. It works in limited operation and is posted that it works in limited operation due to covid. I find that fascinating, and it also shows how not everything is under control. She's not here, Secretary Maláčová. I'll send it to her as a written interview. If she were here, I'd ask her in this debate what about the city administration in Brno, where virtually nobody has covid anymore, has another, that they're so terribly afraid of the covid and they're closed. Or closed. The whole system is set up on several steps, which the chief health care professional here has described beautifully, and I thank her for that. In the first phase, we need to have organized moping up those patients. I don't know which one of you was wiped out, so I'm not talking about different types of mopping, but wiped out as a suspect with a covid, and which one of you went through it. I was wiped out once, unsuccessfully, because I threw up on it. I'm sensitive when they put a spatula down my throat. They must wipe one arch, the other arch, and then quite deep into your nose - I never thought I had such a long nose - to insert a stick and wipe you for the third time. They do all that with two sticks in one test tube. It's not easy, not everyone can do it, and the person needs to be trained. This kind of mop used to be done by trained nurses, medical training today, trained soldiers doing it, students doing it. So if we want to organize a flat-screen, single-scaling oral and nasal swab so that we have quality samples to test for covid, then the system has to be set up for it, we have to lift it - I'll say it very much - a group of wipers, bring it to a certain place, and there that group of wipers has to quickly wipe out a large sample of the population within, say, one or two days. I didn't know who to organize this, whether it was the Governor or the Ministry, or the County Hygiene Station, and how. After the patients or suspects, the ones we want to test, the wipes, we need to examine the samples. We're talking microRNA examination here. The self-examination takes about three hours. There are machines that can do it in an hour, there are machines that take three hours, but the capacity of the machines is limited, the machines can do 24 samples, 48 samples, some number of samples, and then three hours they test. [[Noise in the hall.]] So if we wipe out, say, 1,500 people at once, then we have to have the labs ready. There's plenty of labs, the performance is covered by insurance. We've got to get ready...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u156	Ambassador, I understand. Your voice may be powerful, but your colleagues have spoken in the benches. I'd like to challenge them to end these calls or move them into the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u157	So we need to have a system set up for the lab to investigate the samples quickly. And again, I would like to know who will organise this system in the event of a local outbreak, whether the Governor, whether the regional health department, the chief health officer, the Minister of Health. Who's gonna be the one who says "now," and the labs are gonna start testing. Then we test the samples and send the results to the central registry. It works, the results go to the central register and the central register sends them to the county health station. So either the results have to go directly to the county health department, and then the county health station has to inform the 1,500 people who have been sampled, whether I still don't use the word, whether they were positive or negative. And that's not possible in the personnel casts of those county health stations at one time. Or the information goes to the central registry, and the central registry, which I thought was a smart quarantine, somehow organizes it, but it doesn't really work, and the chief hygienist here confirmed that. So the third thing that I'm interested in, and I'd like it to be prepared, planned, clearly prepared, how quickly we'll inform all those people we've wiped out in the morning in three hours, by four, by five, we'll have the results, that day, whether they're positive or not, because technically this is possible if it's secured by sufficient personnel. It is hardly possible to provide personnel on site, because such a reserve is never staffed or capacity on site. And finally, he decides whether to be quarantined isn't to be quarantined, what measures are meant to be, but that's the last of it. But this process here should take place quite quickly and it should take place effectively and this is how I would imagine the launch of a clever quarantine, which then by tracing all the contacts of these positively identified and put them in isolation, and thus eliminates the risks from that outbreak to a minimum. Here I want to hear all that can happen, I don't know if the county, when the pandemic ends, or the ministry or the chief hygienist, or who would do it to do it this way quickly, because in the time possibilities and in the same way, it's possible that in the morning the wiped-out group, in the morning the samples were evaluated that day and that day the people got information about whether or not they were positive. The system should prove it, the system should offer it, and it should be effective enough to do it. The last thing I'd like to talk about, and that's what I'd like to propose as part of the resolution, because I think we have to think ahead and we don't keep looking for some culprits, it's exhausting and tiresome, all the time, it feels to me like everyone's still meeting and looking for who's responsible for the patient's death. That's completely ineffective. The key is to find out what's to be done to make sure it doesn't happen next time. Meaning, we were talking about vaccinations, just marginally. I'd like to say that the vaccine is being developed by three companies. One of them already makes it. Astra Zeneca, according to my information, has been producing a vaccine for a month now, even though he does not have an FDA improvised it, however, he does it. The vaccine is made by Pfizer and the vaccine by a consortium of companies. The vaccine is available. Again, I know he doesn't have the FDA Improval, the other two companies will get it within a few weeks, so it's practically 100% certain that a vaccine will be available in the fall. According to the information I have, several countries in the European Union have agreed and made a pre-order for the European Union in the number of 400 million units to be used to vaccinate the citizens of the European Union, and now the individual states are to prepare vaccination plans. The price of the vaccine should be between 8 and 10 euros. [[15.40 hours]] In the light of this, because, as chairman of the relevant subcommittee, which is in charge of introducing new technologies and new treatment procedures, in my opinion, I put information at the September meeting of the subcommittee from the association of distributors and from these companies, as far as it goes, when the substances will be available in the Czech Republic. And that's why I'd think it's time to start preparing for when the substance will be available in the fall, when it's possible to start a vaccine against the covide next year. If it doesn't, it'll be a waste of preparation. But it's often useless to prepare. And preparation is the key to success, even if it can be useless. I mean, if we're going to be vaccinated from next year, then we should be prepared, how we're going to buy the substance, whether we're going to pay for it from the state budget, if so, how, or whether it's going to be paid for by those who get it. And if the interest is consistent with a study conducted three weeks ago, that means that about 60 per cent of the population is interested in vaccination, which is 60 per cent of the population in our Czech Republic, which is 6 million people, which system we plan here 6 million, 3 million, 5 million, 8 million, I don't know how many people it will inoculate. This should be well prepared, well thought out. Perhaps Parliament's synergies will be needed. Perhaps Parliament will have to adopt an amendment in some brief procedure, as we adopted an amendment because of Meningococci, and I thank you very much for that through the President's Member, so I would think that it may be necessary to adopt this vaccination here in a short procedure, and perhaps as mandatory, I do not know. But I would expect the Department of Health to be up for this over the holidays, to have a clear plan and strategy, to present it to the Chamber of Deputies, of course, can't have it now, but there's plenty of time to set it up. I would therefore like to conclude, then, in the second part, with a resolution, which I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support, that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to present by 1. 11. 2020 distribution plan of purchase and vaccination system against COVID-19. I am aware that the vaccine may not be available at the time, but I am aware that one company is already producing it. And I would like us to be ready in time this time and not have a discussion about why we didn't get ready in time. So I tried to be constructive in conclusion and plan ahead of time. And I hope, therefore, that I will be positively praised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u158	Thank you. Once again, I will ask for a motion for a resolution from the rapporteur and note that it must be read in a detailed debate. Mr Rakušan is reporting with a point of fact. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, It was already this morning and this morning that questions were being asked about the Minister. I haven't heard any specific answers yet. Since the Czech Republic, too, had its own ambitions to deal with the development of a vaccine against covid, I would of course be interested in how this ambition is fulfilled, whether we are doing well or not. And I would very much like the Minister to give us general information as to whether he was within the European Union, because the information I have heard from my colleague, Mr Válek on Vaccines and its preparation, was therefore much more specific than I have heard so far, Minister, officially from your mouth. So if you could also tell us whether, at that European level, the Czech Republic is involved in any way in development, or if we have our own development, whether we are preparing to actually prepare a vaccination plan at a time when the vaccine will be available to make it clear whether the matter will be covered or whether people will simply have to prepare themselves for a vaccine, which will certainly not be cheap, at that first stage more expensive than in the next stages, they will have to buy themselves, but at the same time we will be ready for who we will actually be inoculating at that first stage, whether only those who will apply for it or simply have some priority groups in health care, education and so on. I think it would be good if the Department of Health just gave us some kind of report on this. I know the vaccine isn't available yet. But I think sometimes it's good to look into the future a little bit, prepare, rather than be surprised again and have no system in it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u160	Thank you. And now, as the last one, Mr Svoboda is entered into the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have considered very much whether to speak. That's a popular line here. But because I feel a certain responsibility that I didn't finish something, I decided to talk. As you know, it was January 28 when I pointed out that we were at risk, and I asked the House to deal with this matter so that we could get information from the Minister and the Government as it is prepared for a possible pandemic. I didn't use the word pandemic because the World Health Organization canceled that word about five years ago. Nobody knows why. When the entire coalition's votes got muddled up and we didn't talk about it, I told the minister he'd be sorry. And I was actually more sorry, because I should have tried harder to make it work, because we lost a time that would have been very crucial, and maybe it would have all looked different. Maybe. I don't know. And that's why today is why I'm talking. We have repeatedly asked the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to deal with how we will proceed when the second wave comes, or there will be another problem with this epidemic. Specific questions as to how those who are at increased risk will be guaranteed, how they will be handled when they reach the number of ill, infected with a certain number, how the entire care for the medical problem will be ensured, because the epidemic, the infection, is primarily a medical problem. Of course, it has a huge economic component in it. Of course he has a huge social component in him. But this is primarily a medical problem that has been described in detail over the last 100 years, and it has developed terribly, in books called Infectious Medicine and Epidemiology, where it is defined by what needs to be addressed. And if the issue of infection and its epidemiology is addressed, there are key tasks that medicine needs to solve. And these are also tasks that the government, the Ministry of Health and, of course, regional self-government have to solve. These are the basic tasks that have to be solved. The first question to make sure we can diagnose the infection and find out. Those are all the questions about how those samples are to be taken, how the tests are to be done. And of course these are questions about what we want, which we have not yet learned - why the diagnostics do not work, why it takes so long, why after so long a patient will know why after so long an epidemiologist will find out and why we have such a high error rate in the diagnosis. The other thing that needs to be medically assured is that the transfer route is found, how it's transmitted. Here we know that this is probably the most aspirational transmission that the transmission that was considered, that is, by the transfer of the limbs, by the touch, is probably unlikely. We know that. Therefore, we must ensure that we know which groups are most at risk by being exposed to any contact where the infection will occur, and therefore we must ensure what is now called modern tracking, that is to say, getting all these possible contacts so that we can take care of them as soon as possible. And that's the situation we're asking about, because the situation isn't secured. There is no tracking in the form of a clever quarantine. Because if it did exist, people would have been contacted at a much shorter time than they are now. The third thing that needs to be addressed in infectious diseases is the question of their possible therapy or pretreatment. We know at therapy that we don't have one yet. But we do know that a vaccine is developing very intensively. And that's the area that the government and the Ministry of Health should be dealing with today. What do we do if the vaccine shows up somewhere? Shall we buy it? She will not have all the conditions, probably all the conditions that are required for the vaccine to be used in humans in mass, not just in the form of some testing and experiments. That means we're going to have to take a position on this, because that means we're going to have to inform people that this vaccination could be a risk we don't know. That's what we need to get ready for. [[15.50 hours]] Of course we have to get ready for what the price will be and how we will pay for it. We don't have any answers to any of this. We are currently well dealing with local epidemic issues, but we actually should not be saying 90 percent of what is being said at this point, because the Minister should answer all of this. When we ask him, the answer always sounds the same. My first file, and it's: it's all well done, we've got it under control. And the other file, if it's less controlled, is: we'll know in 14 days. But that's a long time, and we should have all known those answers, not been here looking for them. This is simply an obligation for one who is responsible for this country to ask himself or have experts present these questions and start looking for solutions and answers. Not so that we are here, and what our colleague Válek said at the end, for example, is a series of very interesting and important suggestions that we should not only accept, they should be fulfilled by now. And that's why my appeal, like that January 28th, is still the same. Don't neglect it! Don't neglect it! Do something intense at last! The steps you are taking must be the steps that will be discussed publicly, because the risk of panic in the population is great and the population must be informed. Our people are able to deal with it, and the paramedics aren't at all. But let's not put it off, let's do it right away, so that we can actually at the moment of a small epidemic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u162	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for more peace. I can't hear you. Please, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u163	I know I say things that are unpopular to most of this House. I know I've never pushed them. I know how you handled that information on January 28th. Yet I feel the inner need to say it. Just because the person who called me, everyone said, "Why didn't you say it more intensely? Why didn't you convince them? So I'm here now to say it again, what I've been saying all along. Let's do it! Take care of it, government! Take care of it, Prime Minister! Take care of it, Minister! And for all the questions we ask, have a ready answer and a solution. Those questions aren't stupid. These questions are fundamentally very important, and if we don't intervene in all the four possibilities that the epidemic has, that means diagnosis, treatment and its epidemiology and prevention, we just can't solve this thing. The things we're saying here, whether it's for the chieftain or the mayor to decide, that's also important. It needs to be organized. But that's also what we're supposed to answer centrally. We're supposed to recant, and there shouldn't be a situation where two officers are arguing about what they can and what authority they have. I'm not interfering. I also have experience with this, I was both, as mayor of Prague I had a region, so I control all this, but I stick to what I really think I understand, i.e. medical issues. And the only call I have now is the same as that January 28th: Minister, don't move on so that you don't have to regret it again. I am very aware that you are making it clear to me that you understand this better. Your noding says, "Don't talk to me like that, I know better." It's possible, but history will ask again and answer itself. Again, these are things that will not change anything new. It's been going on for decades. Experience with epidemics from Africa and developing countries is so great, and so many epidemiologists have been there, so these experiences are like that, and I just can't accept it when I say some things that I think are essential, and the answer to that is to shake my head: no, we have everything under control. I saw that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u164	Thank you. Now I have two factual points. First is Mr Lubomír Volný, then Mr Výborný. Before they arrive at the microphone, I will tell the House that Mr Benda apologises from 16 o'clock for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that I will not be able to produce an anti-vaccine shootout from this, but since we are already talking about what to prepare for, perhaps the government should prepare itself for the disgust of doctors to be vaccinated with untested vaccines, as we saw in 2009, for example, when leading doctors, such as cardiothoracic surgeon Jan Pirk or Professor Pavel Pafko or Lukáš Pollert, refused to be vaccinated with an untested vaccine, and if I am not mistaken, 99 percent of doctors did exactly the same thing, 90 percent of nurses did exactly the same. We spent several hundred million crowns on a vaccine that we then tried to offer for nothing to someone else. So maybe we could get a doctor to do a survey, see if they're getting any vaccine that's been tested for 14 days, three weeks tops, inoculation. Maybe in private, we could go out for a while, and there's a doctor's colleague who could tell me whether they're gonna get vaccinated or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u166	Thank you. And now Mr. Výborný will speak with a point of fact, then Mr. Svoboda is signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u167	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to address Minister Adam Vojtěch if he can follow me for a moment. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, you have been able to respond to some of the questions or suggestions that have been raised in the morning, but I do not understand it - as you are not giving a shit about us, we have got used to it, but it is being watched by the public, so at least to those people in Karvinska and throughout the country you should have the decency to respond to those suggestions. Here were perfectly correct questions as to how we are doing with pandemic legislation, at what stage is preparation. My colleague, Mr Válek, spoke here about whether a vaccination plan is being prepared if it is a vaccine. nic. ticho. You're sitting here like a hard "y" and you're not even able to respond to these specific stimuli. I would really like to be able to respond not to us, but to the public, to absolutely correct questions and suggestions! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u168	Thank you. Mr Svoboda is now registered with a factual remark. By the time she gets to the microphone, Mrs. Kořanová cancels her apology. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u169	Thank you. I want to respond to the fact that doctors don't get vaccinated. I told you. One of the serious tasks that falls on the Ministry and on health care professionals and epidemiologists is to explain why the situation is so serious that it is necessary to reach out to a vaccine that does not yet have a hundred percent examination, because the situation is extraordinary. And when they say it and do it, I believe that the medical community accepts it. The moment we don't have it ready and we come in and we say, here's the vaccination, and we're gonna vaccinate, so I'm afraid you were right, and those paramedics aren't gonna do it because they know what it might mean. I am convinced that even if there is no complete testing that the preparation of the companies that are doing this will be such that the security will be as far as possible, but everyone who is involved in this knows that vaccination - it is a bit different, but it has from 1 to 8 percent complications. And that's what we need to know, and when we tell each other, we say, it's necessary. I can understand that I can fall into that one percent, but everyone around me will be healed. I understand that. That's my job. That's what I do. I just do it when I need to, no matter what it does to me. That means, as soon as I'm convinced that the vaccination will help those people as a whole, I'll go with them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u170	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný is now registered for a factual remark. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce the House with another note. Mr Vondrák apologizes between 16 and 19 pm, respectively. by the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u171	Thank you. Colleagues, co-workers, it simply gave me nothing but a response to the Výborný colleague. My colleague, do you know what it means to preach water and drink wine? It's something like that when you lecture us here on how to be polite, how to treat each other nicely and smile. If you say here that the Minister of Health, who has now worked three months with 18-hour shifts and seven-day weeks, sits like a hard "y," when he writes everything down carefully, you should look at him better so he can answer to all those who have spoken here, so I didn't like it at all. And it's your expression that sits as hard y, it's just unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u172	Good afternoon. Mr Svoboda reports with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u173	Minister, of course, I apologize for the term "hardy." That's the thing I said, sometimes it happens to a person, or someone else said it. But what I want to say now. Don't argue with me that the Minister worked 12 hours a day. We worked 24 hours a day. We had day, night, day, night, no time off. As a leader, I practically couldn't leave there. That, of course, is the situation. And we can't praise ourselves for that. I'm not telling anyone what it was, what it meant to us. But it's not a situation for us to say that to each other. We don't have to brag about who we slept less and who we did more. We have to say, we need to do this, and we need to do that again, even if it takes some time. And if the word hard y falls, come on in Czech - that's hard y and soft also there are two concepts that other languages don't have, then we wouldn't say it in English. [[with laughter]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u174	With a factual remark, Mr Marek will speak Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u175	Thank you. Your way to the Volný Member. I didn't question the commitment of any member of the government or the Minister of Health in the last three months. That's really not what we're talking about here. And I've also repeatedly evaluated the government here in the past few months. What I said, and if it is that the Minister is ready to respond to all these things - he responded immediately this morning. It makes sense when something sounds, I respond to it. If he reacts at the end, it'll be just fine. I wanted to at least ask him, I said it would be good not for us, but for the public, for the things that have been said here, specific, correct questions, I also said from colleagues, whether this is a colleague of Svoboda or a colleague of Válek or myself, to respond. And if that's the case, it'll be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u176	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be the last to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u177	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Government, I would like to comment as Chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution on the amendment to the Constitutional Law on State Security. There were also questions that fell. As I am, of course, in permanent communication with the Minister of the Interior and with the Vice-President of the Government, I would like to say to the House, but of course to all those following us that this law is almost complete, there have already been two communication circles between the departments concerned. As far as the MPs are concerned, because the Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister Jan Hamáček made the promise that this will be consulted in advance, these consultations are planned to take place by the end of July. That means it's faster than the Prime Minister Jan Hamáček's government resolution. You all know that the Ministry of the Interior has repeatedly announced that this law is key, that it is a priority, will proceed as quickly as possible. And before I got out here, I re-checked that this is how it was. So I just want to reassure you, my fellow Members, that, as members of Parliament, you will have this information, it will be a paragrafo text, and it will be consulted with you in July, which I think is speed enough. I therefore respond, among other things, to the way some political parties have formulated the motion for a resolution. I don't think that's necessary, because the Home Office is working properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u178	Well, thank you. Since it was the last application for a debate, I... Mr. Cernohorsky still. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u179	Thank you for the floor. There were still questions that were in the direction of regional hygiene. I was looking at the tape that the principal -- she always started to answer, but she ran out of time, so she basically didn't even finish the sentence. So there was a question as to why some OKD workers are at home, and why most surface workers still go to work, namely coal treatment plants. Then Mr. Hájek and I got caught up here. So it was a little... It's a bit of a mix-up here. If the principal has already left, if there's any way to answer it in writing, if you don't mind me asking. Then there is no answer as to how long it takes to go through, or to track down the one person with a clever quarantine, without it, and where there are possibly the reserves of the system, if this could be communicated to the Chamber of Deputies. So whether people always contact each other after taking the negative tests, or if they don't hear that they're negative, which unfortunately led to people going into society in several cases and spreading it. And why it's not recorded how many people have been quarantined. I guess that was for the minister. I suppose he's probably waiting for us to close the debate again. When are we going to unify the systems that we talked about here that have to be rewritten in several cases? I have one more question. Social networks now live among the miners by getting information that if they have undergone a 14-day quarantine and do not actually have symptoms of disease for four days at the moment, they can actually go back to work without having to perform the test, which I'm not quite sure is the right information. So if there's any way we can straighten this out, let's see what we can do to answer them, 'cause they started bombing us like they did at this point. I am saying this now because I think that Mrs. Regional Hygiene has no priority right, so if we closed the debate, then she wouldn't be able to speak anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u180	Well, thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Because the ideal condition would be if we finally gave the floor to the Minister or Mrs Hygiene. Mrs. Hygiene wants to get out? Please, you have the floor. And with a factual remark, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek has also signed up for me here. So I'm gonna ask Mrs. Hygiene to wait a little longer. [[Messenger. Belobrádek prefers Mrs. Hygiene.]] No? He comes first, so the MP is a gentleman, he let you go. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u181	I thank the honourable Member for allowing me to speak. I will answer some of these questions, it would be better if my colleague Svrčinová answered because it is in her jurisdiction. I would reply to the last part that the Member referred to. We, as I was saying, are trying to connect the tools of the smart quarantine, especially the call system, and to improve the linking of diagnostic data, that is, the results from the labs that supply the labs with their actually lab systems. They bring the result into them, and over the interface, the results get into the basic system that we call ISIN, and it's called the Information System of Infectious Diseases. It's a basic registration system. Above it is actually built a system purely on record COVID-19 as special. That's where the result gets to. In fact, for the quality, and now I don't mean it wrong, for whether the result is positive or negative, the lab has to answer. Our hygiene takes over, if this guy's positive, he'll file it as a new case. That's where he gets this special number, and he puts it in the Daktela, in the call system, and he starts carrying out an epidemiological investigation with this guy. Therefore, he mainly asks him when he had the first symptoms, because it is essential. When he met someone at the time of the symptoms, at the time of the infection, and who he met, and evaluates the severity of the individual contacts as part of the interview. And those that are epidemiologically assessed as serious, so he'll take from them, from him, from the positive person, he'll actually pick up all the contacts, which at this point is a phone, and of course a name, a last name, so that others can get in touch with him. [[16.10 hours]] If this is relevant and the person is relatively so-called moving, then a memory map is created, which, on the next call, can lead the person to recall other contacts when he was moving somewhere outside of what he remembered at the moment. All of this is going to come out and call the individual contacts, and the same thing is actually going on, and the contacts of the others and the risk of this person are being evaluated again. So if it happens that the lab - and unfortunately it will happen, it may not be that many cases, but some have been mediated - that the result initially negative is positive, or, on the contrary, the positive is negative, which is almost a better case, but both are wrong, so it can happen, and I believe that everyone is really doing this to make sure that it doesn't happen - then, of course, we need to contact these people again and apologize to them either the lab or we do it for a poorly communicated result. We are currently working with the UHIS, who is the carrier of the database system, and we are linking the ISIN and data from it to the so-called COVID forms of application created by the Army of the Czech Republic within Smart Quarantine 1, where we can see how many laboratories are involved in the investigation, what capacity they have, how they are used every day, whether they are testing or testing. We see the activity of the sampling points. These are also registered, we see how they are gaining, what capacity they have, what is happening, and at the same time we see, they reflect there, and the results of how positive they are today and how much the lab is actually investigating and if it doesn't have overloaded capacity, and we can also intervene in the sense that they would transfer samples from one laboratory to another. It went very well within the emergency state, when the Army of the Czech Republic, and let it be a great thank you for it, it was this operational work that was done perfectly standardly with a relatively large team of people. At the Ministry of Health now, after the government approved our systemization on 25 May, an emergency operating center is being created for threats to public health. This is a workplace that is in the direct competence of the chief hygienist. It will be there in addition to the head of the department plus ten other sites, which should regularly monitor the situation not only in infectious diseases or factors of infectious diseases, but also other health threats, including environmental ones. We only have tender procedures, because we are in a state service regime and we must respect the law of service and select people according to selection procedures. So they're out. Today he joined the department, which I am directly in charge of, the first full-time person. So now we've strengthened one person. We agreed with the Army of the Czech Republic that they would lend us at least three people for the operational file, so that until we might be able to fill those seats with proper selection procedures, the army would help us through the summer period, based on the inter-resort agreement. We are improving the systems in terms of information, information transmission, and it is important for me that the transmission is improving and that colleagues on KHS, as I said this morning, do not need to enter some data into several systems. I want to point out here that regional sanitation stations are directly managed by the Ministry's organisations, but they have legal personality and each sanitation station has a completely different level of equipment by technical and electronic means. So we are trying to do this now with one project that has been going on for a long time - as director of the Regional Hygiene Station of the Central Bohemia Region we have also entered it - it will strengthen technical equipment, especially computers and hardware and software on the individual KHS. So the electronization is going on and we're trying to somehow run it from the center. But they're separate institutions, and that's a little different, because the degree of electronization of the public administration, even though they're not, not that they're not affected by electronics, that's not even possible in the public administration, so it's a little different. But most of those colleagues, despite the great strain for them -- most of those colleagues, actually, because women are in the sanitary service, you can finally see that we're here two out of the 15 and most of us women -- that's how much the systems did. With all sorts of mistakes and mistakes, but they're handling the systems and they've made great progress under a lot of pressure. I have to say, I'm taking my hat off in person. So we're really trying at the same time - we were actually using the time when there was a very positive occurrence, or the situation was very calm. About the job at the Ministry. Thank you for some of these suggestions. I appreciate everyone who sits or ever sits in the position of the chieftains, in the position of mayors, because without the cooperation under emergency conditions - the hygienist designs some things professionally, but someone else has to decide them. That is why emergency situations are advantageous when things are discussed on the security council of the county and the governor can decide. During small bearings, fires, there is no need to declare emergency states or danger states. Because, de facto, these are the situations that we deal with in the case of the covide and under media massage, but on the other hand, when the newspaper pays such attention to the fact that salmonella is at the children's camp, or that x of pensioners has viral intestinal diseases, to say it not exactly, and in the end, we don't pay too much attention to the flu, actually. And we have vaccinations and influenza vaccinations in this population are five to eight percent. So we're going to, as I mentioned, an amendment to the IZS type directive. We're planning this strategy proposal, but we need to align it with the opinion of the clinical group. And this has to do with the last question from the honourable Member that they are calling now, that the algorithm has changed. Yes, with effect from the eighth, i.e. from yesterday, those who have been positive may be quarantined for ten days and have no symptoms for the next four days, so they do not have to go to the test and the quarantine will end. That's the position that the clinical group and epidemiologists have taken. It's a change of algorithm. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u182	I thank Mrs. Chief Hygiene and Mr. Pavel Bělobrádek will speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u183	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, Mrs. Chief Hygiene, I would just like to follow up on this little shoot-out of colleagues who were here a moment ago, and I would like to ask the Minister if he would speak during the debate, so that what sometimes happens here does not happen, that the Minister will speak with the final word, and then there can be no other way of reacting to this than after the end of that point. So if that were possible and he got out right away so that there's still a way to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u184	That's exactly what we planned. With a technical, factual remark, Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u185	Thank you. As rapporteur, I have followed the ongoing debate very closely. I wrote down the questions that were falling, so in case all the questions were not answered, I will remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u186	Mr. Minister. Are you interested in speaking in the debate? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u187	Thank you very much. I just really want to make sure that they get answers to those social workers who are waiting for information about whether they will have to be tested only by rapid tests, or for the infection that has been passed, but if they actually get it with PCR tests in the Karvin region. So I just want to raise this as a question. And thank you for your answers to the rest to the Minister in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u188	Mr. Cernohorsky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u189	They're probably watching us. I should therefore ask whether it is up to Mrs Regional Hygiene, through Mr President, whether she has had the time. The lady had a positive test, then she went for the second time, she had a positive one, so since what time does it count as if ten days, or eventually she can come out of that quarantine because now they don't want to take her for the second or third time. So she doesn't give it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u190	Mrs. Chief Hygiene wants an answer. Basically, what's left of her? [[Laughter, room noise.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will ask the honourable Member if he would describe it to me in detail, and I would answer you in this way, because I did not quite hear how you put it there. Or I'll write it down if you write it down that we'll cut time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u192	That was a great idea. Well, thank you at this point and I'll ask the Minister. [[Noise in the hall, shouting from the benches.]] And I would ask the Members to calm down a bit. [[The answer from the O.R.]] There is only one Member for social democracy. [[There's two of them!]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u193	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madame Members, thank you for the debate. I actually listened very carefully and tried to write down all the fundamental topics. She's already answered something, I think, Mrs. Chief Hygiene. I'm sure I don't have a problem with the things that have been said here, and I'm sure they're relevant. Just when I was listening to it, it seemed to me with all due respect to some of my colleagues that they think we're coming into the office, we're looking at the wall for eight hours, and then we're coming back from work, so it looks like we're not doing anything at all, we're not dealing with a vaccine, we're not dealing with testing, etc., etc. It's really not like that. Believe that we all take this very carefully and actively every day, including now a weekend, etc. But I don't want to complain. You're right. That's right. It's our job. It's just that some of these comments make me feel like it's like we're really not doing anything, and that's definitely not true. It's not just about me, it's about the collegiates who are actually actively working on this within the sanitary service and the UHIS etc. So much for that. There were a lot of things here. As for OKD, I would again, and I have already said here, I think, that said one thing, that we have now tested all those who were there within those mines of the ČSM south, north, because Darkov is solved from the past, and we will test them again, those who were negative. This means those who have been positive, they are captured including their contacts and will be retested by all who have been negative in the first testing since 19. 7. through the collection teams of the Army of the Czech Republic including the remaining workers at the ČSA mine, or another mine, where no case has been confirmed yet. There's already been one test of 50 miners, everything's negative, but we're going to be testing another 200 that are currently working there, and of course they're surface workers. And it's clear that the mines will always have some people working there, because the mine can't work completely, I don't want to go into the details here, so that you lock the door like some company and you leave and it's empty. It is clear that there will always be some people who will have to serve the mine, but all of these will simply be tested, and from 19. 7. the testing will also be carried out by those who were negative, precisely because the disease could break out within some incubation period. So much for the plan as it's going to be tested. Otherwise, it was said here about the involvement of county sanitation stations, and who is supposed to do the tracking. We are agreed, and now I think it works very well, that, on the one hand, the local regional sanitation stations supported by other regional sanitation stations, which are from regions where they have virtually no incidence, that is, they have free personnel capacity and are able to help the Regional Hygiene Station of the Moravian-Silesian Region through the Daktela system, and at the same time we have once again involved medical doctors from the medical faculty, who have also been involved in work, so in this regard I think it works well now, and also staff work, which is undoubtedly very demanding, is ensured. When it comes to registering quarantine, it must be said that there are actually two types of quarantine, it has already been said here. First, if the employee's incompetent is issued, so that the employee's incompetent is placed in quarantine, then the employee's incompetent is issued by the practitioner, but then there are quarantines that are issued for others, especially those who are not employed or who do not have their physician, and that's where the county health department issues it, the numbers are mentioned here. We are counting these two sources, both the decision of the Regional Hygiene Station and the second issue of the eIncapacity within the Czech Social Security Administration system, which, as well as any working inability to control quarantine compliance, but, of course, we are working on it, working with the police too, so that the quarantines are simply respected, because this is the absolute key to preventing the disease from spreading, so that really people who have been placed in quarantine stay at home and do not go anywhere public. Here I think this has worked for a number of months, and there is no major problem with the issue of quarantine in this regard. About the systems that are being used, I think Mrs. Chief Hygiene spoke very well about this. Of course Smart Quarantine 2.0 isn't quite finished yet, we didn't even say it was. She's working on it. You know, we also gave the document that the House actually requested, where it is described, where there are some dates until 30. 9. First of all, when personnel strengthening should occur, a department will be created, or a department at the Ministry of Health, as Mrs. Chief Hygiene spoke about it. So, of course, at the Smart Quarantine 2.0, on the robust system, including the new eRouška 2.0 etc., we're still working on it, and now over the summer, we're taking the prime time to work it out so that we're ready mainly for the fall season, which will certainly be quite challenging. But otherwise, smart quarantine tools, Daktel's system, memory maps, etc., so those work now and are being used, and I think they're really accelerating the process, because it's not just about pencil and paper anymore, but it's really about digitizing the whole process. [[16.30 hours]] With regard to crisis legislation, Mrs Valachová has spoken here, so it is probably not necessary to repeat here that it is being worked on, that the parties will be invited, that has been said here. I think the lady had information directly from the Home Secretary. With regard to the Administration of State Material Reserves and Purchases, I think that was also heard here by Minister Havlíček, that is now in his Gesture not in the Gesture of the Ministry of Health. And the contracts are ongoing. So here I think the envelopes are already open for some of the first orders. And I believe that the Administration of State Material Reserves will provide sufficient supplies of protective equipment as requested by individual departments, including the Ministry of Health Department. As far as the vaccine is concerned, this was certainly an interesting mention. I have already said a little bit about this, I think, on the question of Mr Čižinský. Of course, we are very actively involved in this topic of vaccine against disease COVID-19. There are essentially two parallel paths at this point. One at an EU-wide level where a cooperation agreement will be signed, where states therefore express an interest in actually participating in the joint purchase of vaccines against COVID-19, when, of course, the vaccine will be available. The second way, let's say Germany is leading along with the other four countries, and I am in direct contact with the German Minister of Health. And it's just that if AstraZeneca, who actually works with this particular group, is able to develop the vaccine, they're going to buy it from her. I think it happened in the media too. And the development teams and the companies that are working on it are a whole series. The European Commission created the Steering Committee on the question of vaccine where the Czech Republic has its representative. Professor Roman Chlíbek is nominated there, a representative of the Czech Society for Vaccines, who is directly involved in the Steering Committee. That means we have direct information on the vaccine issue, about the development, so here I think we're very active, and certainly we'll be the ones who will benefit from it when the vaccine is available. Of course, the fact that there might be some risks, we'll see, that's the question, there are client reviews going on. And now it's hard to imagine what the risks are going to be. But we are prepared to prepare a strategy that we are already discussing. I think that, of course, we should be primarily focused on risk groups, once again, it means seniors, health professionals, polymorbid patients, who are most at risk, because it is clear that the volume of these vaccines, those doses, will undoubtedly be limited within the individual Member States. But we're actually very active in this, and we have firsthand information. These are, like, the most basic things that have been said here. If I've forgotten anything, maybe I can restock it. But really believe that we don't have our hands in our pockets, that we're working very actively on this. We want the Smart Quarantine 2.0 system to work as planned with the personnel boost, when we're preparing for the fall season of respiratory diseases in particular. We are preparing a testing strategy, which we have already partially submitted and will still be finished with our experts, so really the issue of disease COVID-19 definitely awaits us here in the coming months. I was talking about it at the beginning that we probably can't expect the virus to disappear in any way. The pandemic still hasn't peaked worldwide. If we look at the numbers, the number is still rising worldwide. And believe that we are really doing our utmost to be prepared. I believe we can handle the situation in Karvinska. And I would like to thank everyone in Karvinska for their patience and responsibility, because it is very important for us now to follow the measures, the antiepidemic measures, the wearing of drapes, the separation, the disinfection, the reduction of mass actions so that we can cope with the situation. I believe we can handle her together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u194	Well, thank you, too. The rapporteur, Mr Bartošek, is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u195	Thank you. Minister, as I promised, even if you tried, a number of questions really remained unanswered. Let me repeat what the Members have asked you. So let us begin with Mrs Richterová, through you, Mr President, whether PCR tests will be used in social facilities instead of rapid tests. Furthermore, whether the OKD agency workers will also be tested. Flat, all of them, including family members. I'm saying this because there's no answer. So I repeat the questions that have been raised in plenary. Next you talked about field testing after 19. 7. Why are you so late? Isn't it too luxurious to take ten days to test early? Isn't it because of the development of the covid? Furthermore, whether you support the stress tests for the resistance of the health system, as prepared here is the motion for a resolution. In fact, your answer that you believe in a sufficient supply of state material reserves was a very pleasant surprise to me that it is enough for you to believe that the state will be adequately secured. If you had at least said that from the position of the Ministry of Health you demanded such a volume of drapes for medical devices, such a volume of respirators, such a volume of protective equipment to the extent that it concerns finance, with a delivery to then and then and in case of more development you will be able to distribute within 24 hours, so that is the answer I would expect. There has not been an answer to how education will be dealt with. Whether if schools and students are to be shut down more often, whether or not you plan on staying at home with the government to resolve the question of distance teaching, whether or not it will be anchored in the law and whether or not you want to deal with it through some speedy discussion, because education should not be threatened. Furthermore, Mr Válek did not receive an answer on how and who organises mass sampling. Whether it's a county health department, the Department of Health, or it's a government officer. Who informs about the results of the samples? How fast and what system do you plan to inoculate these people? You're the one who described the system, so I don't wrong you, that in some way, you're planning a plan. There was also the question of why there is such a high error rate in diagnosis, or how high is the error rate, what do you want to do with it. On the question of why it takes so long to transfer data between individual organizations, I understand that it is basically the result of your eGovernment. This means state institutions are inadequately equipped with high-quality software, unable to communicate with each other. And here is a really big thank you and thanks to people who are putting in the data, putting the system into operation, despite the government, because they care about people's health. This means, this is the eGovernment of this government in practice, organizations that have old systems, unable or with great difficulty to communicate with each other. And then, if you're preparing something, it's good that you're doing it, but believe me, if you're preparing something without saying a deadline, it could be November, March or June next year. That means if you're working on something, it's important that you say what you're working on, what your deadline is, when you expect it to be fully put into operation. It is important not only for us, but above all for people to know how the government will operate, in what terms should there be some more massive development of the covidal disease. Thank you. Those are the questions I didn't get the answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u196	Well, thank you. The Minister has taken his word for it, so I will grant it to him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u197	Thank you for the floor. So I'll try to answer it again. I think I've already said some things. As far as OKD is concerned, I said that all employees, including the agencies, will be tested since 19. 7. because those who were negative in the first testing will be tested. And that first test went on last week. And if it's going to be worth something, then we have a 14-day incubation period, so really, in order for it to be worth something, there's got to be some time between the first test where they were negative and the retest that's going to be 19. 7. So in this respect, I think that the term is chosen appropriately, and also 13. 7. the government will decide again on the involvement of the army, so in this direction everything will be prepared as it should. [[16.40 hours]] Indeed, as regards rapid tests in social facilities, this was decided by a clinical group, experts. The truth is, these rapid tests are more like some kind of prevention, preventive testing. If there is any capture, then then of course the algorithm is set up that PCR testing is ongoing, or maybe. protesting within the facility. So it has worked this way for several months and we have not noticed that there is a major problem with this, and it has worked this way throughout the country, that the rapid tests have really been tested preventively, so it is nothing completely new. These rapid tests have been used for a number of months and we haven't really noticed a problem. I agree that these rapid tests are certainly not ideal, as standard it is necessary to test with PCR so that it is actually proven 100% that someone is infectious and could therefore go into quarantine, but for the preventive screening those rapid tests can be useful. That's what the expert group decided. Of course, I can revisit the subject to the clinical group for some assessment, whether it really continues to use rapid tests like this, I take it as an incentive for colleagues from the epidemiological clinical group. [[Big noise in the hall.]] As far as hospital stress tests are concerned, we have been monitoring all the capacity of our hospitals online for several months. We created the National Intensive Care Dispatch in the Czech Republic, i.e., we know exactly how many beds a patient is there, we know how many artificial pulmonary fans we have, we know how many ECMOs we have, out of body circulation, etc. So in this respect, we have a full overview of hospital capacities. And even at the time of, say, the biggest wave that was here, those capacities were far from being used, they were used perhaps at most somewhere in the middle, and I think there was a certain reserve in the sense of reprofiling some other beds, that's what we're talking about really about those intensive care beds. So we're working on it under the guidance of Professor Černý, chief of the Intensive Society of Professionals, and I think the capacity in this direction is sufficient. Stress tests - I can bring it back to the clinics, but I think that the burden that has been on hospitals in the biggest crisis in the last few months, in the largest number of hospitalized cases, was far from being filled in our hospitals, so the question is whether to do any more stress tests. I don't know. I don't think it's possible. As far as the Administration of State Material Reserves is concerned, I said that I believe, but of course I meant that the Administration of State Material Reserves must now compete with those volumes of funds that we requested from them as the Ministry of Health. They are really millions of pieces, tens of millions of pieces of respirators, drapes, protective suits, etc., all the protective equipment needed. We are based on the crisis consumption that was at the time of the biggest crisis, so the demands in this regard are quite clear. They are for the whole health care, let hospitals, so terrain, and now they really have to compete, and this is what happens. About education, that's more of a question for my colleague, Minister Plaga. I think he's already said somewhere that, of course, some form of distance teaching has worked well for the crisis situations. I'm not exactly an expert, so I'd hate to comment on that. It will certainly be our concern that we do not have to close schools across the board, at most within some specific regions, but with regard to the form of teaching and distance teaching, this is really a question for the Minister of Education. As far as mass sampling is concerned, these are, of course, organized by the regional hygiene station, which orders mass testing, just as it did in OKD, that is, the regional hygiene station will order the area testing at a specific place, in a particular enterprise and is therefore responsible in this direction, or that is how the system works. High diagnostic error rate. I don't quite know what that meant. I think the error rate is very small. There was more meant perhaps by the fact that there were some cases, really units of cases where a person received an incorrect SMS about the outcome of his test. That's regrettable, of course, but I think it's more of an error within the system and that it's certainly nothing that would be the rule that there would be some high error rate of diagnosis in PCR tests, which I don't think can be discussed at all. So in this respect, I don't think we're facing any high-level diagnostic errors in classic testing. And as for the term "smart quarantine," I said there that the Smart Quarantine 2.0, as we presented it to the honourable House on the basis of the resolution, the final deadline for complete implementation is by 30. 9. 2020 so that we are able to staffly ensure the strengthening of regional sanitation stations, the Emergency Management Department at the Ministry of Health, so that is the term that is specified in the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u198	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Mihola. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u199	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is difficult for the Minister of Health to speak for ten other colleagues here, and I think one of us would hardly prove it, but that is the problem of the government. It's not our problem. We have the right to ask. And my colleague Bartošek has asked questions here, and I can't be satisfied with the fact that we're going to find out here or that he's going to say: that's not what I'm an expert on, you know, some form was... Such terms, it seems completely scandalous to me in serious matters, in the field of education. If we let something happen somehow, somehow it will be, then it's completely reprehensible. Although the Minister of Education commended the teachers, I do not think the teachers praised the Minister of Education, I would rather not ask how they would grade it. And instead of having some standard on the table around online teaching from the ministry, which has the ensemble of people for it, we were not waiting for it, and as KDU-ČSL MPs, we have presented this standard here. It's already in the system because it's a pretty simple modification. The online teaching took place without any support in the law in primary schools. And that's not something fatal, something we should wave our hands at. So here we would really like to hear a clear statement about how we would be prepared if, God forbid, there was a problem again. We cannot afford to quote whether we have compulsory or optional school attendance, etc. So I believe that in the near future, the Minister of Health will encourage his colleagues to give us a clear position. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u200	Your time is up. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u201	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to join my previous speakers. And since it is truly regrettable that Minister Plaga is not here, this is not the first time, I understand that he has other duties, but that we hear here that the Minister of Health - and I do not blame that - I understand that this is not your resort, but that you do not know, and there is no one here to tell us that opinion, that is truly regrettable. Let me just remind you that by the end of August - the House of Deputies tasked it with a resolution - to provide all schools in the Czech Republic with a manual that schools should possibly deal with. This has been agreed here by the majority of the Chamber of Deputies, it has until 31 August, so I assume the Ministry of Education is already working on this and we will soon learn the result. So I'm saying, it's really sad that we're standing here the last week in the Chamber of Deputies before the holidays, and we don't know anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u202	Thank you, too. I'll ask if anyone else is still in the debate. Mrs Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u203	Thank you for your answers. I'd like to ask you a very brief question. The minister said that the national testing strategy plan was for work. That's what we said, unfortunately, so far it's just a rough skeleton. And since, according to the House's resolution, it should have been done by 30. 6. After all, I would like to ask specifically when, Minister, you expect the national testing plan to be complete. This includes action steps to make it clear. You said you were calling an army for testing to help make it more obvious when, in what situation the military would be deployed. That's one of my favors. And the other one's with the bathrooms. Once again, I consider it important that it was made clear here, the Minister said that the social facilities are tested for antibodies, or for the disease lost, for the rapid tests. So let's see if this is really something we wish for as company. I think that's really very much to consider. We need to protect these devices here and now, seniors in the facility. We need to know if the workers who go to them are infectious. So that is the conclusion to those answers and indeed the request for a time frame, when the complete testing plan will be completed, including those components, how to obtain the capacities that are needed. For colleagues who haven't read it, I'll stress, there are defined spinal labs, it's defined what a whole big network should look like to make it work to get to the necessary capacities. We say 30,000 a day, but there's no telling how we're going to get these capacities. Again, Minister, you said, you believe that today the capacities are between 15 and 20,000 tests a day, but the national plan does not imply that we really have prepared not only such capacity for analysis in laboratories, but also for collections. So I have this request to clarify the time when you're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u204	Thank you, and since I do not see anyone else enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. At this point, I am opening up a detailed debate and I will ask that those who have spoken their resolutions sign up for their resolutions. Mr. Marek Výborný. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u205	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I wanted to thank the Minister for answering at least part of the questions. It might still be good to answer what my colleague Richterová has asked at the end. I'm glad everyone's working. We didn't question that. And that everything's fine, which I don't think we're all here anymore. I would like to sign up for the four resolutions, so I guess I don't have to read them here again. I assume that the rapporteur will do so when they are put to the vote. The four that I have put forward here in the general debate, and I am asking that they be voted on separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u206	Thank you. Next is Mr Válek, then Mrs Golasowská and Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u207	Thank you. I have already defended and explained the motion for a point in the resolution. I will just repeat, believe and give consideration to the Chamber of Deputies to support this, that it would be good for us to have a government plan presented at some point in early November, if the vaccine is available, how we will inoculate which groups we will inoculate, how we will pay for it. Because if this concerns, say, a few million people, it will have to be very well planned and maybe some active cooperation from the Chamber of Deputies on the amendment of the law will also be needed. That is basically my resolution, he will read it exactly. Thank you, and I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u208	Thank you. Mrs. Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u209	Thank you for the floor. I am committed to my resolution, which I have commented in detail here in the general debate and which will then be read by the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u210	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Freedom. I will read the apologies: Mr Pavel Juříček apologizes today between 16 and 19 o'clock for working reasons and Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u211	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to the proposal put forward by my colleague Kupka, who has given him a very detailed statement and is handed over among the documents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u212	Thank you. No one else is going into the detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate and I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the voting procedure and to the various resolutions. The procedure will probably be simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u213	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you for the debate. I propose that we vote separately after each resolution and as it has been loaded. First, Mr Výborný, then Mr Válek, Mrs Golasowská and Mr Kupka respectively. Mr Svoboda last. In that order, separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u214	I have called the Members to the Chamber and we will vote on the procedure at this time, as proposed by the rapporteur, Bartošek. There's a check-out request, so I checked you all out, please log in with your cards. We're voting on approval of the procedure. I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 6, registered 139 Members and Members, 136, was against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u215	Thank you. The first motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to deal promptly with central purchases and potential distribution of medical material using the possibilities of the Administration of State Material Reserves, including legislative adjustments simplifying the purchase of State Material Reserves outside the crisis period."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u216	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 7, 143 Members and Members, for 67, were not opposed. The motion was denied. Mr Bojko votes with replacement card number 10 and please, Mr rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u217	Thank you. Second proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present without delay a draft amendment to the Constitutional Law on State Security, which will take into account the knowledge and experience of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and in accordance with the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 7. 5. began its consultation with representatives of all political parties in the Chamber of Deputies and with representatives of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u218	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 8, registered by 144 Members, for 67, against 4. The motion was denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u219	Thank you. The next proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic not later than 31. 7. 2020 presented a procedure for the organisational components of the state in the case of a second wave of pandemics based on applicable legislation and ensured sufficient capacity for sampling sites and testing laboratories to test COVID-19 at the level of up to 30,000 tests per day and a testing plan for potentially infected."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u220	I've started the vote, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 9, registered by 145 Members, for 68, against 2. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u221	Thank you. Another proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to provide citizens without delay with information on how to claim damages under the crisis law if they have been directly damaged by government measures at a time of crisis, thereby preventing possible confusion and litigation. We call on the Government, in accordance with the principles of good governance towards citizens who have been directly damaged by government measures, to take the following steps: (a) designate one authority to which the damage may be addressed; (b) prepare an online form to claim damages; and (c) prepare a methodology for the application of claims for damages.';
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u222	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 10. Registered 149 Members, for 71, versus 3. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u223	Thank you. Another proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to introduce it to 1. 11. 2020 plan for distribution, purchases and vaccination of population against COVID-19.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u224	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 11. Registered 149 Members, for 68, against 4. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u225	Another proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to quickly start dealing with the current situation in Karvinsko and to take such measures in particular in relation to the functioning of the smart quarantine, and therefore sufficient hygiene and testing capacities, so that the possibility of tracing positive individuals as quickly as possible is possible in order to avoid further uncontrolled spread of the disease."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u226	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 12. Registered 149 Members, for 69, against 13. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u227	And the last proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies requires the Ministry of Health to carry out stress tests on the health care system without delay in order to detect weaknesses and to verify whether they are ready for a possible second wave of COVID-19 pandemic and any future health crisis. Stress tests should be coordinated as far as possible with other European Union States to ensure cross-border cooperation and to establish common criteria.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u228	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 13. Registered 149 Members, for 68, against 15. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u229	Thank you. All the proposals tabled in the detailed debate have been voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-002-002.u230	I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'll read one apology. Mr Ondřej Veselý apologizes today from 5:30 p.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work. Now we're going to proceed to the next point and that's
