ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u1	285. Final report of the Investigation Commission on OKD /Household document 3516/ Mr. Lukáš Černohorský is in place. Pavla Golasowská, as rapporteur, will certainly take the position at the rapporteur's table. And we can continue the adjourned debate. I'm asking if Minister Zaorálek wants to continue. [[No.]] I can therefore consider your performance to be completed in the 13 hours and therefore continue with the speech of Mr Josef Hájek. aha, sorry, rapporteur, because the Minister spoke outside the debate with priority rights. So, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. Let me give you some basic information on this point as the rapporteur's committee of inquiry. The examination committee on OKD was established on the basis of resolution number 58 of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 12 December 2017, however, started its activities at the beginning of 2018. The deadline for submitting the final report has been extended several times in view of the scope and complexity of the case under investigation. The OKD investigation committee held 45 meeting days at 20 meetings, with negotiations going beyond normal parliamentary operation, often during holidays. The Commission's work was carried out by dividing the subject matter into three parts and each part was to be processed by a group of members whose conclusions were presented by the designated rapporteur. The first part concerned the initiation of the privatisation process and the loss of the majority of the state in OKD, the second part concerned the privatisation of the minority share of the state in OKD and the third part concerned the OKD path to insolvencys. The final report is thus based on intelligence reports and detailed analyses prepared by the commission of inquiry, which form the basis for the final report of the commission of inquiry. The final report is a joint and consensual work of all members of the commission of inquiry who worked in it from beginning to end and assisted by co-workers from the Police of the Czech Republic, external legal and economic experts and employees of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. The commission of inquiry has come up with findings that are set out in the final report, which I will not quote here, because I am sure everyone has met them. All findings are based on objective facts known to the Commission, in particular written evidence and witness interviews. The other fate of the case, of course, depends on other bodies, especially those involved in criminal proceedings. In the context of the final report, the commission of inquiry adopted the following final resolution: "Department Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on OKD I. Approves the final report of the commission of inquiry and its annex; II. Instructs the President of the Commission of Investigation to familiarise the Chamber of Deputies with the final report; III. Calls on the Government to proceed with the measures of the Commission of inquiry referred to in the final report; IV. Instructs the President of the Commission of Investigation, Lukáš Černohorský, to submit the complaint and criminal notification provided for in the final report and its Annex; at the same time, the Commission's secretariat instructs it to provide the competent authorities with the necessary background materials and other findings of the Commission; V. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic take note of the Commission's report; VI. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to ask the Government to take action in terms of measures taken by the committee of inquiry referred to in the final report." At the end of my report, I would like to thank the members of the Commission for their collegial cooperation, as well as the coworkers of the Commission of Investigation and the staff of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, who have often helped the Commission of Investigation beyond their work obligations. I would also like to thank the Head of the Chamber of Deputies' Office for creating appropriate conditions for the functioning of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all on my part to begin with, and the other details will certainly be complemented by colleagues in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u3	I thank the rapporteur, and we can therefore open a general debate in which we have four registered plus priority rights at the moment, with priority rights with the SPD's opinion Radek Rozvoral, which I am giving the floor to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to comment on the final report of the OKD Investigation Commission on the SPD movement. In 2019 we remembered 30 years since the Velvet Revolution, which brought us freedom. It must be said that freedom is not self - purpose, but it should bring justice to people. Unfortunately, if that is not the case, it is only an instrument where ruthless people abuse their power and steal. It is necessary to mention this fact in the context of today's discussion of the Commission's final report and the investigation of the OKD case. I will try very briefly to sum up what happened in OKD. The State effectively disposed of OKD in 2004 for 4.1 billion. Crowns. At the end of the whole process, the company got its hands on the registered company of Mr. Zdeněk Bakala in Cyprus. Interestingly, in 2006, she had already reported a profit of 3.5 billion. CZK 6 billion in 2007 and in 2008 10 billion. Crowns. For Mr. Zdeněk Bakala, it was undoubtedly, as the people say, a kauf. For a taxpayer who thinks of common sense, it is, however, a matter where the most appropriate and decent term is thieving. People who were responsible for state property at the time, and thus for state property in OKD, acted either as complete dilettants or as part of this robbery. Why could this thing even have happened? First of all, because politicians and officials who were supposed to protect the interests of the state were not afraid that someone would ever enforce property and criminal responsibility after them. And secondly, that the freedom that came in 1989 was freedom especially for the villains who robbed this state and its citizens. These villains took advantage of the opportunity the system gave them. [[18.10 hours]] I was talking about the profits of the company and we must not forget the specific people who benefited from the company out of state hands in the order of millions of crowns. Today, criminal charges are being filed again in this case. We were one of those who initiated this commission. It is, of course, a fundamental question of whether at the end of the story there will be punishment for the guilty and whether those who stole will end up in prison and return the stolen property, the profits they had from the stolen property. If that does not happen, it is clear that 1989 brought freedom that is not meant to serve people, but only the chosen elite, who can steal from what people have created. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u5	I thank Mr Rozehnal and we continue the debate with the speech of Mr Josef Hájek. [[♪ He's messed up ♪]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Vice Prime Minister, colleagues, on 15 September 2004, the Government of the Czech Republic, following the leadership of Prime Minister Stanislav Gross, adopted Resolution 904, in which it agreed to sell 45,8% of the State's shares to OKD. The then finance minister Sobotka certainly did not realize at that time that his decision to sell the minority stake of the state to OKD would negatively affect the lives of nearly 100,000 people in the Moravian-Silesian region and become a hot political theme until today. Why this is so, I think every citizen of the Czech Republic knows. In any other privatisation of the state's assets, there was no such huge loss of state property as occurred in the case of mining flats from the point of view of the ordinary citizen. We can juggle here with laws, with paragraphs, good faith or I don't know what else, but no one who uses common sense can say in this case what happened to mining flats or, respectively, use other names than that it was a thief of the highest order. How else do you call a store in which 46,000 flats are valued at CZK 40,000 per apartment only for a promise to sell this price to the tenants? Then you will not keep that promise and you have a guaranteed 40-fold profit. You're going to invest 800 million crowns and you're going to get 32 billion. That's a really great deal. What if these apartments were to be in the hands of the miners and their families? It doesn't matter! [[raised voice]] The important thing is that a great deal has been made, which apparently was the last time American colonists in the 17th century, who bought land from Indians for a little bit. In Wikipedia, these trades are justified by the fact that the Indians were not used to European understanding of ownership and were not fully aware of the impact of the transactions carried out. Unfortunately, in the case of privatization of OKD, some of our politicians, who apparently were not used to hard business, behaved also as Indians. They did not realise the impact of the contractual arrangements for the sale. From my point of view, it was one small part of the politicians. I think the bigger one knew pretty well what and why she was doing. This assessment concerns not only politicians but a number of officials. Our committee of inquiry to privatise OKD was established almost 15 years after the end of this privatisation. The ČSSD was logically not interested in opening this problem at the time when Mr Sobotka was in its leading or leading positions. This concerned both the ODS and the TOP 09, where Mr. Bakala bought loyalty. I can remember donations of 30 million in 2010, when the ODS received 15 million, when TOP 09 received 7.5 million, Public Affairs 7.5 million. Until today, this money has not been returned by these parties. I think that proves it. It's a hint of what I said. Only this parliamentary term, in which most of the new political entities were acquired, was we able to finally vote on the formation of this commission. Of course, investigating acts that took place 15 to 30 years ago is very complicated and complicated. A number of acts and actions that accompanied the privatisation of OKD really took place 15 or 30 years ago, and so it is logical that some of the preselected witnesses failed to recall in detail the facts and things that happened many years ago. Other witnesses, whom the Commission rightly thought they knew the necessary information and facts from the privatization of OKD, could not remember intentionally. Other important witnesses, such as Mr Pokorný, refused to testify with regard to attorney's secrets, or simply did not show up for questioning. This was particularly the case with Mr Bakala, who refused to testify in writing. From my point of view, the rejection and the reasons he said are proof of his arrogance and cannot be called anything other than contempt for the Chamber of Deputies. His reasons for not participating, which he sent to the Commission on 2 August 2018, are completely irrelevant and misleading. Mr Bakala refused to testify to the justification that in the Czech Republic he believes only the power of the court and that he fears political abuse of his testimony. In this context, I consider it necessary to mention that there was a significant majority of the opposition in the Commission of Investigation. Government parties had only two members in this nine-member committee. If you also include a member of the KSČM party, which tolerates the current government, we are talking about three members of the commission. The remaining six members represented, as I mentioned, the opposition. The fact that the Chamber of Deputies decided to create a committee of inquiry in which all political groups had equal representation, regardless of the size of the members' clubs, clearly indicates that the Chamber of Deputies had ordered the commission of inquiry to work not on the basis of a political assignment, but on the basis of facts and facts found. I would also like to emphasise and recall that all the meetings of the Commission were not public and that all the members of the Commission respected this decision. Following these facts, I believe that Mr Bakala, by calling into question the legitimacy of the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions, has therefore challenged the basic democratic principles of our state. I would very much like to know if Mr Bakala would treat the Swiss Parliament equally arrogantly and contemptuously. I don't think so. For this reason, I am giving advance notice that I will propose to the Chamber of Deputies a resolution in which I will propose that we comment on the lack of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Bakala. Dear colleagues, I have dealt with the issue of privatization of OKD for the second term. I worked in OKD for 36 years, so logically I cannot accept how this company and its workers have been treated. The investigating committee was tasked to find out who was responsible for the political, moral and, where appropriate, criminal responsibility for privatisation and subsequent decline of the OKD. I think we've managed to analyze these processes quite in detail and describe them. As part of our work, we returned to the early 1990s or the new millennium. In this return to the past, I realized in retrospect how my generation and generation of my parents were inexperienced and naive after the Velvet Revolution. After the Velvet Revolution, the vast majority of companies agreed that the transformation of the socialist state economy into a market economy is necessary. One of the instruments of this change was the privatisation of state property. Citizens were aware that these changes would not be easy, but they did not assume that privatisation would in many cases turn into tunneling of banks, companies and businesses. The sad chapter of this transformation of state ownership was also the tunneling of many companies privatized in coupon privatisation through investment funds. As part of this tunneling, tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of citizens, were robbed who succumbed to massive advertising to insert coupon books into investment funds. But I do not want to talk about this form of privatisation today and I will stick to the subject, that is, the OKD Committee of Investigation. In the investigation committee, I was in charge of processing the analysis of the sale of 45,8 percent of the state's share of OKD shares, which took place in 2003 and 2004 during the period of the reign of ČSSD Prime Minister Špidla and Gross, Minister of Finance Bohuslav Sobotka and Minister of Industry and Trade Milan Urban. [[18.20 hours]] The political decision of the Government of Vladimír Špidla on the sale of OKD shares was adopted on 23 April 2003. This decision was subsequently implemented in particular by Bohuslav Sobotka. On the basis of the information found, it can be clearly stated that the State did not exercise sufficient diligence and due diligence in this sale. The decision to open the exclusive negotiations on the sale of shares with the majority shareholder of OKD, KARBON INVEST, was already flawed. This decision, which was justified by an effort to ensure the stability of OKD and maintain employment, was perhaps well intended, but was based on a naive and completely wrong prediction of the future development and behaviour of the owners of KARBON INVEST. In my view, the wrong decision of the government to privatise OKD shares by addressing a single partner has made it impossible to verify the market value of the sold package with at least indicative offers. There was nothing to prevent such a course of action. On the contrary, this is a procedure which is also desirable in terms of assessing possible public aid. The analysis of the time sequence of the various steps on the part of the government shows that the State has not demonstrated any real effort to establish the market value of the OKD shares that it has decided to sell. The National Property Fund has incredibly neglected to formulate the award for an expert assessment of the value of the shares of OKD. The reports were clearly processed in a time crisis, carelessly and apparently with the intention to arrive at the lowest possible price of the shares sold. Mr Sobotka's priority was not to obtain an objective and competent view of the value of the package sold, but to create purely the basis for simulating negotiations with professional care. Minister of Finance Sobotka wanted to sell the minority stake of the state in OKD as quickly as possible and at virtually any cost. The only explainable reason was Sobotkův's efforts to make this sale before the Czech Republic joined the European Union. This Sobotkův effort was ultimately thwarted by the Office for the Protection of Competition, which, by its decision of 30 April, did not allow an exemption from the ban on public aid. Unfortunately, the incredibly lax approach of the state and its officials enabled the acquirers not only to enrich themselves with billions of assets down and subsidiaries, but especially by tens of thousands of flats and 4,700 hectares of land! I repeat, 4700 hectares of land! That's another tens of billions these days. Our commission of inquiry had the opportunity to get to know the details of how the OKD stock purchase contract was prepared, which was guaranteed by Sobotka Finance Minister. In the original version of the contract it was imposed on the buyer to define the housing units and these housing units, if the tenant is a natural person, to offer the transfer of the apartment. Such a provision clearly guaranteed that the miners would get their apartments. It is absolutely incomprehensible and inexcusable that Sobotka had KARBON INVEST's lawyer remove this clear and unambiguous provision. Thus, the new text, as I have already said, was written by KARBON INVEST's lawyer, left out the buyer's obligation to set up housing units and thus the legitimate claims of the miners became very hard to enforce. Bakala sells apartments by house, not by apartment units. In the context of this Treaty, I consider it necessary to mention other incomprehensible facts which accompanied the creation of this Treaty. According to Government Order 1127... I scream too much. I'm sorry, I'm being reprimanded again. Mrs. Pekarová isn't here, good. Okay, I'm gonna keep my voice down. Thank you. According to Government Order 1127... When I get excited, I get as excited as I get. According to Government Resolution 1127 of 12 November 2003, the government agreed to exclusive negotiations with KARBON INVEST. In this Government resolution, it was clearly stated that this exclusivity was set for a limited period, namely until 12 February 2004. The Government's resolution also ordered the Minister of Finance to prepare a selection procedure in the event of the failure of this meeting. This government resolution was not respected by Minister Sobotka. The exclusive negotiations with KARBON INVEST continued after 12 February 2004 and were concluded on 15 September 2004 when the government agreed to sell the shares. It is also very striking and strange that the government, through its intelligence services, did not know that KARBON INVEST concluded a contract with Bakal's Charles Capital on the sale of shares in KARBON INVEST on 31 May 2004. How come the BIS didn't know? Or did the BIS know and deliberately kept this information a secret? In this context, it is very interesting that the then BIS worker Mr Procházka came to work with Bakal in 2005. Of course, the committee was interested in these major formations. Unfortunately, Mr Procházka exercised his right to remain silent with our committee because he was afraid of possible prosecution. The fact that the owners of KARBON INVEST at the time of negotiations with the State entered into a contract with Bakal's Charles Capital on the sale of shares in KARBON INVEST was a clear and fundamental breach of the State's sale contract. Point 5.3 of this Treaty states, inter alia, to quote: The Buyer continues to declare and the Fund guarantees that the Buyer is not aware of any other fund of undisclosed or undisclosed information, material, facts or circumstances which, if communicated to the Fund, would be able to influence the fund's decision to sell the shares sold. - The concealment of information that KARBON INVEST entered into a contract with Bakala during negotiations with the government is a clear violation of the contractual agreement and a clear and essential reason for withdrawal from this agreement. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. 5 prove to be inaccurate, false or misleading in any substantial way. [[Nesroz.]] - It's obvious and logical! So I'm asking why the subsequent government didn't respond? Why didn't she make use of the provisions of this point? That's clear and logical! And unfortunately, no one on the committee of inquiry has been able to answer these questions. These facts clearly confirm that both the owners of KARBON INVEST and Mr Bakala have acted fraudulently, and if our citizens are to believe in justice, they cannot be tolerated with impunity. The President of the ODS, Mr Fiala, recently stated that our citizens are no longer interested in the past associated with privatisation. I strongly disagree with his point of view. Unlike the professor, I seem to be meeting other citizens. Among the citizens of northern Moravia, I have no other opinion than that Bakala is a crook who robbed miners of 46,000 flats. Before bringing OKD into insolvency, he pulled tens of billions out of OKD. Not only did he invest this money in the region, but he did not invest it in the Czech Republic in addition to a few exceptions. The fact that OKD ended up in the hands of hoodlum Bakala caused not only huge economic but also moral damage in my region, the consequences of which we still feel today. According to the index of cities suitable for life processed by Deloitte, mining Orlová is at the last, 206th place. Karviná is 205th, i.e. in the second-to-last place. Although Bakala acted as a philanthropist, his patronage was completely calculated from my point of view. Bakalův's support for President Havel's activities was supposed to create the impression that he was a man of the same moral qualities as President Havel. The opposite was true. This is evidenced by the case of Mr Vejtasa, a pensioner from Prague who has fought bravely with Mr Bakala for many years in the case of the Václav Havel Library. Bakala bought the building number 108 on Loreto Square, in which Mr Vejtasa lives, and decided to set up the Václav Havel Library. After buying this facility, he forced 17 tenant families out of this house - all except Mr Vejtasa. He has not been intimidated and has been fighting for his rights for many years. Although it is a long-running course, his example shows that one can also fight an opponent who has power, money, and huge connections. It is a challenge for all of us who think that in the case of OKD apartments everything is lost. [[18.30 hours]] The investigation committee has detailed the whole process of privatization of OKD, as well as the reasons and causes that led to insolvency in our view. As part of this investigation, we have found a number of errors and actions which, in the opinion of the members of the Commission, have been taken in violation of the law. I am not saying that in all cases these were deliberate negotiations. I can document, for example, the example of Mr Dlouhý, who, in 1990 probably in good faith, put OKD apartments in OKD. However, the commission of inquiry has shown that this was contrary to the law in force at the time. No one is infallible and works without fault. But how is it possible that this error was not discovered until nearly 30 years later? Today, after 30 years, it will be very difficult and perhaps impossible to correct this error. Honest colleagues and colleagues. I'm coming to a conclusion. In the Annex to the Final Report of the Commission of Investigation, proposals are set out for the criminal notification of persons who the Commission of Investigation considers that their actions and actions were not in accordance with the laws in force at the time. In view of the fact that some of these steps have already been taken many years ago, it cannot be excluded that these acts are already being put to rest. However, we leave these decisions to law enforcement bodies. In general, my fellow miners and citizens of my region and priori do not desire that any of the proposed persons be sent, sent... into sweatpants... Now I'm a little lost here. My sweatpants. Well, the sweatpants kind of stopped me. However, if the Chamber of Deputies has managed to enforce the return of church property after more than 50 years, it should enforce the correction from my point of view of this enormous injustice that has been caused to mining families. I'm not naive. Bakala and his associates have excellent lawyers. But as they say, where is the will, there is the way. From my point of view, the chance to find justice lies in point 10.3 of the stock deal. This point, in brief, allows the State to withdraw from this Treaty if the European Commission proves that the sale of shares by the State of KARBON INVEST was based on unlawful aid. Although the previous two complaints against illegal State support were rejected by the European Commission, our Commission believes that this was because the Czech party did not provide the European Commission with objective, true and relevant information. The European Commission may repeal the decision already taken under Union legislation. That, in my opinion, is a real possibility and a way to enforce justice. I'm sure it's gonna be a long run, but if we throw the gun in the rye, we spit in the face of generations of our mining ancestors. Thank you for your attention. bůh bless!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u7	Thank you, Mr Josef Hájek. Before I give the floor to Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who wishes to exercise his right of priority, I state the apologies received from the hearing, namely Mr Jan Richter, on account of the work in the region from 18:00 to the end of the day, Margita Balaštíková for work reasons, Markéta Pekarová Adamová until the end of the day for personal reasons and Mr Martin Kupka for work reasons. Now with priority right Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted after the intercession, we are debating the point, but it does not seem to me that the majority of Members, even those who gave the proposal, really paid attention to that point. That is why I am making a motion to interrupt by 15 March 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u9	Thank you. Procedural design. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I am still stating the cancellation of Mr Marek Novák's apology, who is present. I'm gonna sing. We have a vote to launch in a moment if we have enough votes under the Rules of Procedure Act. I understand that some present in the hall are not interested in taking part in the vote, but I will still wait. Even at the checkout of some present in the hall, it does not fall below the legal limit. We can therefore vote on Mr Miroslav Kalousek's proposal to interrupt this point. I've started voting 173. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 173. Of the present 80 for 9, against 62. The motion was denied. We will therefore continue to discuss this point by speaking to Mr Miroslav Grebeníček. A colleague of Luzar will be prepared, then Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what was said here about the serious problems of the Ostrava-Carvin mines was at least interesting. Yes, it is not only about the responsibility of those who tunneled the mines, but also, or perhaps above all about the co-responsibility of those who decided who took the terrain to lose property and legal claims and rights. Yes, in 2014, some media reported that the government sold the state share of OKD in 2004 at 4 billion even though it was worth more than twice the price. Furthermore, the media said that despite the fact that this error could still be corrected, the Ministry of Finance did nothing and covered everything. Today, the young front published that after a month's search, new findings were made that aimed at the person of Bohuslav Sobotka. As we know, he did not claim much of his key responsibility. In doing so, he was not only Minister of Finance but also Chairman of the Presidium of the National Property Fund. Contrary to proven and substantiated facts, he argued that everything was okay in this tunnel privatisation and that the ridiculous privatisation price was supposedly the right price. Even after he submitted and signed a privatisation contract to the government without a tender, which was in fact a tunnel to the state's share of OKD assets, then Minister of Finance Bohuslav Sobotka could correct his gross failure. He could have averted the multi-billion-dollar damage caused by state property. But he refused to do it. It is clear from the information published that the European Commission raised a question to the Ministry of Finance as follows. I quote: "CARBON INVEST has made an offer to buy shares from minority shareholders, which indicated that the market value of OKD is equal to 22.5 billion. The value of the privatised state share could be 10 billion. CZK versus 4.1 billion. The koruna for which this share was sold." [[18.40 hours]] The question of the European Commission was: "How do you justify such a great difference between prices?" However, the Ministry of Finance, led by Bohuslav Sobotka, did not start to examine privatisation even after such a clear initiative, and did not even provide the necessary full information to Brussels. First of all, the fact that the State forgot to appreciate two dozen subsidiaries of OKD and other real estate when selling the mine and that it was because of these negligence omissions or criminal distortions of the actual extent of OKD assets that the privatisation price was so ridiculously low. What explanation does the later Prime Minister have for his then inaction and for the failure of the Ministry of Finance? It's laconic. "I did not process the tent for the European Commission at the Ministry. I don't know how it was handled." That's a scandalous statement! We are therefore to believe that the privatisation case, which was a real scandal from the very beginning, when the then finance minister Sobotka pushed the government and signed it, went again completely beyond it, when it was possible at least additionally, and even with the help of the European Commission to at least partially correct the tunnel and for the state to get lost funds at least in the order of billions. Ladies and gentlemen, according to former Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, he did not sign the position sent to the European Commission, but his deputy, Eduard Janota. And it is already known to bear witness to the degree of responsibility of Bohuslav Sobotka, whether the minister was merely a completely incompetent and uninformed person in a responsible place, or a person fully understood by what was happening. One thing is still undoubtedly. A false opinion on the doubts about the privatisation of OKD was sent to the European Union with the head of Master Bohuslav Sobotka. Yes, the later Prime Minister has always had and has a remarkably poor memory in some extremely serious cases for which he bears personal, functional and political responsibility. And every time it was about the fact that, as a responsible official of the state and constitutional officer, he should admit and bear responsibility for his own decisions and for the particularly serious decision of the office that he was managing, according to his own words allegedly did not know anything, he didn't control anything, and he didn't actually manage anything. They say the target crowns the work, says the Latin proverb. And privatization of OKD and housing fund led to the goal, i.e. into the hands of speculators around KARBON INVEST and party Zdeněk Bakala, the then Minister of Finance Bohuslav Sobotka. And not just that. He has repeatedly deceived citizens. He didn't act as much as he could and should have. After all, before the election that brought him into the prime minister's chair, he promised that the state would strongly advocate the interests of the victims. We all know the outcome. The Prime Minister, who had seriously compromised himself politically and failed professionally in privatizing the state's share of OKD, did not lift a finger to correct the misconduct of the wrong privatisation contract and privatisation. He didn't lift a finger so that OKD tenants could get their rights and what Sobotka's Finance Minister was supposed to keep an eye on in the privatisation agreement. The rendered share of OKD and OKD flats, which earn the dubious privatizers of their successors tens of billions, which have flowed from OKD and which have not been paid in the Czech Republic, is the result. Ladies and gentlemen, not so long ago, renowned director Jiří Menzel said: "Wherever you look, money is missing everywhere. Mostly on education and health. Where did the property that was supposed to belong to all of us? We know something about physics and the law on the preservation of matter. And we just have no idea where the black hole might be." He added: "We can't help but notice that a few individuals have become incredibly wealthy. We keep quiet about it as an awkward thing that doesn't remind us of in a decent society. We're just watching one affair go to the other, and every other scandal will allow the previous one to be forgotten quietly. If you start asking about the causes, about the beginnings of this mess, they'll shout you out. There's no need to look at the rear-view mirrors. There's no need to criminalize. Cho bolo, bolo." Remarkable words. And I have no feeling that it would have been a Donkichot campaign against windmills, so let me point out that 30 years ago it was not a transformation, but rather a distraction of Czech capital into foreign or speculative hands for high commissions and bribes to politicians. Following the appearance of Minister Zaorálek, I would like to remind myself that democracy is not the freedom of the chosen to rob the Republic and citizens, and that the current impunity of privatization thieves, corrupters and fraudsters is a clear denial of democracy. The investigation of these crimes is therefore a requirement of a fair and fully democratic nature. Of course, in November 1989 and in the years to come, many things were promised. The truth is that inexperience, stupidity, and often obvious thieving have prevailed, which should also be reflected in our resolution today. I do not know the only reason why I should not support such a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u11	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. Before I give the floor to Mr Leo Luzar and prepare Miroslav Kalousek, I will read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 18.45 until the end of the day, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises. Now, Mr Leo Luzar. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I will not exaggerate your patience because there has already been a lot of talk. And those who were interested in getting a little deeper into the case of OKD certainly read the report, and I think it is very apt and clearly speaks about what has been going on in the case of OKD all the time. [[18.50 hours]] One thing is, of course, worth remembering, and this is the fate of the OKD apartments, which stood at the beginning of why the OKD investigation committee was established. Let's face it, if it weren't for these flats and the enormous civil pressure of the tenants of these apartments, this privatisation might have ended in oblivion somewhere, like thousands of other similar activities in the Czech Republic. And when I mention the biggest ones, the Plzeň and the machine shops and other businesses that we have discussed here in the past and which today, with no greater interest, merely mean some number that the Czech Republic has lost. [[Nesroz.]] About the number relating to the finance of the Czech Republic, a number which, on the contrary, concerns the export of economic goods of the Czech Republic abroad as part of the change of the owner. Perhaps this scenario would also be expected by OKD, but it turns out that civil activity has forced the Chamber of Deputies to look at this thing after so many years, and I am very glad that the final report exists. It's written so that you fall for it. No one is favored there or backed up by examples. On the contrary, it is clear from the final report that the commission of inquiry was trying to find out the facts and reveal the drape, which was only slightly implied with the course of the years, or tried to create misinformation about this area. For me personally, as a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region residing in Ostrava, the incomprehensible betrayal of the two people who stood at the beginning is Mr Koláček and Mr Otava, who promised citizens, promised employees that they would be the guarantee that the OKD would work and it would be a world enterprise. And yet, by the time they promised, they worked hard on the business of the century with Mr. Bakala and sold OKD to him. That, of course, was cheated by the government. Let's face it, the government has been deceived, not just citizens, not just tenants. The investigation committee indicated the possibility that the introduction of OKD flats into the upcoming privatisation was not under the law. I'm expecting a clear opinion from the Justice Department, or law enforcement experts, to explain and tell us whether the commission is wrong or not. I've picked up statements in the public space mostly from the participants of the time and an assessment of the apartments that they're interfering with the commission, that they don't actually know what they're saying, that the apartments were supposed to be there, and that what we wrote in the report isn't true. We have other lawyers' opinions. That's why I expect an institutional representative of the state, the Ministry of Justice, to either appoint experts or create a group of lawyers to look into it. It is a certain precedent in the Czech Republic, we do not know how to deal with it, but it should still be clear whether the privatisation from the very beginning was wrong and was not wrong. It is a task that stands before the Justice Department, and I firmly believe that the Minister will deal with it. The second thing I want to draw attention to and which does not result from this report is a matter relating to the future of these apartments. Surely you have noticed that the original owner of OKD flats, meaning Round Hill Capital and Blackstone, sold its shares, that is to say Residomo, which manages these apartments, sold them. Heimstaden Bostad AB became the new owner, a large European developer renting apartments and a buying housing fund. The question is how far this business case will affect the future of the apartments. Anyway, we were assured that the guarantees that were from the privatisation project, that is, the inalienability of the housing fund, should apply. I don't know. I'm not convinced that's true. And I would also like to hear whether it is possible to count on what was written in the privatisation project, which means that these apartments are inalienable, and we still have some possibility of influencing who actually lives in those apartments. It's a question that's here, and we don't know the answer. We tried as a KSČM to give the state the opportunity to solve these problems. You know that we have long tried to take advantage of all the possibilities of the state to investigate these things and to open points in the House concerning privatisation and the crimes of privatization. It was our persuasion and our belief that these things had to be investigated, until that stage, that the House had adopted a resolution. This was adopted by the resolution on 6 June 2019, when it asked the Government to process and propose an effective amendment to criminal law so that such crimes caused by privatisation could be prosecuted and punished further, so as not to delay them, including an assessment of whether there was a situation in which the limitation period could not even run. On the basis of this resolution, which is valid, and this House has adopted it, the government should impose the task and examine these things here. The OKD report, which we are dealing with today, is currently appealing to the government in this spirit as well, and I firmly believe that even after frequent interventions from our party to the Prime Minister, the government will finally begin to act and the Prime Minister will impose this task on the Ministry of Justice to investigate and implement this resolution adopted by the House. We will constantly try to remind the Prime Minister that he has a debt to this House, that he does not comply with this resolution, and also in the light of the report of the OKD Committee of Investigation, which talks about these problems, when it was not possible to enforce the law in the Czech Republic, when it became clear that things were simply not addressed, whether for various reasons, and are described here, I will not discuss them, the right was circled, forgotten, or silenced under the impression of business uncertainty, or criminalisation of entrepreneurs. This is simply not something that this society deserves, and it is necessary that the power of power should approach this with all seriousness, not only the appeal that we have the laws, it should be done. Among other things, the report also shows that we have provided sufficient new relevant evidence for law enforcement authorities and, where appropriate, ongoing litigation still under way within the OKD to deal with this. Not all the documents were known, not all the documents were available. Now a new opportunity to look at these things opens up. I will propose a motion for a resolution if the House takes this vote to repeat and order the Government to comply with the resolution Chamber of Deputies number 653 concerning the request of the Government to deal with these cases. And in conclusion, let me do one thing for the future. The future of OKD and the future of my Moravian-Silesian region is linked to iron and coal. Coal is forgotten, it is said that it is a commodity that no longer exists, in contrast with the fact that it opens a new mine in Poland and hopes that the coal it will produce will be applied on the world market, perhaps even in our country if it does not benefit from us. The company OKD, the living part, the effective part that produces profit, is managed by the state through the company PRISKO in the gesture of the Ministry of Finance. I will be very happy to hear from this organization, or directly from the government, from the Prime Minister that the future of Ostrava, the city that is inherently connected with iron and coal, will also be needed in 2035. I will be very happy to hear it, because, of course, even the industry that is there must be prepared for the change and restructuring. And it can't be done day-to-day, there's no other way to do it than to give these businesses and their employees time and time to prepare for these changes. And we can't just follow the economic results of the current profit, but we can count on the outlook and the future, as the OKD report also says, when a company that didn't work like this and didn't plan for the future led to failure. Thank you for your attention and I firmly believe that this OKD report will open our eyes to all and all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u13	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not applied with priority rights because I do not speak on behalf of the TOP 09 MEP, I am acting exclusively with my own position. If you looked at the voting list when we were discussing the establishment of this commission, you would find that I was the only Member who voted against. The others were in favour or delayed. I voted against because I was and to this day I am convinced that the circumstances for which The Chamber of Deputies is setting up a committee of inquiry. The Chamber of Deputies establishes a committee of inquiry in the public interest at a time when it has reason to believe that the standard institutions in charge of the investigation may be under political influence or have some reason not to act as standard, and then the Chamber of Deputies enters to exercise its audit role as an institution called the commission of inquiry. I did not think and do not think to this day, and this does not imply from the report that it would be possible that the law enforcement authorities either in the preparatory proceedings or in the criminal proceedings, or then in the courts that they did not make an objective decision. I feel that this investigation has been conducted in a standard way, and if we trust our institutions, we have no reason to set up an investigation committee. That was my opinion to this day, and I'm trying to remind you of it. Of course, I respect that this was a significantly minority opinion. The Chamber of Deputies set up a committee of inquiry, and I was afraid that much more than a real examination would lead to the purpose of defamation of some people, and unfortunately the result has not only fulfilled my expectations but even exceeded them. A few comments on the factual part where there are conclusions and wordings that I cannot agree with and for which I could not raise my hand, whether it is the reasoning that the State had no right to insert flats into the stock company OKD. Well, those who were somehow forced to deal with the case - I did, because I was the Minister of Finance between 2006 and 2009 and then 2010 to 2012 and I conducted a number of meetings and litigation with RPG - we know that the state did not place any real estate into the company. They weren't inserted there. There they were inserted as real estate houses with rental apartments. It looks like word-telling, but it's not word-telling, it's a completely different chapter in legal terms, and in no way can Section 14 of Law 52/1966 apply to it. I am absolutely sure of that, and I have this opinion from a number of experts many times. koneckonců all, he was even divorced by Vice-President Zaorálek, who pointed out to the next paragraphs of Section 14 that these flats would have to be designated by the government by their regulation, which she never did. There are a number of such misguided factual and economic conclusions in this report, but please, I would not be wrong with them, it is simply some opinion of those who have been elected by the Chamber of Deputies to write their opinions there, and, after all, the institutions that are supposed to deal with the report, then they will deal with those opinions. The reason I'm not able to sign up for this report in any way is because of the attachment. There are 15 to 20 names on the 22 pages of the investigation committee. It is very consistent, from federal ministers to the second-to-last Prime Minister of Sobotka, even on the last pages it expresses its opinion on the criminal liability of the KPMG audit firm. You know, if the committee had written instead of this annex that it believed that it was instigating law enforcement authorities to study the report and determine possible criminal liability to individual persons, without making these persons so clearly listed, I didn't even get off at this point. I'd just take it under advisement, and I'd say, well, it's gonna be two years at the D.A.'s office, then it's gonna turn out the way it was when they were always saving it, and I'd think this thing was closed. But on those 22 pages, the names are consistently listed, regardless of the fact that many of these people have gone through the pre-trial process, they have been investigated by law enforcement authorities, the law enforcement authorities have put it off and not press charges. Regardless of the fact that some of them were accused and freed by the court. Regardless of the fact that there have been - and the commission must know - a number of things from the early 1990s limitation period. I just can't shake the impression that this was the main task, that was the main assignment of the critical members of the committee of inquiry, to issue a list of potential criminals. Whatever happens, we're telling you guys that these are the ones who are responsible. It's the criminals. They did it here. And that it is not the purpose of actually achieving an objective examination and justice, but the purpose is to pillage, on the one hand, the complex transformation process from the early 1990s, when the centrally planned economy was transformed into a market economy, and, on the other, to pillage specific persons. But please, all those people, all those living people that are listed there, at least they can defend themselves. But how am I supposed to respond to a sentence that lists potential criminals nailing them to the door in an open text, writes other people whose names occurred in the investigation of possible criminality, namely Martin Brož, Petr Otava, Zdeněk Hrubý, are already dead. How could you write this? Haven't you guys been shy for a while? You really don't realize the consequences? You don't know that the dead can't defend themselves and that they can't cleanse themselves? And that Zdeněk Hrubý - one of our greatest climbers, who lived 57 years of good life, the person who was awarded for saving human lives in the mountains, the person who served the Czech Republic as Deputy Minister of Finance, in the bodies of the European Investment Bank, the person who collaborated with universities in Oxford and Cambridge and who, after returning from Himalayas, was to enter as a visiting professor at the national University of Australia, could no longer start there because he died - that your spit will always be on his resume? Because all those who are alive can make press conferences, argue, defend themselves, after all, they may passively expect the law enforcement authorities to do what I assume they will do, simply investigate what you have given them, find out that there are no relevant arguments for this, and postpone the cases and all the living will be cleansed. Not the dead. There's no way to initiate a pre-trial procedure against the dead. You have forever spit on the short-term political points of Mr Černohorský and others. That's just eclephant, co-workers and co-workers! If everything else in that report was such that I could agree with it as it isn't, then this one sentence prevents me from doing anything to identify with it, or perhaps to express it, or perhaps to do anything that would seem to support it. I'm very much in retrospect, and I'm aware that I'm about to be a minority, but I'm strongly opposed to the style that this committee has been working on. I am strongly opposed to the style she spit on a blameless person who can't defend himself because he's been dead for seven years! And if I hadn't turned against it, if I hadn't voted against it, I would've felt a little bit like a pussy and a little bit like a pig! And I really don't intend to, which is why I took the liberty of telling you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u15	That was Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Before I give the floor to Mr Lubomír Volný, I have two factual points, namely Josef Hájek and Pavel Blažek. Now, Mr Josef Hájek, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u16	Mr President, colleagues, Mr Kalousek through Mr President, did the TOP 09 not have its representative on this committee of inquiry? Did she or didn't she? I believe Mr. Dominik Feri was the nominee for the TOP 09. How come it's signed under this report? Meaning, you're gonna propose to exclude him from your club? Because as I listened to your words, all the members of the committee behaved shamefully, unethically, and I don't know what adjective I'm going to add to that. Two. I've said it here before. Why did it take 15 years? After all, all the citizens in my region knew that privatization had been done improperly. You're talking about apartments, houses... Why, then, were apartments valued in these estimates and not houses? So here's a number of unsubs. During the privatisation, we found that for the first time in the history of the Czech Republic, the court was transferred from Ostrava to Hradec Králové. Wasn't there some kind of influence? How is it that after an illegitimate decision of the court, the District Attorney Suchý from Prague cut it? For the first time in history... How come the Attorney General didn't appeal when it was clear, I don't want to make it clear, but there was some information that spoke about which testified that tunneling was taking place? So I don't think the investigation committee was set up in accordance with competence. The arguments were clear. And please tell me what you're going to do with Mr. Dominik Feri, who you think has also acted very unethically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Pavel Blažek's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u18	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. So, first of all, I want to thank my colleague Kalousek for not being afraid to go upstream. And I'm going to join him for some other reason. Why upstream? It's always so popular to make a list of people who are responsible for something. And, of course, both a large part of the media and unfortunately our nation are happy when they may be arrested again. My reasons for not supporting this report are two more. The first is that it used to be customary, and after all, even in the Rules of Procedure Act, it is written that the Commission is presenting a report to the House to be approved. The fact that the committee of inquiry filed - that is no legal entity, nothing - any criminal complaint before it bothered to present it to us only confirms to me that it was nothing more than a kind of exhibition, but with some knowledge, and so said colleague Hájek here, now no offense, and it was also said in the report that a lot of things may have been suspended. And that's the other reason I'm not voting for it. I'm originally a lawyer. And for the first time in my life, I feel sorry for the law enforcement authorities, because when they get it, and they've already got it, this message, it's clear to them that they can't investigate anything after all these years anyway. But since it's from the Members, from the Chamber of Deputies, they're going to have to figure out how to write that it's impossible to get rid of the case after all these years. And now, instead of dealing with real crime, which they can intervene and act against today, it is clear to the little child that after so many years it is not this case, and we are burdening the law enforcement authorities with unnecessaryities rather than letting them do what they really can and what their really social role is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u20	Mr Hájek asked me a question. I'd be happy to answer that. If he were here to start my performance, he would hear that I am not acting with priority rights, because I am not speaking with the opinion of the MP, but exclusively with my opinion. For your information, I gave it to my colleague, Ferim, privately. And if I were the only one out of two hundred, I would speak with that opinion, because I am convinced that it must be said. I do not defend a number of stages of privatization of OKD. I'm not defending Zdeněk Bakala breaking his word. I find that shameful. I defend the right of the deceased who cannot defend themselves from being dirty. You're not kidding, Mr. Hájek, that this report purposefully extorts people who are clearly found innocent. [[Very emotional:]] But she purposefully beats those who can't defend themselves! And if I didn't say it from this place, I'd feel like a pussy! Because only cowards dig into the deceased who can't defend themselves! You do realize that this man had children and that they also have grandchildren and that these grandchildren, based on your activities, will need to be told at school: Grandpa would probably have locked you up if he hadn't died in Himalayas, the Chamber of Deputies agreed on it, Mr Hájek said so. Go somewhere to be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Lubomír Volný, so far the last one entered into the debate. Before I give him the floor, I state my apologies: Vojtěch Munzar to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Jana Krutáková also from 19 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Skopeček from 19 o'clock to the end of the day and Mr Jakub Janda from 19 o'clock to the end of the day. Mr Lubomír Volný now. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I want to mention only three points. I would like to thank the members of the Commission for in the absolute majority of cases the correct and non-conflict course of the investigation and the President for the professional and supra-party leadership during our meetings. I would also like to thank all those who have humanly provided the running of our commission, whether from the staff of the Chamber of Deputies or the Police of the Czech Republic, and invited experts. The second point concerns the only thing that disappoints me during the investigation, and that is the powerlessness of Parliament's committee of inquiry to the people to be investigated, and thanks to stolen money, they can be dared to ridicule them, as well as the crook Bakala. The last point at the end of my performance is a little warning. In this building, right here in this building was stolen from us in broad daylight OKD and caused apparently up to a hundred billion-dollar damage. In this building we were probably robbed by up to one trillion crowns to support the solar mob. I would very much like our lithium not to be stolen from us in this building and it may not be established here one day as effective, professional, but in the finals the toothless investigation committee in the lithium case, which will describe everything exactly again, but the evil will not come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u23	I thank Mr Lubomír the Volný. That was the last one entered into the debate. But a colleague of the Black Černohorský reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to try to sum up some of the complaints that fell here. I'd start with Minister Zaorálek first. It was mentioned here that we gave people hope. But the report doesn't say they can buy the apartments anywhere, and God forbid they could buy them for 40,000 crowns. On the contrary, we are saying right there in several places that, given that it is already a number of companies, there is no longer a privatization commitment, which I would say is the other way around. We're here accused of referring to the 1964 law. But it was actually valid all the time even when the housing fund was being deposited into OKD. Minister Zaorálek said here that by being liberated by an expert, it was basically proven that the price was market. But that was never the case. On the contrary, by abolishing the Government's decision in March, the competition authority so clearly refuted that the price was not market, and even the 4.1 billion cannot be described as market price. The crown, for one simple reason. You can set the amount and say that it is market only if you have some competition in which you have more candidates or expert opinion, or more expert opinions that are well carried out. The court ruled on it or stated that the expert did not intentionally commit a criminal offence to make a false expert opinion. However, this does not mean that it could not have been his negligence, since he pointed out several times that for time reasons it would not be possible to appreciate a large part of the company. That means neither the assessment nor the price of 4.1 billion. The koruna doesn't have to be market. [[19.20 hours]] Minister Zaorálek also said there was no higher offer. Well, she wasn't because there was no competition. Because if we look at the gradual development of that price, it originally started at some 0.6 billion. CZK and gradually grew up to 4.1 billion. CZK, so it was because Penta always made a higher and higher offer whenever it was announced to the media that KARBON INVEST had offered some amount, so they automatically settled it and increased it by some amount. The final offer to the government in September was 4 billion. and 1 mil. Crowns. And it was not based on any expert opinion, but on the fact that Penta offered 4 billion. Crowns. And that million was only there so that the price would be higher. I would add that, even when I mentioned J&T here, it offered 9 billion in January 2005. CZK, but what was not known at the time was that at the time when Zdeněk Bakala negotiated with the owners of KARBON INVEST, he did not have the funds to do so and therefore turned to J&T, which would not provide him with funds just like that. That means he had to prove to her on what financial data he would have been able to return the funds. And their agreement was that they had about 20% stake in KARBON INVEST and would therefore help Mr Bakal to finance it. So the fact that J&T has offered this amount in the future just means that if the competition had opened up, it would have been significantly harder for the existing owners to receive these funds, or a significantly higher price could have been achieved. He even said that Mr Mládek, then he was only a Member, was not a Minister, and was invited there as an economic expert. At the government meeting, he said the government had several options. One, sell KARBON INVEST for the amount they've set them up. The second option was not to sell and be a significantly harder minority shareholder. And the third option is essentially to sell to anyone in a public tender, let the stronger one win. Because, either way, OKD will remain a problem for the state in the future and will not get rid of the need to invest in bailouts, reclamations and other things. The Government's decision, even though it is political, and the Minister of Finance has told me this several times in the context of the interventions, must be effective and economical. This means that if I make a decision, I still have to spend money effectively. We've already tried this on the road signs and other things. Either way, you always have to act like you can't spend money. And on the contrary, even if you're selling something, you have to try to get the highest price, and not the opposite, even if it's your political opinion, so push it down. Minister Zaorálek said here that the criminal charges, which are as if in the final report, are general. At least I never claimed that these are the final criminal texts, as we hand them over to the Police of the Czech Republic. Because it would be illogical for us to do everything, i.e. all the documents we have were described in detail here in the Chamber of Deputies and, on the contrary, we would make it very difficult for the prosecutor and the Police of the Czech Republic to do so. I think maybe you can ask prosecutors how happy they are when you file a criminal report and everything you've learned, and everything you know, in fact, the person then says to the media. Now I would like to pause for what President Kalousek said, who disappeared somewhere for me - yes there is, sorry - I just mentioned that the people who had died were very often in the eyes of the superman witnesses who, despite the fact that they could not decide the matter, still we were often told that they were the ones who did this. For example, you named Mr. Brož here. He was in the position of a standard reporter, and yet, according to many witnesses, he was the one who actually ran the whole place. So, on the contrary, we had to mention this option, so that the police would know what was in store for it. Because most of these witnesses will be making excuses for those people who were even in a position that was far lower than they were. It's not their fault. We discussed the alternative, whether it was still, and that, I think, was what Mr Blažek, through Mr President, said about the limitation period. This, too, is what we have just addressed, whether to file criminal charges on matters where we suspect that there has already been a statute of limitations. But, as you said yourself here, in some cases, actions have already been initiated, and I think President Kalousek may have also said that in some cases the acts of law enforcement authorities have been initiated, and then maybe they have been interrupted, so in some cases the deadlines could have been cut or shifted in some way. But if you have looked into, and this is what Mr Volný mentioned here again, the powers of the committee of inquiry are not quite great and we do not have access to the police database to check whether all these cases or whether or not the criminal charges have already been suspended. This will really have to be decided by law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u25	Thank you, Mr Cernohorska. Because no one is reporting for the debate - Mr Kalousek and Minister Zaorálek are reporting for the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u26	Thank you. I don't want to drag it out too much. I think we've all said our thing, and then we'll vote. But one more time, Mr. Chairman. The Commission consistently reiterates that the State has invested OKD flats in the joint-stock company. You're writing it down in the report. That's not true! There were no apartments, there were houses with rental apartments! It's just, like, it's not a word-talk. It's just a different legal category, a different process, and it's a different assessment. That's not a word-talk. The doctor's suspiciously looking at me. So it's probably the same thing as saying we put sausages somewhere -- but we didn't put sausages in there, we only put the pig's butts in there, which then the sausages will be made of. It's just not the same! The report says the apartments have been inserted. I'm telling you, they weren't, and that every expert will confirm it when they just judge it at your request. But that's not the point. The point is, the Prime Minister here was trying to defend why the dead are being put out there. That the police would deal with this. [[Very emotional.]] But police protocols are classified. This message is public! And just in the report, in the annex, you nailed 15 live ones to the door, one unknown, and three dead. And you've announced to the world, we think these are potential criminals! The fifteen living will be cleansed because they will not be charged. The unsub, no one's gonna find out, and he's gonna stay the unsub. But those three don't have a chance to clean themselves up! Again, I wouldn't have gotten on this report at all, and I would have just taken note of it if you had the decency of human beings to write in that report that you were handing it over to the D.A. to assess the possible criminal liability of individual persons without adding the phone book that you had the courage to put the deceased in. And I consider it shameful, and I do not think it possible for a decent man to raise his hand!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u27	Good evening, everyone, and we will continue the debate. Mr Luzar is here with a point of fact, but before I give him a microphone seat, I will introduce the House with a note. We are sorry by President Rakušan from the rest of today's meeting and we are sorry by Mrs Valachová from 19.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Luzar, then Mr Michálek, then Mr Michálek, with priority rights -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u28	Thank you, I'll be very short. Through you to my colleague Kalousek. He keeps repeating houses. There were 45,000 housing units in the houses, but nowhere is it said that it was just about home. There were also transferred apartment units and family houses in different states and historically different, which were managed by the company OKD. We are not talking about the whole itself, but about the individualities, so there were also apartments, there were also family houses, there were double houses, there were also apartment houses, or property that was transferred, it can also be seen as an apartment unit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u29	Thank you, and now with a point of fact... He's downloading, okay, so in that case, Minister Zaorálek has priority rights. We are still in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u30	Thank you. I will also respond briefly to the President of the Commission. I'm just gonna say that I just insist on what I said here. I just don't think the judgment that concerns the expert Doucha sounds like what you said, I don't have it here to read that it's clearly stated that he's acquitted that he didn't do the damage. Which is pretty crucial to our debate. I also insist that the validity of the 1966 Act does not mean that it was possible to comply with the OKD in 1990. I also simply insist that when it was said that the government was going to announce a public contest, that is, of course, well said. I can imagine what union and county would have done if the government had said that. It would just make a huge scream. Back then, politically, I can't imagine the government ever doing that. These are just all the factors that they were just different. Today, different variations are well said, but I'm saying that it was different in the political decision-making process. And as far as dealing with those shares, you found out, we thought in Ostrava that we had huge production assets in those big businesses that we had there, and we gradually came out of this feeling of what huge assets they were because, I guess, who came here? Rothschild has arrived, I think, to see the New Hut. He even took a carriage ride, it was such a big festivities, everyone thought he was going to take back the estate, and he finally said, I'm not interested. I remember when the decision was made about the New Huta, what was the great uncertainty about whether anyone would buy it at all. How hard it was to guess if we could even find someone who would be able to run it. So what we're talking about here is that something is automatically worth something. It's not like that. At the time, there was a huge uncertainty that our huge assets were inexhaustible, and it wasn't at all certain that anyone would take them. And you also know how Poldi Kladno ended up and so on. So the only reason I'm saying this is because when I say that a whole series of conclusions from this committee are simplified, there's no point in saying I don't agree, or we're not getting anything here. That's why I have such a request. I wish there was a revision, a kind of analysis of the report, like the Constitution of State and Law, and that we could get an answer to the dispute that we're having here. To simply say which one of us is right about what happened in 1990, and to be answered clearly by someone who stands out like that. I think it's often a legal dispute, and we're not gonna make it to the end here today. So I say for myself, I wish I could review what was written. I insist that on some of these points, I think that the conclusions of the committee are introducing us, or even create expectations that are dangerous, because, again, someone will think that this is something to be expected for the future, and I say that this is not the way to go. When we want to do something, it must be real and realistic, and therefore I cannot actually agree with what this report encourages, because I think that in many respects actually confuses the reader. And I'm not saying that now that I'm accusing the members of the committee, I think they did what they could. I'm sorry, but I just insist on the reservations that I have, and I wish we had answers that would be more accurate, and that a review analysis should be carried out on the questions that I have raised that I have raised, and that I would otherwise have them answered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u31	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u32	Thank you. Once again, a brief word, by your means to Minister Zaorálek. As much as I appreciate his speech, he committed deception because he talks about how we should be grateful for the fact that someone like Rothschild took care of those businesses because he didn't want those businesses. But if you look at the report, my colleague, you'll find that 65 billion without putting anything in, disappeared. The Prime Minister spoke of Arcelor, which you mentioned, 40 billion. What's the difference? Those businesses served as a cash cow to some financial groups that went and disappeared as profits. Today, yes, today these businesses are in a state where we should think about what they are worth. But when they took over, it became clear throughout history that the billions were in those businesses and that they disappeared abroad. That's the basic problem. And that Bakala was no philanthropist, that he took over a company that was just before the crash, as it might sound out of the speech, but apparently he took over it to flush it out. And the financial evidence clearly shows that the value was there and that he tripped it and took it away. That's just for clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u33	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Hájek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u34	I'm sorry to be a little late, but I have to respond. I have to respond. In my speech here, Mr Zaorálek, through Mr President, I have made it clear that Mr Sobotka has changed the provisions of the Treaty. Why? You didn't answer me why. He told us on the committee that he formulated it better. Well, he didn't say it better! [[raised voice]] The original formulation that obliged the buyer to create housing units that he had to hand over to the tenants was clear. She was clear! Why did Sobota cut it? You consult with them, I've been doing it for six years, what you've been talking about here, I've heard that in the last parliamentary term, when Mr Sobotka here gave an hour speech. You kept talking about 1996, the loss of the majority, but the bread broke in 2004! The state could, in quotes, get on those owners and just say, I'm not gonna sell it to you if you don't give the apartments! That's for sure! The whole thing OKD are apartments! 46,000 flats for CZK 40,000, 800 million, 32 billion today. That's what this is all about! And you can't defend here what committee and court and like that, just the math is clear, and those citizens are expecting clear information from us, how is it possible that someone steals 31 billion! He'll put in 800 million, get 32 billion. That's just what the citizens aren't gonna do, and they're just never gonna trust us in this direction unless we change anything! The question is, state, deal with this Bakala, and pay the price! If you paid 40,000 for the flat in that estimate, then pay the price! That's obvious, logical, and that's how it should be everywhere - these people feel the way I do because I've worked with these people my whole life. They just have the common sense that I have. [[Attention on time.]] And we can talk in flames here, and we can't change their minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u35	I'd ask for emotional relief, even though I understand it's tense. Now, therefore, with factual remarks, first President Kalousek, then Minister Zaorálek, then Mr Blažek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u36	Thank you. I want to thank Mr Hájek. Sorry. I want to thank Mr Hájek - it is a pity he does not listen to me. It's okay. I would like to thank Mr Hájek for recalling the sentence that I forgot from the draft purchase agreement, where there was a commitment that the buyer would create housing units, which he would then sell to the tenants. That sentence was actually there, and this sentence, which was there, condemns the absolute untruth of the report of the commission of inquiry, which said that the state had inserted apartments into the stock company. Because the housing units, when they weren't created, couldn't have been put in there. That's where the rental apartment houses were inserted. And we're talking about what we've been talking about for half an hour, it's a completely different chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u37	Thank you and now Minister Zaorálek with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u38	Yeah, well, try one more time, because you're saying people want to know where it lost to those apartments. And you're absolutely right, and I even agree with you that it wasn't meant to be, the minority stake in 2004 wasn't supposed to be sold. There's no point in arguing about that, which is probably what we've been thinking about all along. That was a mistake. But if you're asking why Sobotka stepped aside in that text, that's obvious - because the government was pulling the shorter end at that point, and when the majority owner at the moment it was to be sold, he said I wouldn't accept it, she had the only chance - to say she wouldn't sell it. But otherwise, you didn't get a chance to set the terms. And why didn't she have a chance? Because in 1996 the state voluntarily lost its majority position. And that's what I'm trying to explain here, and I insist. [[19.40 hours]] The whole battle was lost in 1996, when operations, by reducing the state's capital, were voluntarily deprived of a position in which he could still negotiate from the position of some kind of force. In 2004, he could already do one thing - just not sell at all, because he probably had limited opportunities to change the situation around the apartments. So let's not argue about what we agree on. It wasn't supposed to be sold, and it was supposed to be with the minority to try to play the best, even though his position was already weak. But I'd like at least some of this to remain as the basic thing that seems important to me. In 1996, the state simply went through privatisation in such a way that it simply lost influence on events. That was basic! And then it made it possible for everything else, including what was said here, that then the owner pulled 65 billion out of it. And he just made it into a shell. So I'd like to at least make this clear from what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u39	Time, Minister! Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek apologizes to us from 19.40 pm to the end of the day and now Mr Blažek with a point of fact, which is the last one at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u40	Thank you for the floor. I just hope that a brief response to Mr Hájek's colleague. There are two debates here. There's no quarrel in that one. I'm not here to defend what's been going on since 1990 until this year, when I wasn't even on any side, at all, I just knew it from the paper. My objections are more about the process and the fact that I really am very sensitive to what I actually call the abuse of criminal law in politics. And that's what we have in our country is that there are always some kind of criminal charges, so that one or another politician can show the nation that he is the angel who gives the criminal charges, and I say that we already know that many of the authorities involved in criminal proceedings have no chance at all after all this time to achieve anything new. That means I can't join in a way here, and now I'm sorry for the word, exhibating with something I know alone has no hope of success. And now I repeat, if we had a political debate about what happened back then, with the only reason that it couldn't happen again, that is, now the Communists will understand me, so that we have some lessons in crisis development in terms of OKD, so that it doesn't happen, those negative things, if they did, I would agree with that. But my reason for not voting in favour of it was essentially said, however differently, by colleague Kalousek. And I myself - and again I say, the committee of inquiry, and that basically pissed me off the most, shouldn't make a criminal complaint on its own! It is clearly written in the law, and so it should be that the commission is presenting a report to the House, and only when the House approves it is it a message. Here, x individuals simply gave some kind of criminal report, but they could have done that without signing as a commission. And since this has happened, I'm not even going to ex-post legalize it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u41	Thank you. At this point, I don't have... The President of Černohorský is reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u42	I don't have the Rules of Procedure in front of me right now, but there is that the committee of inquiry can file a criminal report and therefore it has done so. On another matter, as President Kalousek here said, houses were inserted there, not apartments. Of course, it is true that houses were placed there. Therefore, the investigation committee does not deny this, but we argue that the ban laid down in Section 14 of the Private Property Act on the apartments also applied to these transactions, since they were an integral part of the housing houses. In fact, the legal analysis was based on the case law of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, which also explicitly interprets the prohibition. In addition, the transfer of the flats to the OKD's core capital went beyond the obligations of the State which it had in the sale of the flats to the tenants, i.e. discounts, possible subsidies on purchase. In this regard, the so-called "circumstances' were also violated. the legitimate expectations of the tenants, which also resulted from this Section 14. The Minister suggested that an independent body assess it. But that's what the investigation committee is proposing. And the independent body that has the final word is a trial. If you want to assess the criminal report, the independent authority is the law enforcement authorities. So if we have come to any conclusions, then we have taken advantage of the possibility of an independent body assessing this, and we have drawn attention to possible errors that have happened in the past, we have offered a solution that the court can judge independently. If there's any need, whether it's Charles University, Faculty of Law, to do some of your academic exercises, because, of course, the final decision will always be a court-martial, so it can. Most documents can be requested for their needs, for example, at the Ministry of Finance, and they can carry out further assessments. But, as I say, the final word would always be court-martialed, and the same will apply even after the investigation into law enforcement authorities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u43	Thank you. And if at this point no one else is reporting to the general debate - Mr Bojko. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring into this case a slightly different perspective as a person who was directly affected by this OKD case. And through Mr President to Mr Kalousek. I really don't care if we're gonna play catchphrases here, whether it was houses or apartments. I am interested in the fact that through Mr. Bakala and the people who actually helped him get to OKD, and the apartments that he publicly promised to offer for sale, he never did. Now imagine that you are in a situation of a person who lives, I have been in mining my whole life, my father also, my dead brothers also, and imagine that you live 20 years in an apartment, and in 1998 I was called by an apartment manager and says: Mr. Bojko, no later than three years, by 2001, all the apartments belonging to the OKD at that time will be sold out to the people who live in those apartments. So imagine, you live in a pedestal. Polák - just an apartment core ugly. You're a modern young family, so what are you gonna do? You have a promise that the apartment will be sold to you, so I'll invite the company, because OKD won't do it to you, so with your money, you'll knock out the core, you'll wall up, you'll make a beautiful bathroom. And misses a year, misses two, misses three, misses ten, misses fifteen, and nothing happens! Your apartment wasn't sold, your rents went up three times. When I left the apartment, the rents were already over CZK 10,000 for a family of two. Not to mention the city sold all its apartments. More or less all of them, kept social housing. And the people who bought these houses, they were actually superbly elevated -- they warmed up, they made a new armored door, a basement door, they just made it perfect. And try to look, you should have made your way to North Moravia in Karvina, to Eagle, to Havířov, to those RPG apartments, what a mess it is. That's the most disgusting place in this state. Nobody put a penny in the heat from the outside. They've moved in unadaptable people. I lived in a beautiful environment near the park near the toss hall in Karviná. Beautiful, walks with a dog. And people started dying, those old-timers, and they started moving in with us our inadaptable fellow citizens who migrated here from all over the Republic or lived out of apartments in Karvina IV, so they moved in. And you work as a mining paramedic, you want to sleep, and by three o'clock in the morning, someone wins on your violin over you, so just what else do you have left? You're going to buy an apartment somewhere in a quiet location. A lot of people did that, unfortunately. We've been punished several times. We invested money in improving our apartments, in repairs, and then we were forced to move somewhere else. Not to mention it was RPG after OKD. They never invested a dime in that apartment. Until you moved out of that apartment, they didn't invest anything. You moved out, you made new electricity, new bathrooms, new floors, etc. Until then, they didn't invest a penny. So tens of thousands of families have been destroyed by quality of life. Maybe more than 100,000 people, because they were forced to move out, or, and it's happening now too, in Karvina they knocked down 14 houses and the inadaptable ones who lived in the houses, so they moved in with normal people, because RPG, then Residomo had a lot of apartments ready, so now my granddaughter bought an apartment and they moved in with about seven Romani families next door, so they're thinking about moving out. [[19.50 hours]] Just like that... we've been punished several times. And that's why I'm saying I'd personally be in favour of Bakala being punished with those who allowed him to privatize. But even when the committee was mentioned, I knew that no one in life would ever get an American citizen living in Switzerland before a committee or even a court of law. So he's gonna laugh at us with a cigar in his mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u45	Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ambassador, I'm sorry, I know it feels like playing with words, but it's not. It's just a search for the kind of legal title you can or can't use. And those wordings are important to the use of the title, because the question is, what was the property that was being transferred? I'm not defending Mr. Bakala's procedure. I totally understand your feelings. I consider it shameful to promise tens of thousands of people that I will do something about the property they consider to be their home, and then fail to fulfill that promise. I'm not defending it, I consider it shameful. But in 2007, I became Minister of Finance, and I tried my best to get it back to normal. Despite all the analysis, despite all the lawsuits that the office did for my leadership, and then after that, for Minister Janota, I know it was too late in 2007. That's all the more late it is now. And I think it's unfair to inspire people who have your legitimate feelings to give them any hope that it's not too late. I don't think he's supposed to be doing that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u47	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u48	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to the previous speaker. Through Mr President, I wanted to ask Mr Kalousek why he took seven and a half million from Mr Bakala in 2010 on the basis of the donation agreement he signed. Because I consider it shameful, not that we're dealing with some people who are listed in the report. The fact that after what happened, you took seven and a half million from Bakala to the TOP 09 campaign on the basis of the contract you signed, and now you're covering yourself in the cape of being some kind of moral role model. Better wrap yourself up with the Tibetan flag, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u49	And if no one else is reporting at this point... President Kalousek to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u50	It would be brave not to answer. Unfortunately, in 2007 and 2009 it was not possible to prove that any legal title had been violated. If Zdeněk Bakala decided in 2010 to devote himself to three political parties graduated according to the preferences of the sponsorship gift, he did so completely transparently, so we accepted the gift. I think it's a lot more moral than taking the money in a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u51	And Mr Bělobrádek is reporting with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I think that defaming political parties for receiving money from sponsors transparently is the best example of how it will end up, that no sponsors will want to give money to those parties transparently and try to intervene in politics transparently. I think it's totally counterproductive. We did not receive any money from Mr Bakala, we dropped out of the House in 2010, but I consider such attacks on transparent funding of political parties by private entities to be the best promotion for everyone, regardless of whether the sponsors are controversial or whether they are great, to try not to put the money there and influence the political parties differently. And I really don't think that's very sensible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u53	Thank you. I know we are responding to the debate. After all, I would like to make a point, which means the report we're discussing. I don't blame you, I'm just trying. Mr Hájek with a factual remark, then Mr Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u54	Vice-President Pikale, through Mr President, I am now addressing you, I do not know how to say this properly. I'm sorry for my emotional behavior. But if you had been a paramedic for 36 years, 30 years, dozens of accidents, dozens of deaths, emotions would have awakened in you, too. I just never breathe what happened in OKD. As far as the donations are concerned, the advantage of the Chamber of Deputies is that they are the tapestry. When I was dealing with the issue of OKD in the last parliamentary term, I remembered your response through Mr President when Mr Zaorálek asked you, I now do not know if by means of whether you will ever take a sponsorship gift. I, Miroslav Kalousek, swear here that I will never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever take a crown from Mr. Bakala's TOP 09. Six months have passed, as the President says, sometimes those views need to be changed, and the TOP 09 has taken seven and a half million. So sometimes that's the truth. So that's the advantage, I'm really saying, of the tapestry. You can respond, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u55	Thank you. Member Kalousek is already logged in. Now, then, President Michálek, then President Kalousek, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u56	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I know it's late, we're tired. But my criticism was not aimed at transparent funding of political parties. I think everyone understood. My criticism was about who you took the money from. And that is what every political party should consider, from whom it receives the money and where it comes from. Of course, it may come to light that the person is somehow problematic, then it is appropriate to return the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u57	Thank you. Now, then, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u58	The response is simple, Mr. Hájek. We are dealing with an investigative report where, oddly enough, you may not have thought of it, one single word about the funding of political parties. But blameless citizens and even the deceased are being pillaged there. And you didn't explain that here. And you can't talk about sponsoring gifts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u59	Thank you. That's the last point in fact at the moment. Nor do I have anyone registered for the debate. So if no one else is reporting, I am done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words after the general debate? There will still be a detailed debate. So if there is no interest in the final words, which it is not, then I am opening up a debate in detail, which I do not have anyone registered to at the moment. However, the rapporteur is reporting, so I would prefer the lady. He's also privileged, then gentlemen. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me read in this detailed debate the motion for a resolution on the final report of the Chamber of Deputies' committee on OKD: "The Chamber of Deputies: I take note of the final report of the Chamber of Deputies' committee on OKD; II. Calls on the Government to proceed with the measures of the Commission of inquiry referred to in the final report.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u61	Thank you. Ambassador Luzar applied earlier, at least I noticed him earlier. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to a note. Member Feri apologizes to us until the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the motion for a short resolution on today's point: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to respect resolution 653 of 6 in all seriousness towards the Chamber of Deputies. 6. 2019'. For the record, I would like to quote this resolution, it has two brief points. In the first point, he notes that a large number of excesses, errors and crimes occurred during the privatisation of state property between 1992 and 2005, which caused damage to property by the Czech Republic and its citizens in hundreds of billions of crowns and which the governments of the Czech Republic have not yet resolved and their consequences have not been eliminated. [[20.00 hours]] And point 2. It asks the Government to process and propose an effective amendment to criminal law so that such acts of privatisation can still be prosecuted and punished in order to avoid their limitation, including an assessment of whether there has been a situation at a certain time where the limitation period could not even run.' That is the citation of the resolution approved by this House. And I would ask the government to carry out this resolution as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u63	Thank you. And Mr Hájek also entered into a detailed debate. And I would ask, if necessary, for a motion for a resolution to be forwarded to the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u64	Mr President, I therefore have, as I have announced, an accompanying resolution on the final report of the OKD commission of inquiry, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies considers the proceedings of Zdeněk Bakala, who refused to give a witness statement, to be unacceptable contempt for the constitutional body of the Czech Republic, moreover reinforced by the fact that he has become rich in the Czech Republic and his assets and investments are protected by the Czech authorities. The House notes that by ostensibly refusing to fulfil its legal witnessing obligation, Zdeněk Bakala violated the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and its annex." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u65	Thank you. I would also ask you to give the proposal to the rapporteur if necessary. And if no one else is reporting for a detailed debate, at this point, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after a detailed debate. It is not the case by the appellant or the rapporteur. In that case, we should now vote on resolutions. I would ask the rapporteur to guide us through the procedure and, if necessary, by voting. Please. [[There's noise in the room.]] And please calm down in the hall, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u66	Thank you for the floor. So I first propose to vote on the resolution tabled by the committee of inquiry. Secondly, we will vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Luzar. And as the third motion for a resolution by Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u67	Yes, thank you. It's a procedure proposal. It's simple, yet I'd have it approved. So if... I've already called my colleagues. There's a checkout request. I'll check you out, please sign in with your cards again. And when the number of applicants settles, we'll vote on the procedure. Madame...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u68	I would ask that we vote on the resolution after the points. That resolution, too, read by Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u69	So even with the Commission's proposal for points. I beg the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u70	So I'll be more specific. That way, we'll vote four times. That means we will divide the motion for a resolution of the committee of inquiry into two parts. For the first time, we will vote in point No. 1: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the final report of the Chamber of Deputies investigating committee on OKD." And then there will be another separate vote, item No. 2. "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to proceed with the measures of the Commission of inquiry referred to in the final report."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u71	Yes, thank you. So I think the procedure is clear now. We will vote gradually on all four proposals. I'm opening the procedure vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 174, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 97, against no one. We've approved the procedure. So I am asking for individual motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u72	So we're the first to vote on the announced point No. 1 - a motion for a resolution of the committee of inquiry, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the final report of the committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on OKD."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u73	Thank you. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 175, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 81, against 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u74	We are now voting in item No. "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to take action in terms of the measures taken by the Commission of inquiry referred to in the final report."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u75	Thank you. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 176, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 51, against 4. This proposal has also been adopted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u76	We will now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Leo Luzar, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to respect resolution No. 653 of 6. 6. 2019'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u77	Thank you. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 177, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 24, against 23. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u78	And we are voting on the last motion for a resolution by Mr Hájek, who reads: "The Chamber of Deputies considers the proceedings of Zdeněk Bakala, who refused to present a witness statement, to be an unacceptable contempt for the constitutional body of the Czech Republic, moreover reinforced by the fact that he has become rich in the Czech Republic and his assets and investments are protected by the Czech authorities. The House notes that by ostensibly refusing to fulfil its legal witnessing obligation, Zdeněk Bakala violated the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and its annex."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u79	There. prosit klid down. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 178, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. That's all I know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u80	And I note that all motions for resolutions have been voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-004-285.u81	Yes, thank you. That should be all things within this point, so that's the end of it. Thank you to all those who have stuck with us, and good night. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
