ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u1	374. Government proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS CoV-2 Coronavirus in the field of employee protection in the event of the insolvency of the employer /house printing 851/ - shortened conduct The item was interrupted before the appearance of the plaintiff's representative, which was meant to be Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová, but I have a request from the Government and the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek will present on behalf. So, Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, once again to this point, which I have not yet gotten to before lunch, I might as well bring it up this time. Again, this is the point at which I was asked to represent Minister Jana Maláčová due to her indisposition today. So I would like to present a government bill that concerns the mitigation of the effects of the Coronavirus on workers' protection in the event of the employer's insolvency. This is a loophole, or a problem that has already emerged in connection with the earlier draft law, and this proposal is precisely a response to the Act on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the epidemic on persons involved in legal proceedings, victims of criminal offences and legal persons, and to the amendment of insolvency law and the Civil Code, which took effect on 24 April 2020. According to this law, the creditor insolvency proposal, which is filed between 24 April and 31 August 2020, shall not be taken into account. It is precisely that it does not take into account that it has a major impact on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer, and this limitation of the effect of the creditor insolvency proposal effectively prevents the employees' debts from being met by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. [[16.00 hours]] The system of the proposed regulation is therefore to maintain the possibility of employees of an incompetent employer to be satisfied on their wage claims by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, in principle under the same conditions as were here before the effectiveness of the said law. The aim is to provide the workers concerned with a legal instrument that would enable them to satisfy at least part of their wage demands by the employment office, in a simple, quick, understandable form, even in a difficult situation such as the current situation caused by the epidemic. The proposed regulation will have no immediate financial impact on the state budget or on other public budgets in the context of the legislation effective before the adoption of measures to mitigate the effects of the epidemic. Given that the Government's bill is presented in connection with the declared emergency situation, it is also necessary to set an effective date as soon as possible, that is the day of publication in the Collection of Laws. It is precisely for these reasons that Minister Maláčová has asked the Government to discuss the law in a short hearing under the declared state of legislative emergency pursuant to Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. So with these circumstances and these requests, I also ask you to support this apparently necessary bill. So much for putting in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u3	The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as Parliament's press 851/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. So, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I think the Minister has given this proposal in detail here. I would just add that the Committee on Social Policy met yesterday before the House meeting and adopted one amendment, which was Mr Marek the Výborný's amendment, and finally adopted a resolution which I would now read to you and, as you said, which everyone has under number 851/1. It is the 172th resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, of the 52nd meeting, of 5 May 2020 on the Government Bill on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus in the area of employee protection in the event of the insolvency of the employer, House printing 851. After the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, the report by Jana Pastuchová and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to end its negotiations on this bill by 19.00 on 6 May 2020 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus in the area of protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer, House press 851, as amended by this adopted amendment: V § 2 para. 3 the following sentence shall be inserted after the words "written call for payment": "The Regional Branch of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic shall do so not earlier than three months after the end of the period laid down in Section 13 (1). 1 of Law No. 191/2020 Sb.'; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Assembly of Deputies; In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, it has made legislative technical adjustments accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u5	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, everyone. And we could now decide not to have a general debate, but I do believe that such a proposal has not been made, so I am opening the general debate. And I have two applications for that right now. Mr Bauer is the first to be logged in and then Mr Výborný. So, please, Mr. Bauer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u6	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, very briefly indeed. Let me share with you the feeling I had from the meeting of the Social Policy Committee yesterday morning. I don't want to burden anyone by the fact that the proposal came at midnight, that no one had time to get to know him properly and that we were able to express ourselves very difficultly, so we rather trust that the relevant ministries are able to write the laws well. Anyway, I like to name things by their real names. Why do we even have this proposal here? We want to help workers whose employers have become insolvent so that they can help through the employment office and pay their wages. That's one version. The second version is that 24. On the 4th of this year, lex covid justice was adopted, according to which no account is taken of the creditor insolvency proposal filed from 24 April to 31 August and because of this measure, employees are not entitled to recover amounts due through the labour offices. In other words, with this small proposal that we are debating, we are correcting poorly prepared laws, or the law that was passed on 24 April of this year. That means we're fixing the previous covid law with one of the covideo laws. Of course, Minister Zaorálek was not at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee. I was very glad that the Minister's mouth also said that she had rather apologized, because she was not entirely sure whether this bill was correcting the error that probably arose at the Ministry of Justice, if it was not on the edge of the law to be approved under emergency conditions. Eventually, we agreed to it. That apology went down. And there was also a promise that it would never happen again in the future, so I'm curious. And I also wanted to ask if the relevant ministries are able to write well-designed laws so that we do not have to correct one covid law with the following. Second point, that's the last one. I even have the unpleasant feeling that the proposal itself, through which we are correcting bad legislative proposals from the past, whether it is also not badly written in itself, because - and now I rather refer to the amendment of my colleague Marek the Výborný, because by this bill we want to help the workers who are in a difficult situation. On the other hand, if the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs were adopted, in my opinion, given the time-limits, and in the absence of the amendment of Mr Výborný, we can put the staff into a very unpleasant situation. So for that reason - I understand that Minister Zaorálek is not an expert and he probably did not get to know the material, but I want to ask if the amendment tabled by Mr Mark Excellent is the one that means, among other things, an extension of three months of the deadline, when we give employers the opportunity to deal with it, whether it is the optimal term and whether they identify with this proposal as the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u7	Thank you. The Minister is now reporting with priority rights or a factual remark, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u8	Yes. I can respond to that right now. I, of course, should not speak for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but I have spoken exactly to the Minister about this issue. And I can say here for her that she really supports this proposal by Mr Výborný. Those three months according to her, it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u9	Thank you. And now, Mr Výborný in the debate, Mrs Valachová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Vice Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues, this has already been said. And my colleague Bauer was right to say so. We're really fixing the thing that came from the already approved 807, lex covid justice. However, as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and again may I remind you that here we really have to ensure that employees, because at this point... So we know what we're talking about. On the basis of this law, lex covid justice is created a kind of withdrawal period when I say this very simply, a withdrawal period for employers, companies, businesses for which insolvency proceedings will not be declared until 31 August of this year 2020. Just a creditor's audition proposal is blocked until the end of the holidays, until 31 August 2020. Nor does a law firm have to file an insolvency claim. This is important to protect companies, entrepreneurs, so that at the moment when they are in default as a result of the crisis, they have sufficient room, in simple terms, to vanquish and get out of the situation, and that there will be unnecessary auditions and people will not start doing business again and so forth, simply to maintain continuity. Very important measures that we have put in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice in the proposal of lex covid justice. Unfortunately, the thing that is being corrected today has actually escaped there, and that is actually the impact on employees, because at the time the insolvency proposal or bankruptcy is blocked, employees cannot be paid compensation of wages, as the law implies. This is what we are correcting with this press 851, however, as it was submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs sometime last night or two nights ago, so it would actually occur when I say it figuratively, that we would pour out the baby with the bathtub, and we certainly don't want that. I am glad that Minister Maláčová and the Committee on Social Policy also supported the minor amendment. In principle, employers who are insolvent and do not pay their employees' wages should not be forced to pay these funds back to the labour authorities within very strict 15 days, i.e. to enforce the labour authorities - and this is the subject of the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate - so that this enforcement from the Office of the Labour Office of the Czech Republic can only be possible after three months from the end of the application of Section 13 of this lex covid justice, in other words after the first November 2020. It is therefore an effort to protect the employees, that is to say the press 851, and at the same time not to destroy the benefits of what we have adopted on 24 April, thereby protecting companies, entrepreneurs, businessmen. I think this proposal also has a ratio with this amendment. Thank you for your understanding and for the support of the Minister and, of course, the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u11	Thank you. President Pekarová came forward with priority rights. Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby apologize for entering into this debate with priority rights, but very briefly, in a way, a factual point would suffice. Because I want to follow up on the previous speaker, so I'll take the liberty of speaking before the lady who's duly logged in. I want to support the amendment with which my colleague Výborný came. We, as has already been said here by other speakers, really had time to prepare the gallows' amendments. And I was actually coming to the Committee on Social Policy with a very similar proposal, as my colleague Výborný puts it here, and I would like to ask that we support his proposal, and therefore I do not propose my proposal any more, because we have recognised on the committee that its version and concept is legislatively more precise and that it is therefore really better to put that slippery time, not a fixed date, as I originally intended to propose. I think that we really should give companies a longer time delay or a longer time to pay their commitments to the employment authorities at such a time when really many of them are with income at zero, so 15 days for some of them or for a large part of them would be completely impossible. Therefore, please, let us support the proposal. I am glad that he has passed the committee quite smoothly and that it has also been said on the committee by representatives of the Ministry, including Minister Maláčová, that it is a change that is desirable, which also convenes them, and thus it is possible to encourage companies to be able to manage their duty better. Rather, an intercession for an amendment. It will definitely be a press that we will be able to support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u13	Thank you. Now, therefore, in the general debate, Mrs Valachová, who is the last to be logged in at the moment. I'll give her time to prepare for her performance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u14	Mr President, thank you for your little patience. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, allow me to present my amendment, which I have signed up for in the system and to which I intend to sign up in the context of a detailed debate. I am aware that we are in a legislative emergency, which is, of course, an emergency situation, and it is not just for us but, above all, for all citizens and citizens. There has already been a reservation that this law itself, as we are discussing it in a legislative emergency, is a sort of correction of what we have previously approved in a legislative emergency. Its content is the social security of persons. That's the content. We want us in no way to reduce the social security of people in the context of the changes that we have pushed through in a legislative emergency in previous negotiations. That was neither the purpose nor the purpose of the changes that we accepted. In a similar vein, there is an amendment to which I intend to apply. The point is that I want to respond - precisely because we are in an emergency and in a legislative emergency - to the fact that there are currently no clear conditions for the participation of pupils in schools and children in kindergartens by 30 June 2020 and I believe that it is necessary to create conditions for parents, given the current epidemiological situation, to be free to decide whether or not to place the child in the school or nursery in the following period without losing entitlement to the infirmary. I note that in this spirit all public statements of competent persons have been made in recent weeks. So parents were in good faith that it would be up to them whether they would send the child to kindergarten or school or not. After all, there is no renewal of compulsory schooling. Should existing legislation be maintained, the parent who decides not to place the child in school or in kindergarten with regard to the best interest of the child who may not be directly related to health risks would lose entitlement to the infirmary, but may be related to the potential negative effects on the psychosocial development of the child in the event that it would be forced to attend school or preschool under specific exceptional hygiene conditions. At the same time, this proposal also addresses situations where the school or kindergarten will be formally opened, but in view of the need to ensure specific exceptional hygiene conditions, it will not have sufficient capacity for all children. Dear colleagues, I do not do this normally, it is an exceptional situation, in this spirit of course I also apologise to the rapporteur, because under the normal regime, not in a legislative emergency and in difficult time conditions, it would undoubtedly be appropriate to discuss the amendment within the committee, but I believe that we are obliged to respect that at this moment we have a really significant problem within schools, parents do not have sufficient information and that we are saving children's rights with this amendment. This, I believe, is a matter on which, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should take particular care of in a legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention and, of course, I will beg you to support this change, which only brings clarity to the situation that is chaotic for parents at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u15	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Nacher. The rapporteur then made herself known to me in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u16	Good afternoon again. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I'll leave the response to the previous proposal to my fellow rapporteur, because I don't know if it has anything to do with this proposal. But I have a question about what we're discussing here. We, with the original proposal, that's the 807, actually more protective of employers, in fact indirectly even those employees, so that the employer doesn't start from the beginning or end completely. Now, the right thing to do is to get the employment office to pay the employee's salary for a certain period of time. However, my question is directed, and now I don't know who, because the Minister is not here, if the 15 days were really crazy, I would say almost out of the question, but even the three months that my colleague proposes Výborný, if it will be enough time for the employer to return the funds to the employment office. Because if we look at how this economy is going to go back, and it's going to go back gradually and slowly, we're going to be happy when companies get to 70 percent at some point, 50% of what they had before the coronavirus. Like, if they get 100 percent, it could be a year from now. If ever. And now we're talking about the fact that they're actually going to be employed in real time and they're going to have to actually return the funds back. So I just wanted to ask that we don't meet here in a few months, and we don't extend that time. So if there's any numbers or any other information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u17	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Pastuchová, I have Mr Bauer reporting from my post. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u18	Well, thank you. Excuse me, I'm breathing in what's going on here. I was, at 21.40, we received this House press two days ago, and I was asked personally by the Minister to discuss it. I thanked all my colleagues that we were able to meet in full at one o'clock yesterday, and I begged them all to deliver the amendments by 12.30 o'clock. They did, we had a chance to discuss it. And before my coverage, I looked into a system where there was no further amendment to this press. And now that I'm sitting behind the newsstand, here, with all due respect, my colleague, your amendment that the Secretary of State came to see me yesterday, and I told her to discuss it with the government, where it's supposed to be for the coalition meeting tomorrow. And yet you brought it up without informing me as rapporteur. I don't think that's what you do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u19	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Valachová's point of fact, then Mr Bauer. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u20	I will allow myself, through the President, to ask to calm my emotions. As regards the loading of amendments under this regime, three weeks are happening in a number of other situations. This is an emergency. In my word, I gave it quite pragmatically and inconflictly. My goal is because we do not know when we will meet again in a legislative emergency, it is not clear if next week the House will be convened in a legislative emergency. However, what is clear is that since Monday, especially in kindergartens, there has been total chaos and that it is not fulfilled with parents, and here I believe we have an absolute agreement with the colleague we promised them. This is the amendment that corrects it. And as far as the content agreement is concerned, I also tried to explain it. He'll be at the House in what way he'll stand up to it. If the Chamber of Deputies considers by its majority that it does not want to support this matter, that is its decision. I'll respect that. However, I have to respond to that not reporting of the amendment. Well, if there's such a practice within the Social Committee, I like it, and I'm going to believe that it's going to be transferred to the Education Committee. Unfortunately, it doesn't apply there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u21	Now it's getting a little complicated. Mr. Excellent is also reporting, I presume with priority rights. I will ask Mr Bauer if he has any prior rights. I don't think so. However, Mrs Aulická is reporting with a point of fact. So, in turn, Mrs Aulická, Mr Výborný and Mr Bauer. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I really had to react because I am very sorry about this situation. I think we should probably care about bringing people back to work and starting slowly, and at the same time, to meet such irregularities in the process of easing or planning, easing what the government is actually preparing, or perhaps the three most important ministries. That's why we said in the non-discipline that it might be a good idea for the adjustment to start our kindergarten, to compare with the opening of the primary schools so that the claim, which actually ceases to be due to the opening of primary schools, even if you don't actually send the child to the kindergarten, so we said, let's compare it to 25 May so that the claim could therefore be with the fact that employers, of course, also respond to it, to the dates that the Ministry of Education said. I must say that I do not like the communication between the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at all, and I refuse to let Members here deal with what the government has to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u23	Thank you. And now, with Mrs Valachová's point of fact. And then I learned that Mr Bauer has priority rights. So let's move it up a little bit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u24	Colleagues, colleagues, I think I am a calm, substantive voice and with clear arguments described the situation of the amendment, including why this extraordinary solution is appropriate in a legislative emergency. And it's up to the Chamber of Deputies to decide. If the majority is not in favour of this, the amendment will not pass. As far as previous speakers are concerned, I understand that they do not have a problem with the proposal, they do not deny that the problem has arisen. I'm responding to what the problem is, and we don't know, and we don't know if we're meeting next week. As I say, if the majority is in favour of this, this amendment will be adopted and the parents will have a solution. If not, then no. And as for what the government and MEPs have to deal with. So I think we all know the Constitution, we won't deny each other that someone can make an amendment and someone can't. Plus, this is a very special thing. I think we should be cool to decide whether or not they are dealing with what parents in schools now need to deal with. If we say yes, it's appropriate to support it. If for any reason we say no, we will not support it. So I don't understand the passions. In a legislative emergency, I think. The House is supposed to save rights, in this case children's rights, and should ensure that all the steps it takes for parents, in this case for parents, are transparent and predictable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u25	Thank you if that's all. And I'm gonna ask you not to shout at each other. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Výborný has come forward. And then perhaps, if I have it all right, it should be Mr. Bauer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm kind of enjoying watching this inter-calice fight and all, but I didn't sign up for that de facto comment about it. I want to respond to my colleague Patrik Nacher through you, Mr Vice-President. Well, I don't know if I'm 1. 11. It will be real for the labour authorities to recover the sums from the employers. But we came out of a reasonable period of three months. It's still a better situation than that proposed by the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. And once again, the employees will not lose their wages, or pay their wages. The employment office will pay them as soon as the employers' insolvency occurs. At the same time, employers will not face immediate enforcement from the employment office. That's all. And just the process of when the employment office can - and I'd like to hope here for some reasonable proportionality and consideration of those employment offices that they won't sit down on November 2 or November 1st, and they won't start writing those orders. [[16.30 hours]] Of course, we have no idea what the fall situation will be, and I don't know if we're gonna have to go back to that either. But at this point, I see it as appropriate, the delay for those three months, and not before November 1st, the labor authorities will not be able to claim the funds. Of course, we don't have a crystal ball, we don't know what's going to happen in the fall, but I think it's wise to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u27	Thank you. And the next in the order of the speakers is first priority rights - Mr Bauer, then again Mr Výborný, who has spoken in the meantime, so I do not know if he will withdraw - thank you - and then Mrs Pastuchová with the priority right of the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u28	I merely confirm that there is nothing more joyful for opposition policy than to watch the fight of coalition parties and mutual double-crossings live, but I do not perform for it either. I just wanted to ask in general perhaps, I do not know, through Mr President, Mrs Valachová, whether they have it well thought out. Because you've prepared lex covid justice wrong, and we need to correct it with this bill, and since we're probably going to join Mr. Výborný's amendment, it's kind of wrong, too, this bill we have here. We didn't have time to study it - of course, it's a crisis situation. And what Mrs. Valachová introduced, we got on the table a few minutes ago. I didn't see it, I can't study it. But more importantly. The fact that you can't explain to your moms how they're supposed to act is that you want to deal with the law? Is this even necessary to deal with the law? I don't know, I'm not quite sure, I haven't studied what it says. I agree with you that even us and my parents are turning to me because the situation is not completely clear, but wouldn't it be better to explain it to them? Is that why we have to make laws? So for that reason, I appeal to you to think this through, if necessary, and I repeat, I ask if you are well prepared, because you are not doing very well in legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u29	Thank you. Mr Výborný has already withdrawn his application, so now Mrs Pastuchová and then Mrs Richterová is applied in the proper manner. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u30	I would just like to assure Mrs Valachová that I have a problem with you in a matter of fact. And don't put anything in my mouth that I agree with you. I disagree. I don't agree until June 30th. Especially not at all - you didn't even give me the amendment. I have a computer here, it wasn't there, and you handed it out to all your opposition colleagues, you didn't give it to me. I don't even know what to say here, Madame. I don't know what's in there. I don't know if they'll get the infirmary by 30, even if they go to kindergarten or school. I don't know. I don't know what we're gonna vote on here. So I'm glad we won't be voting in a legislative emergency right away, so we'll have a break. I'm gonna invite my colleagues, including the Secretary of Finance, and we're gonna talk about how we're gonna vote for what you gave us here. Because I really don't know. You didn't tell us if you did, the baby's going to kindergarten, or she's not going to kindergarten because it's volunteering, Mommy's gonna be scared. So he's gonna keep picking up parenting. maminka, who puts her baby in kindergarten, won't get a parent. And what if the mommy puts the baby in kindergarten or school for 14 days and not for 14 days? She's gonna make a statement of work, attendance, and then she's gonna cash it in? I really don't know what you meant by June 30th. So I'm really gonna be happy - if we don't make it, I'm gonna ask for a break because we're gonna have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u31	Thank you. I'll remind you that between second and third reading, we'll be dealing with other prints. Now, therefore, with factual remarks first, Minister Schillerová, then Mr Kasal, Mr Bendl and Mrs Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll just be very brief. Of course, we discussed it on Monday at the government, we opened the subject, both at schools. In principle, we were in agreement that either there was a child in school, then the infirmary was not logical. Or maybe he's not at school, and then the infirmary is. I don't think there's anything to deal with. And it's tied to when schools open, they won't open up, of course, whether the baby goes there for any reason or not. We didn't solve kindergartens because kindergartens aren't primarily in the spirit of the Minister of Education. The agreement was, the Prime Minister's instructions were that the three ministries communicate with each other and that we would return to the government tomorrow. That's all. I also do not think that we need legislative amendments for this, as the Member here has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u33	Thank you, thank you for not spending time. Now, then, Mr Kasal, then Mr Bendl, with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's obviously a problem, because the moment - and now it looks like I'm talking to something else. We're trying to disengage the medical system. Nurses and doctors work in that medical system. Those nurses, if they're in the Czech Republic, like they are, and there are hospitals where they can have 20 percent of people in the Czech Republic - you can't run the system. It's the same with education. And we're talking about first degree. So I appreciate my colleague Valachová, but if we want to normalize the system as it is - and this morning there was a press conference that said what the immunity is, or how we are - it is not possible for this to be June 30th. It's definitely not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Bendl with a point of fact, Mrs Valachová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u36	Thank you for the floor. Well, I feel like if anyone's listening to us, then they should just say God be with us and evil be gone. I am very sorry that Minister Maláčová is not here at this time, because I assume that the President will confirm that we, as opposition, have behaved very well, we have respected all the rules, we have come up with a minimum of amendments that we have consulted so that the Ministry can comment on this and that we will discuss this in a matter of fact. Coming up with it now and saying, "Well, we're gonna do it so the kindergartens have the same thing as the schools," that's two completely different systems. The D.O.D. can't really tell us what's going on with the infirmary right now. And, exceptionally, I agree with the Minister of Finance that we really don't need the law to do this. The moment the preschool opens, the infirmary just goes down. And a lot of people are already calling for it. Imagine pushing it to 30. 6. What are these people gonna do with the kids at home? How are they gonna make it? When epidemiologists - I spent two hours with them today - say that children are simply not concerned with the problem, do whatever it takes to protect teachers, give them drapes or respirators if they want them, because I understand that some are afraid, they are older generations and so on, they are terrified, so why not? But the kids don't have the problem, and the sooner we let them back in, the better for everyone. Even those mothers - if you propose here quite seriously that kindergartens will actually be open after 30. Six, these people are gonna go completely legit. They just don't have a solution. They don't have a solution! Get back on the ground. Let go of the kindergarten, do it, kindergarten, just recommend that they open up at last. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That's terrible. And by the way, the Minister of Education isn't anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u37	Thank you. Now, Mrs Valachová with a point of fact, then Mr Nacher, Mrs Aulická, Mrs Pekarová, Mr Kasal for the second time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u38	Colleagues, colleagues, kindergartens and schools are opening. That was decided, there are clear rules. At kindergartens, it's like they've never been closed. They were never closed. What this amendment deals with is a clear message that it is up to parents to send a child to kindergarten or kindergarten in this emergency situation. If so, he's losing his claim to the infirmary, if not, he's not losing his claim to the infirmary. And it is the content of this amendment. So I do not agree with what has been said here by the Minister of Finance that this is clear. It's not clear. And unfortunately, the reactions of parents and schools bear witness to this. Again, please, the amendment should have brought a solution. I am surprised that as far as the situation that many parents, children and schools are really dealing with at the moment is concerned, it brings so much emotion into the House. Nothing will happen except that the amendment will either be supported or not supported. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u39	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Nacher. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u40	Thank you for your word, I almost wanted to sign off, you summoned me earlier. I wanted to respond, and now we've got this kind of double-track thing going on here, and my colleague Valachová's fresh proposal has raised factual points. I only wanted to respond to my colleague, Honza Bauer, by your means, that I do not think that it was somehow legislatively messy, or, as he said, that lex covid justice really touched on a very broad area of change in enforcement law, insolvency, concern consumers, concern legal persons, completely new, some things are actually there as if new. We were really on the move, I have to say that again. And as I recall, these things here, too, have gone through the Chamber of Deputies by overwhelming majority, because we all felt that it was useful and meaningful. There is not primarily the protection of the employer, but through the employees. Yes, the employee protection law has fallen out of it, and that's now being corrected. It could just happen, the 15 days were, like I said, out. I think we're open here. There's been an amendment for three months, and I think it's gonna be a little low. We'll see if we can get back to it. So here's the deal. But I don't think it's gonna be too dumb if you look at lex covid justice, it was really a very complicated material, and it needs to be realized that it was about one out of ten. It was 807, and if I recall, it was 805 to 815, which I really think is a good performance, that there are things that were able to capture and that were able to fix. The question is how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u41	Thank you. And now, Mrs Aulická, with a point of fact, then Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u42	Thank you for the floor. I might want to see how many mayors we've got here, because if we're worried about something here, and now maybe I'm not going to get into it so fast, I guess everyone's knocking on their heads. Because, above all, here we show the inability of the Chamber of Deputies, virtually. Don't be angry with me, but also with governments, the fact that we can't give clear opinions as to how the authorities should actually proceed. Self-administration is gradually opening nursery schools, I think we all know that. And according to that law, as it is currently in force, and no one has changed it, so the kindergarten is not able to write any obstacle from the opening for parents who want to continue to draw the infirmary. This means that even parents who do not send their child to kindergarten, and the kindergarten normally opens, fall claim to the infirmary. That is clear, and I was also confirmed by the Deputy Minister of Education legislation after the meeting of the Health Committee on the second day when epidemiologists themselves said and re-evaluated the situation that even for those risk groups, where they actually forbade that children should not go to primary school, that they re-evaluated it and there is no risk group anymore, i.e. and the primary schools after 25. 5. In fact, everyone can visit in the first degree and is only at the primary school to allow groups of 15 children. This means that we are dealing with the fact that Mrs Valachová has given, that there would actually be an obstacle, that if primary and kindergarten schools open up, then the possibility that there must be an obstacle and that the infirmary will be entitled to the parents who will not send the children. I guess that's one thing. We say we want it to be aligned to 25. 5. but there was no such amendment here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u43	Thank you. I will point out that amendments can still be tabled. Now I'm just going to repeat the order of the speakers because I'm asking questions. So, first of all, factual points. This is Mrs Pekarová, Mr Kasal, Mr Bělobrádek. After that, I have the priority rights, once again, to Mrs Pekarová and President Stanjura. And then, by electronic means, this is Mrs Richterová, and then they are ordinary entries from the post, which was Mrs Richterová before the expensive good, Mr Bendl, Mr Bělobrádek and Mr Jurečka. We will continue, now Mrs Pekarová, with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u44	I feel like it looks on the one hand that there's actually only one side of the butter on its head, and it often seems in the debate that it's Mrs. Valachová, that is, ČSSD. But she's not, she's right in her own way. Because if you read the justification he's making there, you can't disagree with the first sentence. Given the not quite clear conditions for the participation of pupils in schools and children in kindergartens and so on. So the butter on the head here really has both sides of the dispute that we're watching here today. And we of the opposition could have fun with that, but I really don't find it funny. Because there's really a mess going on here about how it's supposed to work with the kindergartens, how it's supposed to work in schools. If the students are only a few hours a day in school, then the parent often has no choice but to still deal with the babysitting. And by the time the teams, for example, don't work in primary schools in the first degree, then there really aren't many who can go back to work. But please, nicely, let's not put this here with an adhesive to this law, which concerns something completely different. First, find a consensus on a proper solution that will be discussed, we will have a clear basis for this, including financial implications, and make good on the confusion that still exists in schools, and where school directors simply do not know how to do it. And they've been saying it very clearly and publicly for a long time. So let's deal with the causes, and then we can deal with the consequences. Now, please, there's no point. Now it's too soon to deal with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u45	Thank you. Now, Mr. Kasal. Mr Kasal withdraws. Mr Bělobrádek, with a factual remark. He's not present. He asked me, so I think I'm gonna skip him at this point. And we are getting, with priority rights, as I was saying, Mrs Pekarová, she is downloading it because she has already spoken. I think President Stanjura, with priority rights, has also downloaded it. So we're getting to Mrs Richterová, who's registered properly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u46	Thank you for the floor. Rather, I want to raise a few questions that the founders are asking, and then also the parents, and to show that we, as the opposition, if we are not bound by these agreements, would rather welcome a substantive answer to how this is to be dealt with from the government's point of view. That from a parent's point of view, it's just very unclear and unpredictable right now. And the infirmary - actually, now the school principals have the opportunity to open the facility and there is actually a definition of child risk groups that are not recommended to come back. But the set rules for the sickbay's payout seem to be these situations where, based on the recommendations, they're risky family members or the child itself is risky if he doesn't get in, so it's not adjusted how it's going to be with the infirmary. And this is probably the poodle core. And I, as a person who wishes a material solution, what with the fact that it is not recommended that children go to that kindergarten, but at the same time it is not resolved for parents to get sick care, cares how the government wants to deal with it. And I think it would be great if we could accept something today that would give these parents certainty and predictability. Maybe the question is, shouldn't it just be the end of May? That's what I'm looking at now for social democracy rounds to see if it's due until the end of June. But this question is absolutely crucial. Still, with the kindergarten, my parents turn to me. It may seem like a little something to some of you, but there are a lot of kids who have allergies. And once the kids are allergic and have this spring allergic cold, the kindergarten won't want to accept them again. And the parents won't be entitled to the infirmary. It's possible that in practice it won't be like that, I see colleagues shaking their heads, but so far it is. That fear of allergic rhinitis also applies to concern that it will not be possible to use the infirmary any longer. Many kindergartens make very, very sure that the children who are there are perfectly, completely healthy, without any speeches. And it's hard to distinguish an allergic cold from a minor cold. [[16.50 hours]] And I have one more question about the coordination. Again, from the point of view of functioning, it is necessary to ask how it is arranged with the Ministry of Education, whether compulsory school attendance will be officially restored, or whether it will not be the official opening of schools. And this coordination, precisely because of the possibility of asking for the infirmary, is unclear to us, I think, much of the House. And that's what we'd all like answers for. [[Noise in the hall.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u47	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for more peace. And I apologize to President Jurečka for missing him with priority rights. Mr Bělobrádek, who we skipped earlier, came forward with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry, but I'm a little confused. And I would ask if anyone could answer my question from the voters, because they heard that the case that they were living in a home with someone who was a risky person means in one home with grandparents, so that they read somewhere that they weren't going to kindergarten, unless they sent the baby to the nursery for reasons that they didn't endanger their grandparents, so that they had to sign some kindergarten statements and that they weren't going to lose the infirmary. The way I understand it here, it's not like that. And just as kindergartens are opened, so are these people who, for these reasons, would protect a risky person in a common home, so they'll just lose their infirmary. Whether that's true or not, because the question is quite specific. And if that's not the case, then I'm just letting these people know that it's going to be a really big problem because they're going to be in front of two variants: either they're going to lose the infirmary, or, of course, they can put some risk on members in the common home who are at risk, whether they're seniors or immunosuppressed or something like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u49	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I will actually try to respond to Mr Bělobrádek through the President. We don't even have a secretary here who's presenting this bill, not even her acting petitioner, who's not here, and the government's here, except for the Secretary of Finance. There's not even an education minister who comes here just like when he accidentally hits here. The fact is, it's just true. During the debate on the Social Committee, the Minister was unable to answer these questions. If he doesn't answer to the MPs, what are these people supposed to do about it? The result is that they're supposed to rely on the worst option, which means when someone opens the nursery, which is really helping people who don't have a babysitter and are already completely hopeless, I'm getting information, I'm really in a hopeless situation because they're supposed to go to work, and now they don't know what to do with it. So when someone gets there that some of these kids are sick, they have to go to the doctor and go to a proper hospital. The system can do it. And they should go this way like they're normal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u51	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka, whom I skipped before. We are still in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u52	Thank you. As we disagreed here this morning with Mrs Valachová on the topic of mathematics graduation, I confess that now that I have had the opportunity to read her amendment, to read the reasoning where the first sentence really responds to what is being said here, that in fact these things are not clarified, neither is the procedure and the strategy of opening and releasing measures that will touch school facilities, so it simply gives me the logic to give space to parents who, for serious reasons, decide to leave the child at home, which, of course, will bear certain demands and costs for them from the point of view of teaching etc. But if your parents make that choice, for example, because they're worried about a person close to home who's in the same household, so that, for example, there's no threat to the health of that person, then it gives me the logic to give some guarantee and freedom to parents in that decision so that the infirmary is here by the end of June, so that they can take advantage of it. Now I'm gonna talk from the other side again like the father of five kids. Frankly, after all this time, when I'm watching it at home, we're gonna be very happy when those kids can go to school. I don't know a lot of parents who would look forward to the fact that at the moment those measures become loose, they'd want to have the chicken under them. These people need to rest, and most of them are looking forward to getting back to work. This is a real situation. But there's probably a group here, I think it's going to be a very small group of parents who have some objective reasons and they're worried and they're scared. And I think we should understand that and make it happen. I understand what's going on here, and I've heard it very often from the opposition in the last two and a half years - it's a sticker, it's not perfectly good and so on. But this time, the people who look at us, and the parents who look up to this, I think they have legitimate concerns. And we should do our best if we can, and it's the will to meet it. So for my part - this proposal, although it is not entirely for the ideal House of Press and legislative proposals, I am prepared to support for the reasons that I have justified here and which are partly described in this reasoning. It won't slow down the opening of preschools. The Authority's decision will not limit it. It won't have any other effects on opening first and second degrees. But it's just a certain insurance policy and a certain guarantee for those parents who are seriously concerned and have a serious reason to do so. It's not that your parents are happy to be home by the end of June at an 80 percent nursing home. I confess, I don't know that kind of parent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u53	Thank you. And if no one else is reporting to the debate at this time, I believe that everyone has already spoken. And if no one's volunteering, I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words, first from the plaintiff. Minister, are you interested in the final word in the general debate? If that's the case, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u54	Thank you. All I'm going to say is that the subject that I took up has grown quite a bit during the debate. I can only say here that what I have discussed and what I have interpreted here has been an agreement on Mr Excellent and its extension for three months. I cannot answer Mr Nacher's question if the three months are enough. That's too difficult for me. But at least now I can support the extension for three months here. I think that quite clearly, and it is also in agreement with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The second debate that has developed here doesn't make me feel like I have the mandate of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But since I'm a member of the government, I dare say my position. I happened to be at an epidemiologist debate today - now I'm saying it for myself, I'm not saying it for almost any resort, I'm saying it for myself, I just have an opinion about it. I participated in a debate with epidemiologists who told me that when they looked away from the case in Britain, their findings today are such that epidemics spread at least among children, and even the risk of transmitting an epidemic from children to parents is quite low. So the concerns that were here that the children would be spreading the disease among their parents are not confirmed. I'm telling you. Of course, take it with a spare, because that's what the experts would have to tell you. But that's why I'm here to confess, which is why I'm confronted with this as a new topic that I wasn't prepared for, that I don't feel happy today, and I'm sorry that I'm here in a dispute with my colleague, to extend the infirmary so flat-out until the end of June, because I'm in favour of calming the situation in the country, normalizing it, and so we're trying to get people back to normal, like work and so on. And now this step here seems to me to be against the information that we have, which we have said to ourselves, that we are really going to be discussing tomorrow at the government, because even from what you hear from me, it is obvious that the situation is not so clear. And it seems to me that it really requires a debate. [[17,00 hours]] So now I'm just saying it for myself. This isn't something I had an arrangement with someone. I've been confronted with this here and I'm telling you my position here because I happen to be the minister who's presenting it, so take it with a spare. But based on the knowledge I have, I'm skeptical to keep the kids home. I think we should reduce the level of fear between people. My biggest concern today is that we're gonna release, but people are gonna be scared all the time. You know I'm a culture, and I'm afraid we're gonna open a facility, but people aren't gonna go back out there just out of fear. I'd like to see an atmosphere spread here in this country that says yes, follow the hygiene rules, be responsible and conscientious, but at the same time don't worry about the space that opens. Remember that in China today they have such a situation that they are coming back to life, but everything is going to be at 90 percent, even the economy, which means that it is a danger that we are going to come back, but the company will still not function and will still be economically very lossy. So what's threatening us is the fear that we're gonna be afraid of today. I'm not telling people to take risks, but we should act as rationally as possible, and we shouldn't strengthen the "stay at home just in case" thing. We really need to get the country back to life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u55	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the final word after the general debate. He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u56	I'm not performing anymore. I'm just gonna fix myself. I've been notified that I've been talking about parenting, and it's infirmary. That's how I fix my speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u57	Thank you. And so I am now opening up a detailed debate in which I have two applications at the moment. First of all, Mr Výborný, then Mrs Valachová. Mr. Výborný? [[The MP isn't in the hall.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u58	I'm so sorry. I've spoken to the Minister. I hereby declare to the amendment that is in the system under No. 5135. I have already made my reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u59	Yes, it is. And now, please, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u60	I sign up for Amendment No 5206. I presented my reasons in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-008-374.u61	Thank you. And if no one else is reporting for a detailed debate at this time, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask again if there is interest in the final words after a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I will end the second reading of this proposal. As is customary at the moment, I am interrupting the discussion of this third reading point after all other third readings. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur. Let's move on to the next point, which is
