ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u1	14. Proposal for a Law on special rules for the exercise of the profession of a doctor and non-medical health profession by persons who have received vocational training in a Member State other than the European Union, in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic /German press 819/2/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 819/3. I welcome Senator Alena Dernerová among us, and I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the Government's proposal for a law on special rules for the exercise of the profession of a doctor and non-medical health profession by persons who have received vocational training in a non-EU Member State in relation to emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, which is submitted to the House after the Senate rejected it. This proposal responds to the current situation caused by the pandemic disease COVID-19 and its aim is to provide sufficient medical personnel at a time when, during the time of emergency and during the several months immediately following its occupation, part of them cannot perform them mainly due to the placing in quarantine. Both during the previous discussion of the proposal in the Chamber of Deputies and during the Senate negotiations, the main topic of the discussion was the question of sufficient qualifications for persons who could be called to hospitals in an emergency situation. To this end, I would like to point out that the proposed bill, which provides for hospitals and social services providers the opportunity to call for the provision of health care as well as persons who have not yet passed a probation exam, came first of all on the initiative of certain hospitals. It is based on the intention of hospitals to employ specific doctors or non-medical health professionals who have already worked for them in the field of professional practice. That means, they know them, they're not anyone who's completely new to them. There should not be an influx of new, undeveloped forces from abroad, but of already proven workers with whom health service providers have experience and who have proven themselves. During the examination of the draft law, the question of performing activities under the so-called direct professional guidance of a doctor with specialised competence in the relevant field or in the case of non-medical professionals under the direct management of a non-medical health professional who is competent for the sole pursuit of the profession was also discussed in relation to the qualifications of such workers. Both mentioned institutes Act No.95/2004 Coll. and Act No. 96/2004 Coll. know and regulate the manner and conditions for their implementation. In the case of physicians, direct professional guidance is used during professional practice, which is part of an aprobation examination. For non-medical professionals, direct guidance is used not only during the course of practice, which is part of the preparation for an aprobation test, but also normally in the performance of certain statutory professions or under a statutory period of time. Their application should not cause any problems in practice. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the bill has been rejected by the Senate, I believe that, in view of the above, you will support it in today's discussion, because it is indeed a law that is made at the request and at the initiative of hospitals that are most affected by pandemics and concerns about patients with this disease. In this regard, I think they know what they are doing, and we should allow them to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u3	That was the Minister. And now I beg Senator Alena Dernerová to take the floor. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the Government, honourable Members, yes, the Senate rejected this bill because it sees it as necessary. Primarily rejected by both the guarantee committee and the constitutionally-legal committee, and actually this position, with which the Senate then identified itself. And I'll tell you the reasons why we're doing this. This bill seems redundant to us. It is excessive because already in the existing law it is possible for the Ministry of Health to make an exception for those doctors who did not pass the probation exam as such and therefore they can actually carry out the activity. It is true that this bill is actually changing into the fact that the provider is the one that actually asks, or will allow the person who does not have an adaptation to work. Who's the one who doesn't have an application? So that's why we're saying the law is problematic. In fact, all those who want to work with us are supposed to have a job. It's a kind of testimonial, so if they can actually work without basically having the direct professional guidance over them, with the fact that if I don't have the application, I really have to have someone to supervise me. This means that in a given situation, two doctors do one job. I can't imagine these unaccompromised doctors should be in intensive care units, infectious wards, and replacing fully erudized Czech doctors. So that's another reason we said this law was wrong. The other thing is that there is often a problem with understanding. And if we have covid, it's important to deal with these people. And if these people do not speak Czech well, because it is not now a condition of the exam from the Czech language, then there is a bad history and can be a bad diagnosis. So that's one file of the thing. They say these people can't actually have a probation exam here. But they can fold it if they want to. Because on the IPVZ website, schoolboy, there is actually the fact that a probation exam can take place from 4 May to 15 June. We're about a year ago, and something very, actually, I'd say, has diluted the demands for these doctors. This means these doctors who pass the exam do not actually have to pass the exam all in one day. They may repeat this aprobation test four times. And it doesn't actually include a test from the Czech language. This means that actually those who are to stay in the Czech Republic are probably those who did not pass the probation exam or applied for it. So here, there's just a certain pocket, a certain penzum, which, actually, for those doctors who can't work independently, and these doctors can't actually get into high-level workplaces. Another reason is that if we are to say that we are dealing with the covid crisis now, and actually this law is supposed to last for an emergency, an emergency plus three more months, so if the emergency lasts ten more days, I think that the adoption of this law is completely unnecessary. And I don't know why they should be here for another three months. So there were many reasons why the Senate said that this law was not necessary in the context of the covid crisis. So we proposed to reject the law, which also happened. So that's it for now, I'm happy to answer the questions that will arise here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u5	Well, thank you, Senator. And now, before I open the debate, I will ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Vlastimil Válek, wants to comment on the Senate resolution. Interested? [[Mr. Wark responds from the diaper, off the microphone.]] Yeah, I didn't hear you just now. That's it for the debate. Not until the debate, okay. But you could've done it now, but you could've done it in the debate. There. So I'm opening the debate. And Mr Kubíček, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I would like to propose a reduction in the Member's speech for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u7	Okay. Then we'll vote on your proposal. Is Mr Krejza reporting for a factual remark? Yeah, no, that was a mistake, okay. It wouldn't have happened now anyway. So, are we all here? So we have here Mr Kubíček's proposal to reduce speaking time to five minutes. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 61, 174 Members registered, for 103, against 20. The motion was accepted. Speaking time will be limited in the debate to five minutes, of course, for those who do not have priority rights. So Mrs Karla Maříková is the first to speak and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last meeting, I made a motion to dismiss this bill, which unfortunately did not pass. I agree with the senator here that this law is completely redundant. The Act proposes that the health care provider may, in a basic employment relationship, employ a doctor to pursue a medical profession under the professional supervision of a person who has received vocational training in a Member State other than the European Union without having a recognised professional capacity to pursue a medical profession. This already works in practice. A person who obtains vocational training in a Member State other than the European Union must already work under professional supervision. In many cases, there is a different level of education in individual countries or the ignorance of the Czech language or even both. Even the Czech Medical Chamber has drawn attention to this problem for a long time. None of us would like to be treated by a person who is not qualified, and what is more, he may not even talk to the patient. I'm saying to a person on purpose because he's not a qualified doctor. If it is true, as it was said at the last meeting, that this law is prepared for those who have received their education outside the countries of the European Union and are currently working under professional supervision, but, given the state of emergency, they cannot pass the exam and it would mean their return to their homeland, then I do not understand why Mr Válek's amendment was not supported, which defined that this person must prove that it is being applied for a probation test. Then, of course, these arguments that were raised here would come to me logically. But accepting foreign doctors only out of personnel emergencies, if they still have to work under professional supervision, doesn't solve anything. Rather, he will burden the work of doctors, because he will still have to supervise this person with further professional supervision. Our medical students also cannot work as qualified doctors, but they can do other medical work. Then why should foreign doctors have an exception without professional competence here? I understand Mr Kasal's argument, which was made here last time, but in the law I do not have the specifics dealt with by Mr Válek's amendment, and in this form the law seems very general to me and I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u9	I will now ask Mr Bohuslav Svoboda to speak, and then Mr Petr Třešňák will prepare himself. Ambassador, your five minutes. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this law, in addition to being unacceptable in my opinion, is indeed a legislative pasculi. He works with concepts that don't exist, and he says things that aren't true. First, it is not true that the vast majority of the chiefs ask that this be allowed. This is not really true, rather the opposite. Secondly, any foreigner who has graduated from outside the European Union can work with us. The condition is one, he has to present a degree from a medical school that will be recognized by some of our universities, any of them. And if he's got that diploma, then he can ask to get in somewhere. I've been dean and dean for years, so I know what that means. We had applicants who submitted a diploma that the university didn't apply for. We had applicants that she said had never studied with her. We had applicants when we asked for a curriculum that they were studying at that faculty, and we found out that it wasn't medicine at all. For example, they don't have surgeons and other surgical disciplines simply because they're some kind of institute that raises such special doctors. And that's a huge problem, and that's not what this law is about. He says we'll take everyone. And we guarantee that the doctor who works in the Czech Republic is a doctor who corresponds with his qualifications to what the whole of Europe requires. Therefore, our doctors can also go abroad freely and do no further tests. Next, the law says he can work. Our students, our graduates who enter, have to work and after some time fold the so-called tribe where they get higher qualifications, and the difference between the tribe and the tribe is only what extent of activity they can do. These activities are defined, the period of education is defined and how the education is obtained is defined. There's nothing here. This is where we accept him, and he can do anything from the start? When we talk about the need for this because of a covidal infection - do you know what hospitals need? They need people to do triage. It means picking those who are to be examined and who are to go to the infectious ward or to the normal. You can't do a triage if you can't speak your language, so you can't talk to these people. I know that very well when I started in Italy, what it's like to talk to a patient. And they also need to know something about the medicine so they know why they can't let him in the normal department. This has nothing to do with whether or not the department needs people. These are people who are extra because they're a covidic infection. All those who want to work could work, just have to submit to the fact that after some time they will be composing the tribe and then they will pass the test. And they don't want that! Here's a verbis expressis that says they're the people who asked for the exam and for some reason didn't do it. And I'm asking why. [[He speaks very strongly, emotionally.]] They didn't make a deal, they don't speak Czech? Or were they so bad they couldn't do it? That they didn't have that knowledge? If you go to America, you'll be composing the entire medicine again before it's allowed. And we're gonna let people out here that we don't even know if they have the qualifications, because all we've said is that they have the appropriate education. How do you find out, Minister? How do you know they have it? It's nowhere. You're introducing a new concept that didn't exist, which you call "professional leadership." This is completely contrary to what is in our law. The doctor who works works either under professional supervision or supervision. It's a concept that defines what you have to do when you have to be there. But expert supervision, what is it? Do I have to be present at the workplace when I'm looking out for someone or can I be home in bed? Expert supervision is a concept of completely vague and confusing and not acceptable. Of course, I understand the problem, but again I say, anyone who wants to get in, get out of the European Union. But he has to submit to the fact that he has to complete his education. And I can only promise all my patients that there will never be a doctor who will refuse to educate himself at the clinic I have the honour to run! Lifelong learning is the most important condition of a medical profession!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u11	Mr Petr Třešňák will now appear and Mr Vlastimil Válek will be the last to prepare. Ambassador, please have your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u12	Good afternoon, Mr President, fellow Members. We have been discussing this proposal here for a long time since he was here for the first time in the House, so today I will try to take it very briefly. In fact, there were already many Members, even from the government benches, who pointed out his inconclusiveness. And I myself was reading an accompanying resolution here, which would facilitate the administration associated with education and young Czech doctors, even in a slightly different context, not only from those third countries, as originally proposed. In fact, we have even witnessed such an opinional gunfight among Members of the government benches. And hopefully my colleague Brázdil won't be upset when I'm quoting the analogy he used here last time, the ultralight pilot, who they wouldn't let fly with a big boeing, either. And even if it was quite a nice analogy, I expected a more detailed description of the particular condition, whether the boeing was on the ground, whether it was flying or falling. And maybe it doesn't matter if we refer to individual health care providers or if we mean the whole Czech health care sector. In fact, the Ministry should have given the answer, and then we can act accordingly and possibly approve the legislation that will save it. I'm sorry to generalize the debate, but I don't think we heard the specific numbers last time. So how many doctors without accommodations are involved, how many providers would be involved in such a change and so on. And while those reasons are partly understandable in this crisis, the personnel situation of some providers cannot be resolved by the rape of Law 95, and therefore I am not surprised that the Senate rejected it. [[15.10 hours]] And even if, in substance, I agree with the original proposal that came out of the House, I consider it legislative chaos because it concerns only this emergency situation. So I'm asking if we're approving legislation for eight days - and I'm not counting the President's signature yet - or we're assuming an extension of this emergency situation. I'm saying this because if this emergency is over and a few months later a new one is announced, the law won't actually apply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u13	I will now ask Mr Vlastimil Válek to speak. And so far, you're the last logged in. So, your five minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that I am really glad that the Minister has passed the law to Parliament, because it is a problem that we have been discussing in the health committee for a long time. And the law pointed to a few things. The first thing he pointed out was that in a situation where doctors were banned from vacation, when everyone is on brands, when everyone is working full-time, so the paramedics are so few that we have to employ gastarbeiters who have not been able to do a rehearsal. This is the first thing that shows what Czech health care looks like with the number of doctors. The second thing that the law has shown, it has shown that the probation exam is probably not well set up and the Ministry of Health facilities, which means IDVZP, the Institute for Further Education for Health Workers, does not work as it should. Because if the exam was well set up, those doctors who are top experts from countries outside the European Union, where they work as specialists in the long term, can't have a problem with a probation exam. Because what is a probation test? It's actually a stateswoman in the Czech language. Until they pass the probation exam -- and it didn't come out here, I'll say it twice in a row -- they're on the level of Czech medics! They don't have statesmen! Nostrification is equal to a recognised university education. An aprobation test equals a stateswoman. Then these doctors do the tests. That means they don't do a test - equals a probation test. An aprobation test equals a stateswoman. What's the problem? The problem is that the Ministry of Health - and this is not the fault of this minister, but of all previous ministers - has never drowned to prepare a quality dictionary for these doctors, quality courses of professional, professional Czech, because we are talking mainly about doctors from Russian-speaking countries. Because which one of you knows what a whistle is? Who among you who know perfectly Slovak knows how to say Slovak stomach or appendix or gallbladder? And, of course, these doctors don't know professional English like that. And that's why they have a problem with the aprobation exam. Okay, let's just say I take it that some indefinite number of foreigners who work here have been repeatedly fired from the probation exam. Because watch out! The Institute for Further Education is rehearsing in spring terms! Dates are written and they can sign up in spring dates, they can log in in in autumn dates, they have nothing to do with the exam, the dates are written, they are normally tried. This is how these doctors will save Czech health care. Well, I'd like to hear how many doctors there are, what expertise they're working in, what hospitals they're in. This question repeatedly falls on the Health Committee and repeatedly we do not have an answer. We don't have an overview of these doctors, how many are there, where they work, how long are they preparing for the probation exam - year, year, two, three, five, ten, fifteen, twenty? How long? What makes them do it? What would be constructive from my point of view? It would be constructive that students of medical faculties who were to pass the exam after the tribe in the autumn and did not do it because the workplace did not have accreditation and because the exams were not discussed, who were to do it in the spring and did not do it again, because the accreditations are still not completed and they are not being tried, so that we can recognise them all in a legislative way, so that without having to have the exam after the tribe, they will have this exam, and on the basis of the practice in hospitals under the guidance of the supervisor - and thus we will have several thousand doctors who will have a trial after the tribe and will be able to work independently, because they have competence and can work independently after the tribe. Yes, I would consider that a systemic measure. But not the adoption of this law, I'm sorry. I don't just want available, only available health care, only health-paid, but I want good health, too, and this really isn't the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u15	So I have one more application, Mr David Kasal reporting. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have five minutes, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to what has been said here, and I will speak to all my colleagues more or less, I will probably start from the back. On the one hand, we're only trying to talk here for eight days, but if you've read it, it's eight days plus three months. And it's just a space for these people to sign up for rehearsals. And here we hear from our fellow Member, Mr Válek, through Mr President - we speak that we want to have good doctors, our own, so we will forgive them the test. Will we forgive them from the trial of the tribe and let them heal? You contradict each other in what you say. Here it is merely said that workers who are at least two years in those facilities and who could not pass the tests in March or April are extending the period by three months. That's all there is. Nothing more, nothing less. And from the point of view of this, when I hear here that we're gonna let them in for treatment on ICUs and covides, no one's talking about it. These are people who treat just non-covid patients, they're on surgical income, they work under the supervision of their trainers. So I don't understand any of the colleagues here saying things that aren't true at all. And the proposal was also dealt with by representatives of cities and municipalities, because some hospitals may simply stop working at this point, or one of their departments. Who's gonna take responsibility? This isn't about giving someone some excuse, whether it's for a Czech doctor who's being educated or foreign, but it's about allowing both parts to pass the exams. That's all this is about, what's going on here. And on the other hand, no one knows how the crisis at the time it was proposed would take - and nobody cared that someone from the fifth or sixth grade would go to treat patients for ICU because the situation would require it and we would have to set it up like this. And here you're scaring that doctors who have worked for a while - I can talk about the ones I know, maybe they know the language right now, some of them couldn't log in because they got pregnant, and all you're talking about is that they can't speak the language or that they've volunteered several times and didn't pass the exam. Nobody knows. I've informed myself at the Ministry of At least an estimate of how many doctors are involved. It's very hard to determine, because the doctors are not only in hospitals. The estimate is around 400 people at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u17	Now, Mrs Věra Procházková, I have no further application here. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u18	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. I'm so offended by the way you're talking about people. None of you, and especially any of you doctors who work in faculty hospitals, and you don't know what's going on in county hospitals, have talked to these people. It's about people who have been here for a long time, these people speak perfectly Czech, I work with them, I know very well about them. And these people need to be able to pass these exams here, they have limited time to be here, to have work visas, etc. It's very difficult for them to get an extension after that. So these guys are the ones that are involved, and they're very helpful to us in these hospitals. These people will represent those highly erudized our doctors who will go to those highly needed and erudized workplaces. These people will be working on the standard boarding schools we're unfortunately missing. And unfortunately, it's also because those doctors are concentrated in those faculty hospitals in big cities and they just don't go to those counties. So don't take them away from us, leave them here. It's only three months so they can pass the exams. Most of them really have it in them. And those who couldn't do it, they're long gone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u19	Another point of fact is made by Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and Mrs Karla Maříková will apply to the case. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u20	Thank you. I hate to do this, but I have to turn to my previous speaker because she wasn't telling the truth. The law isn't about employing someone who's already employed. The law says we'll employ anyone who has a medical education from another country. I've already received three requests from graduates since this was said that they wanted to join us. It's not about those who work at all. It's the ones who want to come. [[Noise in the hall.]] Nothing else. Those who work, if they're as capable as you say, I've met them, I've already got one who's gone into private practice, they're people normally educated, they normally do, like our people have to make their way in the world. But those who want this are the ones who work and are not good. I say again, the quality of these faculties is very different. And if we allow anyone who's a graduate to get in, I don't want to name it, the school, but I know it, we have their curriculum, we know what they teach there, and we know what they go there. And we're gonna let them work with our patients normally? Don't be mad at me. I can't do that. The law doesn't say it's about people who work! The law says that anyone who isn't from the European Union can get into a hospital with us! That's all he says. There's nothing else. Read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u21	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now speak to Mrs Karla Maříková, who will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll speak to both of my previous speakers, although I don't see Dr. Kasal here anymore. Those who work under professional supervision don't really need this law anymore, because it works normally in practice. Those who are not enrolled in the exam can apply to it, and there is nothing to prevent it, and if they are applied to the exam and could not pass it because of this emergency situation, then the amendment of Professor Válek could have been accepted and we did not have to deal with it here. I would also like to respond to my previous speaker, Dr. Procházková. I'm a little sorry because she's my countrywoman. I don't want to say that all foreign doctors who want to pass the exam here and work under professional supervision are of poor quality. But I'm sure he'll be right that the level of health in the Karlovy Vary Region isn't the best. A lot of patients are complaining about the quality of these foreign doctors. I myself can tell the experience that a doctor from Ukraine, a candidate of science, asks a nurse about the difference between antibiotics and chemotherapy. [[Noise in the hall.]] Or a doctor who worked here for 16 years didn't pass the probation exam many times, and the EKG read the patient's style - you will live - and other doctors. Please don't be mad at me if this guy doesn't pass the probation exam several times in a row, there's no point in him continuing to work here. That's not helping. I mean, he's gotta have that professional supervision anyway, and he's not gonna represent the qualified doctor here at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u23	I ask for peace of mind in the Chamber, because at the end I almost did not hear what she was saying. So now I'm going to read the order of factual remarks, we have three, and I'm going to ask you to calm down in the Chamber for real. Still Mr. Výborný - a moment, I'll read it. Mr Vlastimil Válek will be the first to speak, Mr Stanislav Blaha will be the second to be prepared, Mr David Kasal is signed up, and Mr Marek Výborný is the fourth to be prepared. I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber and ask Mr Vlastimil Válek to speak for two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u24	Thank you. It's becoming very emotional, and maybe for nothing. I understand that we can have different opinions, but I'd be very careful if anyone blamed me for not having a degree. If I'm doing something very carefully, I'm preparing myself carefully for any performance I have here. That is, unlike the Minister, and unlike Mr Kasal, Mr President, I can tell you precisely by saying precisely, namely, radiologists who are in the Czech Republic, where the workplaces are, who are not from the Czech Republic, who are waiting for the probation exam, when they will do the exam, when they were fired, etc. I can tell you about any of these radiologists, because I've really spent weeks doing this. That's how I'd like to keep track of all the doctors. How is it that we do not know what foreigners are working in the Czech Republic without an aprobation exam, on which workplaces and what are they doing there? It's not possible for this to be serious! And the aprobation exam was rehearsed last fall, this fall, it's rehearsed in the spring, in the fall, it's rehearsed all the time. Look at the schoolboy website, how many of these terms are there. That means, the real problem is that these people - and I'm not saying they're not good experts and they don't understand medicine, but they just can't pass the probation exam. So let's talk about changing the probation exam, but let's not look for exceptions that don't really have a ratio. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u25	I would just like to point out that there was a gentleman's agreement that there would be no factual remarks. However, I understand that it is a punch like hit, because either five minutes in the general debate or two minutes in fact, so paradoxically, the factual one is shorter, so that's why I didn't intervene in some way. However, we have here Mr Stanislav Blaha, who wished... no. And now, then, Mr David Kasal wishes? You don't. And then there's Mr. Marek Výborný. So I'll leave you to the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u26	Mr Vice-President, I, too, did not refer to a factual point, but to a debate. [[- Yes.]] I feel like this whole debate is pretty pointless. The law is not really about solving a probation exam in the Czech Republic. This law addresses the current situation that arose in the context of the current crisis. That's the whole thing, which is why the Minister and the Ministry of Health gave the law in a state of legislative emergency. And it is also a response to the request of the Union of Towns and Towns and Mayors of the really district towns where these county hospitals have the problem, because if they lost these doctors from abroad outside the European Union, some departments would actually have to close down. That's all. And when your colleague Svoboda talks about the wording of this law here, the law clearly states that he can, not that he has to, so I assume that all hospital directors are sane and know which colleague they need there, and they need to keep it, because now in these months, the colleague has been working from I can't see to see to it that the hospital is running at all, and that's probably why he couldn't go to the probation exam, whose deadlines were announced at a time when there was no crisis. That's all. And I'm assuming that all the hospital directors are able to assess whether the doctor can work there, he can do it, regardless of whether he's passed the probation exam now or whether he's going to do it after three months. By the way, that's why I proposed the amendment that didn't pass to extend the period to six months to make it through the fall deadline. I suppose if he didn't pass, and if we pass the law, the Ministry will be able to initiate those terms so that the hospitals don't really lose the doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u27	I've got two applications for de facto, but since there was a gentleman's agreement, not a de facto one, I'll put you in the general debate, if that's okay with you. It's a small formality, but you have three more minutes to go. So, Mrs Karla Maříková in the general debate, so don't report to me in de facto because it was the agreement, and report to me in general, okay? Normal. Five minutes before the general debate and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take a minute. I'm just going to briefly respond to my previous speaker, who said here that if those hospitals were to lose these foreign doctors who didn't actually have a probation exam, then some of the departments would have to close down. In that case, my previous speaker here admits that these doctors work independently without acquiescence exams! Because if they worked under expert supervision, those departments wouldn't have to close, because they wouldn't really be there as well as working alone, covering up some services. So if the department had to close without these doctors, you're publicly admitting that they're working separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u29	I now have two more applications for the general debate, and it is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and Mr David Kasal will be prepared for the general debate. Ambassador, you have five minutes to perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u30	Thank you. If what is said here was true is that they are doctors who work well in this department and only within this time could there be an a probation test, it would be easy to say that during the crisis, the probation exams are not being performed and will be postponed until normal periods. I would understand that, and with my teeth clenched, I would vote for it. But because I know that's not the point at all, it's about hiring some other people to cover up, but unprofessionally to cover up, so it's just different. Since this has been announced, I have already received three requests from graduates from outside the European Union for admission to my clinic, and I have the same information from a number of my colleagues who run different workplaces. No, it's not about those at all, but you say it yourself. It's about those who are already there! [[15.30 hours]] So the law doesn't solve the situation, it doesn't say. It says that any graduate from outside Europe can enter. It's not at all that they're some who work great from see to see and just couldn't do aprobation because they're not. She is, they could have made her. But I would take it all, please, but it's not true, because the law is built on accepting new people. Not for anyone to stay here and keep working. If you read it - David, you get the same opinion, it's really not there, and the law allows it, and they know it. And they're taking advantage of it immediately. And I'm afraid it really means we're gonna be in big trouble.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u31	I will now request the speech of Mr David Kasal, so far the last application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u32	Thank you for the floor, I will answer my colleague Maříková through Mr President. My colleague, it's very simple. We're talking about a time of crisis again. So it's easy to count. It's not about this guy doing alone and unsupervised. But specifically, if I speak from my department, I have ten doctors. I had to split it up into Team A and Team B. Team A is working, that's five doctors, team B is home. And at that point, you're counting every doctor who's there, so you just need to get one or two out, and at that point you're not able to cover both the services and the department's activities. That's why every leg that's there is important. So it's not about the doctors working alone, but it's about being able to fulfill the role of epidemiology and health, which is given there. And a second comment on the esteemed colleague of the Professor of Svoboda. I would like to state that in § 36 para. 5 is precisely defined by direct professional leadership, which is in Law 95. So it is not true that there is no direct professional leadership in the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u33	So please, I have now been warned that the vote was once five minutes each. So I gave space to factual notes, which are still possible. On the other hand, the gentlemen's agreement was that factual remarks were not. So I'm getting a little bit into the loop here. And I've got some other MPs registered here. So I would really like to ask you as far as possible, I do not completely forbid you to perform here - so Mr. Vlastimil Válek has applied to the facts, let's do it. There was a gentleman's agreement that they wouldn't, on the other hand, you wouldn't be able to get off after that. And then the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura applied. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u34	For the last time and for the last time. Dates of the 2020 aprobation test which were not cancelled: 14 January, 15 January, 16 January, 11 February, 12 February, 13 February, 17 March, 18 March, 19 March, 14 April, 15 April, 16 April, 11 May, 12 May - so I can continue until the end of the year. That's information from the IPVZ website. Then maybe it's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u35	I will now give the chair of the ODS club to Zbyňka Stanjur, who has no limited time because he is with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u36	It's okay. I won't need five minutes. I'd like to ask the Minister. Never mind, I can still make it. Minister, here in the debate, you and many other colleagues always say: This is true during the crisis, three months after the end of the crisis. Can you tell us on the microphone how it's defined in the law? When will the crisis end? What is it during the crisis? That's a general term. Who's going to say that the crisis is over and running for some time? How do we know? Is it an emergency? That means if it ends next week, that's the end of the crisis? And it's not during the crisis anymore? Do we understand each other? In general here you can say during the crisis, it is necessary, crisis measures. How is that defined? I don't want to enter into a professional debate right now, whether it's a good thing or a bad thing. This is where I trust my colleague, Professor Svoboda. So I'm going to vote on his expert recommendation. However, I am interested, as Members, in how the crisis, the time of the crisis, the end of the crisis is defined in this law. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u37	Now, of course, I have no application, so now whether anyone else wishes to respond in the general debate. I don't see anybody, so I'm done with the general debate. And now I'm asking if you're interested in the final word - Minister and Senator? So what order are you going to go in? The minister said he'd go first. The senator pointed at him, okay. Now, Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate was excited, I don't think it's even appropriate, I think there's more to this law than reality. I will answer Prime Minister Stanjur. The law clearly defines that the regime we are talking about applies to the period of emergency and three months after that. That's how it's defined, it's clearly written in the law, so there's nothing to argue about. And this really only applies to this period because it can happen that in some hospitals COVID-19 disease will spread to medical and non-medical personnel, where he remembers doctors, and people will simply have to quarantine them, and that way some department may fall out. And I see no reason why we could not in this regard allow for this defined period to doctors from third countries who have nostrified diplomas from their schools, i.e. indeed, there is at least some basic condition so that they cannot work under direct professional guidance for this defined period, which is clearly defined in the law, as Mr Kasal said. So it is not true, it is not true that the law does not define direct professional leadership, as Mr Svoboda said. In Law 95/2004 Coll. direct professional guidance is defined in § 36 para. 5. That's it, you can all read it in the law. So when it says something new is being introduced, it's not true, it's defined in the law, and they're really doctors that the provider knows. The primary responsibility is the care provider at the hospital. So I really don't think any hospital would risk putting somebody in there who didn't know how to do it, and it's gonna cause damage to the patients. Because, ultimately, both civil and criminal liability would be up to the provider. So let's have a little faith in those providers. Of course, we must have information about this. The law assumes that the Ministry of Health, the competent regional authority, the Czech Medical Chamber gets information, it is clearly given there, so everyone will have information that the person works there this way after the defined period, and I really do not see any major problem in this for the threat to Czech health. We're not talking about a permanent situation for years in advance, some kind of damage to patients. We are talking about an exceptional situation for this time as I have talked about it, and it will not really lead to a deterioration in the quality of Czech health care or to any major problems. And this is really based on the direct initiative of hospitals. For example, a hospital in Bulovka, which is the largest workplace that cares for the most patients tested positively on COVID-19, and there is, of course, the greatest risk. So I really think there's a lot more hype going on around here than the law deserves. It is an emergency situation, an extraordinary law, a time-limited law, and so I ask that it be approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u39	Now, Senator Alena Dernerová will take the floor. Senator, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u40	Thank you, Mr President. That's exactly what this debate has been about in our Senate on covid, pandemic, epidemic, solving our health care problems. We're not dealing with an epidemic here by law. We are dealing with the problems of our health care, which simply has personnel deficiencies. And that's wrong. We've put a law in an emergency that has nothing to do with it. I mean, the emergency will take a week and then plus three months. Why three months plus? I see one problem, that's speculation. So those who help us can stay here, maybe they won't have the application. So those who made it are going to be on the same level as those who didn't? As regards the aprobation exams, by 20 February of this year was the end of applications for the spring period. That's what I read on the schoolteacher's website. The trials are really taking place despite this epidemic situation. Now I've looked at it again. There'll be sanitary measures. So it's exam four. 5 to 15. The 6th will run. In the meantime, other candidates for a probation exam may sign up for the autumn deadline, which will also take place. This means that these doctors could check in at any time and go to the probation exam. I understand that our health services are in very poor health. But I'd like to read you another letter from the White House, completely fresh. "Mr President, I inform you that, on the basis of the decision of the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and following the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mrs XX, born XX, will perform the work of a doctor under the supervision of the Bílovecké hospital." That means that now, without it being approved, there's already some information about the doctor who didn't work there or before. I just don't know. I see the problem. And I think one of the reasons they said we were overloaded in our hospitals was because the hospitals stood for five weeks. All the performances that have been planned have been canceled, and the hospital run is about to start. I'll give you one more piece of information. A respected colleague in the Senate says: but we should approve the law because I lack doctors there and one of them is in a medical profession, and I need to get him into that medical profession. I can't do that either! Tell me, a fellow Member has already said that, but those people who don't have the education to heal can treat patients. [[to:]] I mean, the problem is going to go to the doctor who's doing direct professional guidance. He'll be punished! Not the one that damaged it. That means, I appeal to common sense, to lucidity. And please, let's take care of the health services somewhere else. But this law is not part of the epidemic situation itself. So please support the Senate bill. Thank you. And one more thing. I have nothing against Ukrainian doctors or doctors from third countries if they have an application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u41	We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on special rules for the exercise of the profession of a doctor and non-medical health profession by persons who have received vocational education in a Member State other than the European Union, in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, according to the House of Press 819/2.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 62, 183 Members registered, for 94, against 46. I note that the bill has not been adopted. [[A commotion in the hall.]] I'm done discussing this press. Let's keep going. Now, before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, as amended, House Press 829, shortened negotiations, we would in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. Mr. Kubíček. Do you have any procedurals? Or the vote? Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u42	Since there was an agreement that we would continue this meeting in a different number, I would give you five minutes to stabilize the numbers, because we said that we would vote 200 in the Senate's doorstep and continue with the reduced number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u43	A member of the ANO Club is therefore requesting a five-minute break as vice-chairman of the ANO Club - I understand that you are asking for a meeting of the ANO Group. Do I get it? No. [[Mr Stanjur:]] Wait a minute. I don't suppose you're going to speak on behalf of the Yes House of Deputies, are you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u44	No, no, no. Mr Vice-President, we would like you to call a five-minute recess as chairman in the House's meeting. In the meantime, club presidents will organise the numbers to be, so that we continue with the agreed number, so that there is no confusion and the feeling that someone votes extra before the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u45	Yes. I understand that. I'm putting out a five-minute break and I'll meet you here at 15.50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u46	Five minutes have passed, we've got 15.50, so we're good to go. Before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, as amended, House Press 829, shortened negotiations, of course I will unsubscribe you all. Is that a request for this? No. Do you want to step in now? Okay. I'll check you all out, sign up again with your voting cards, because we've changed the numbers. The President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura is entitled to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u47	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, I have a request for you and other management. Since we're in half the number, I think we're going to work in the regime, too, that many will be in offices, so that there'll be enough room before the vote to reach it. It's just a request for you and all the other management meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-005-014.u48	Yes. It is the agreement that was already 14 days ago, so I will say, and I think that all the following presidents will also respect that before the vote we will make some time so that you can all come. So now we're going to continue. I already checked you out. Please sign up with all your voting cards - the one who stays in the O.R. for the agreed kvorum. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] Before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance - I ask you to calm down in the hall, now the Members are calling on me because they do not hear - as amended, House press 829, shortened negotiations, we would be under § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening the debate. I don't see anybody, so if no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. We will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, as amended, House Press 829, in a shortened hearing." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 63 registered 92 Members, for 85, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
