ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-002-006.u1	6. The draft law amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on public health insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 1080/2/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 1080/3. I welcome Senator Jitka Chalánková among us and ask that the Minister of Health Jan Blatný speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-002-006.u2	Mr President - - - ladies and gentlemen, allow me to re-defend the law establishing a legal framework for the reimbursement of the so-called. point-of-care antigen tests performed to determine the presence of SARS-CoV2 antigen. [[The President of the Silent Member shall be the bell.]] This law was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies with regard to emergency measures by the Ministry of Health, which requires selected social and health service providers to carry out preventive examinations by means of these tests for their employees and patients, respectively. clients of social services. Since I have already presented this proposal in detail, I will be brief in the description and I will rather focus on explaining some of the facts referred to in the Senate debate. The amendment submitted is proposed to comply with § 17 para. For the purposes of the remuneration, 7 of the Public Health Insurance Act has been supplemented by the case where the health insurance undertaking, on the basis of a contract concluded with a person entitled to distribute medical resources, pays the person antigen tests and their distribution in order to ensure the claims of insured persons. I stress that the implementation of the tests is already a service covered by § 30 para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Health insurance companies therefore have an obligation to provide and pay for testing for insured persons. That's valid anyway. In a standard situation, and this is the fundamental difference, but each provider concerned would be forced to take tests at its own expense and subsequently, including the examination, to report them to the relevant health insurance undertaking. Only then would the test be reimbursed back to him. The main problem in this process, and this needs to be realised, is the huge number of providers who are affected by the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health, many of whom have no experience in purchasing medical material or medical facilities that would have a standard relationship with health insurance companies. In this case, the standard procedure previously described seems to be useless and many providers, and I would like to stress this, would not be able to carry out mandatory testing at all, in other words the health of the risk groups, in this case seniors and, of course, employees of these facilities. Therefore, the direct reimbursement of the tests and the related obligation of the distributor to deliver them to the providers concerned seemed to be clearly more effective, which, and I would like to emphasise again, is also demonstrated by the fact that the testing is running, will be completed in a short period of time, and I have no information on more substantial delays. So the way it's set, it's effective, it works, and the seniors could be protested by this measure. And it needs to be realized that such testing can and will probably be needed in the future. As regards the procedure for selecting the distributor, because there I perceived the Senate's main comment, the fastest possible solution was sought at that time as part of the announcement of emergency status. Therefore, for a very practical reason, the existing contracts, which had already been concluded a long time ago between health insurance companies and Avenier, were used. This is not dealt with by this law either. The law doesn't specify who to be the distributor in any way. In order to limit the proposed solution as much as possible, the draft law applies only to the purchase of antigen testing tests, it cannot be used for anything else. Only for testing COVID-19 disease. For this reason, it is certainly not excluded that distributors will compete in the future, and this will certainly be the right thing to do. However, given the need to deliver tests in the order of weeks, this was not possible in the first round. I'm sure we'll all remember how short the time to perform this whole exercise was. [[15.10 hours]] I would also like to comment on the complicated situation of some social service providers who have not yet had experience in reporting health insurance companies. Since the test is supplied for the purpose of performing health care, it is necessary to report correctly, otherwise it could not be covered by public health insurance at all. However, by simplifying normal reporting, we have dealt intensively with health insurance companies and all insurance companies have promised to create a simple or simplified electronic reporting procedure so that it is accessible to those who do not have experience with standard reporting for the test carried out. In the event of any problems, it is then, of course, possible to apply directly to insurance companies. It should be stressed that the proposed legislation itself does not directly affect the public budget, since it only technically regulates the remuneration mechanism for ensuring these tests and distributing them. The impact on the public health insurance system results from the very need to provide antigen tests, and here, I believe, no one is questioning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the solution to the situation must be taken as soon as possible because emergency measures for testing clients and employees are already effective, so it is necessary to adopt this proposal in its version previously adopted, i.e. the original House of Deputies, and not to reject it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-002-006.u3	Thank you. I'll ask Senator Jitka Chalánková to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-002-006.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interpret the Senate's position here. The Senate press was marked No. 1, so it's your 1080 parliamentary press. This draft amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, Senate Press No. 1, the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate forwarded on 13 November 2020. The aim of the draft law is to complement the mechanism of payment of the POC antigen tests used for the purpose of determining the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antigen, following extraordinary measures. I will shorten my report here, because the Minister has introduced you to the content of this entire press for the second time. The Senate has decided to reject this motion. The grounds for refusal are briefly as follows: The proposed law appears to be completely redundant. In the field of health and social services, there is a functional and sufficient system for the distribution or supply of medicinal products and medical material, which the tests in question fully correspond to. Supply happens daily and in a considerable range of items and numbers of packages without problems. It can guarantee enough tests in places where it is needed, by default, not by this purpose change. There is no reason why test sets could not be delivered exactly like any other medical material. In addition, there are more approved tests on the market and the moment of competition can therefore have favourable economic consequences. What did the Senate debate say? First of all, we were sorry that this press and this intention were not subject to an assessment of the effects of the regulation of this proposal, which means that it was not subject to an assessment of this impact in public budgets. We are in a situation where we are asked to approve something like the state budget without knowing the figures that this state budget contains. So if the State is ordering this mandatory testing, I believe, and the Senate has therefore given it the truth that the State should also ensure and pay for it. This bill intensifies itself into insurance plans for health insurance companies. The Minister is right that the impact on the state budget may not be detectable, but the ingence of insurance plans for health insurance companies can be very extensive. If there has been talk of crisis laws in the field of public health protection, there is no talk of the term distributor at all, there is only talk of the concept of health care provider. The distributor is the whole chain link between the manufacturer and then the pharmacy and the user of this drug, which is basically only intended to distribute this product, to buy and deliver it, maybe not to deliver it, but that is the end of its obligation. I was looking in the law of authorisation, implementing regulation, but I did not find such a thing and we have only paragraph (e) of this whole amendment, which we have before us in general form for the future. No one knows what will happen with the tests next, who will apply them and who will guarantee the quality of the tests, who will evaluate them, who and how they pay for them. These are quite standard mechanisms that allow the possibility of checking and reviewing payments. There was talk in the Senate about the need to set rules, which means either conditions as equal as possible, or at least some, not only to give someone a blank check, which could also allow the health insurance reserves to be exhausted, when there could be no money to treat other serious diseases. Directly in the press, as he came from the Chamber of Deputies, it is also said that this press contains corruption potential. We didn't like that very much either. If the social services that provide health services under special law for special contracts do not know how to report, these are indeed arguments of another category and second order. I am also available if you would like to ask more in detail what happened in the Senate, however, the Senate has largely proposed rejecting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-002-006.u5	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee Hana Aulická Jírovcová does not wish to speak, she is not in the hall at the moment. I open the debate and ask who is interested in speaking on this point. I look around in the hall, I don't see anyone. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Is there any interest in final words? Not the Minister, not the Senator. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. I will wait here for a moment so that all Members who have been in the foyer have the opportunity to take their place... There's an interest in signing off. I'm gonna ask you all to re-enlist with your ID cards. Kvorum 101 is already set on the information board. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, pursuant to House Press 1080/2.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 17, 170 Members registered, for 115, against 16. I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you all, and I am done discussing this point. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Opening point
