ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labor Code, as amended, and some other related laws /house print 689/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. [[He's not present. The Minister of Culture of the Zaoralek goes to the counter.]] Of course, I don't have your credentials here that you can present it as Madam Secretary. I don't have it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u2	Yes, yes. Vice-President Schillerová told me that she had supplied this written confirmation. So I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u3	I don't have it here, so wait a minute. Well, I'm gonna have to... I'm gonna put out a minute. I'm gonna make a phone call because I need this place written down. That's not oral, so I'm gonna ask the organizational department to give it to me. So let's take a minute and take a break by 14.32. [[The hearing was suspended from 14.31 to 14.32 hours.]] There. I was right, we didn't actually receive a written mandate from the House's leadership so that, on behalf of Minister Maláčová, he could basically introduce the law to Minister Zaorálek, so I'm declaring a break until 14.35... [[Conjecture off the microphone.]] I don't have it here. And the organizational department told me they were gonna find out and prove to me that they needed two or three minutes. So we're gonna put it in 14.35, or the point would have to fall. [[The hearing was suspended from 14.33 to 14.35 hours.]] The time has passed, I have already received the mandate, so under the authority of the Government the bill submitted will state on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please take the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, once again allow me to apologize to Mrs Maláčová, who I spoke to, and unfortunately she could not come to work today, so I apologize to her, I spoke to her and agreed to present here, during the second reading, a draft of the law which she wanted to present here yesterday, and as has already been confirmed here, I also have a written mandate from Mrs Schillerová, Vice-President of the Government, to represent Minister Maláčová. So let me remind you at least the basic facts about this second reading. On 24 January, the Minister presented to you the Government Bill, which was already on 24 January, amending Act No. 262. In the meantime, the government bill has been discussed. It was discussed in detail in the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy and was also discussed in the Economic Committee. Let me just remind you that the substance of the proposal and such brief content was that it responds to the need to reduce administrative complexity. There was a translation part concerning the issue of posting employees under the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2018, the transposition period is here until 30 July 2020, and it also reflects the latest case law of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic and at the same time of the EU Court of Justice. What changes are relevant here. Well, here's what I'd mention. In this proposal, there's a new shared job institute. Then there is a conceptual change of holiday, a change in compensation for damage and non-property damage and a refinement of delivery arrangements. And then there are other points. It is a refinement of the transition of rights and obligations from employment relations. Another area that is being regulated here is the deepening of prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Finally, a reduction in the administrative burden of issuing employment certificates. So I would like to ask you, for my colleague Maláčová, to support this law, with which the social partners also agreed. And that's probably all at the beginning of my second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u5	That was the Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 689/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Roman Sklenák, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I can therefore tell you that the Committee on Social Policy, as a guarantee committee, discussed this bill at its meeting on 15 April and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill and, at the same time, recommended that it adopt an amendment to this proposal. This results from the fact that the first reading took place on 24 January. We then extended the deadline for discussion to 80 days, and then the situation in which we are still in today, so we come to second reading after more than four months, and therefore it is necessary to adjust the effectiveness of this law. So the amendment to the Committee on Social Policy was precisely about replacing the proposed threefold divided effectiveness, namely to 1. 7, 30. 7, and to 1. 1. 2021, only double efficiency, dated 30. 7. 2020 with the exception of the provisions listed, which would not take effect until 1 January next year. Since, following this amendment, it is necessary to reduce this threefold text in Section 363 of the Labour Code, then in a detailed debate, I will apply to the legislative technical amendment that proposes this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u7	I now ask the rapporteur of the economic committee, Mr Jan Bauer, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Otherwise, Mr Member, you are also enrolled in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u8	Dear Vice-President, dear ladies and gentlemen, very briefly indeed. At its meeting on 5 February, the Economic Committee interrupted the discussion of this House's press, setting deadlines for possible amendments. Thanks to what has happened and what we are all dealing with, among other things, this House's press has no longer dealt with the economic committee, nor has it been discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u9	I'm sure you can stay at the table, because I'm opening a general debate and you're back on the list. So Mr. Jan Bauer gets the floor, respectively. He will continue. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u10	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, all I have to do is smile when I see the speaker, Minister Zaorálek, behind the counter, because we've been having heated discussions over the years about foreign policy, and now you're an expert on culture, and now we're discussing social matters. Which I know, of course, is not your fault, but I certainly hope that no one here is going to ask you any questions either in this discussion or in the press that will concern the protection of employers, because I'm sure you're in a difficult position. I have read what I said about this bill during the first reading, and I have to say that I am not changing what has been said here from my mouth. I would like to introduce you to only three amendments in this way. All these three amendments concern the adaptation of a shared job. The first document is introduced in the system under number 5147 in the first Article I, point 66, § 317 para. the last sentence of paragraph 1 is deleted; The point is that it is laid down that the total working hours of staff may not exceed the prescribed weekly working hours. In the absence of this limitation proposed by Section 317, a shared place could be more attractive for employers, as it would allow them to deal with a much larger number of cases, e.g. the operation of receptions from 7 to 20 hours, which cannot be dealt with through one job. So this is House document number 5147. I have also inserted into the House document system, which is listed under number 5148. In the first part of Article I, point 66, § 317 para. 4 amends and reads as follows: The employer may order the employee to represent an absentee at the same shared post, unless otherwise agreed by the employee in the agreement referred to in Section 1. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 4, according to which approval is needed for each particular staff member concerned, would be more flexible for employers if they could order the staff or agree on the rules of the crowd. In practice, it is often the longer term absence of employees, e.g. due to illness or the Czech Republic, which needs to be solved and found a replacement for the employee. So that's the other one. And the last amendment, which is introduced into the system under number 5149, is set out here in the first article I, point 66, § 317 para. 5 the text "with 15 days notice beginning on the day on which the notice was delivered to the other Party" shall be replaced by "with a monthly notice beginning on the first day of the calendar month following receipt of the notice to the other Contracting Party." So these are the three amendments that I will, of course, sign up to in the context of a detailed discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u11	I now call on Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková to speak and Mr Stanislav Grospič will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u12	Mr President, Madam Members, Mr Minister, because the first reading took place in January, as the rapporteur informed us, I am only allowing myself a few more general words on the Labour Code. We have heard here this morning when discussing electronic records of sales, how to appreciate entrepreneurs, because they are the active ones, and how the state doesn't really want anything from them. I am very sorry that it sounds from the opposition that only entrepreneurs and self-employed workers are working slowly to be ashamed that they are mere employees and therefore completely incapable. You know, I was taught at home to appreciate every job and every hardworking person, and, whatever the case, the employee is always in a weaker position with the employer, because he's kind of addicted to it. Therefore, civilised countries have labour laws that lay down the rules of conduct between an employee and an employer. Therefore, they have an important role to play in the companies and organisations of the trade unions that defend the interests of employees. Social democracies have also always stood on the side of employees throughout their history. That's not a declaration. That's just the way it is. The specific programme at the moment is Antivirus, where the State pays companies wages of up to 80 per cent on condition that employees are not to be discharged, with the sole aim of maintaining jobs. And it's in favour of employers too, it's in favour of companies, because enlightened and long-term prosperous companies are the ones that value and motivate their employees. Ford and Bata knew that. Every good personalist or manager knows that. What is most valuable in every company and in every organization is people, employees, if you want a technical term, human resources. When companies lose, they'll be hard to replace. It will be difficult to start new activities without qualified employees. I just can't. But it is important for employees to have a choice in how best to reconcile their job position and family life. This is what the present amendment to the Labour Code is aimed at, among other things, as presented to us by the Minister. For me, it would be ideal if a full-time job was six hours a day for a full wage, a 30-hour working week. I'm afraid that's not possible at the moment. I therefore do not propose an amendment to this effect yet. However, greater flexibility in working time is a solution for reconciliation of family and working life. I therefore welcome very much the families with children, but also the older generation, people of higher ages, but also people with any disability the possibility of flexibility in the form of so-called shared jobs. But I say for myself that I will monitor very closely how companies will use this option and whether employees will have good and appropriate conditions to use this new institute, which introduces the Labour Code. The regulation of accidents at work and occupational diseases is also essential in this proposal. I therefore intercede in favour of approving the proposal as submitted by Minister Maláčová, with the amendment referred to by the rapporteur here. This amendment to the Labour Code is a modern standard of labour law needed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u13	So that was Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. And now, Mr Stanislav Grospič will appear and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, I would like to say here that not only social democracy, but also KSČM places emphasis on employees, especially in addition to self-employed, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Because they bring the added value, and they carry the deposit to the value making that then fills our society. And they are, to some extent, dependent, that is, in a position that is not entirely adequate, equal, and their position is regulated by the Labour Code. When the agreement took place in 2006 just before the elections on the new Labour Code number 262, we considered it a great success after a number of years when individual employees' rights, but, on the other hand, employers, for example, were modified, tripped or modified in various ways, not compatible, not suited to new, changing social relationships, did not reflect reality in society. We're standing here today in front of an amendment to the Labour Code, which has this devil's hoove in it. On the one hand, he says it's purely a transposition standard. Yes, it was also pre-negotiated, and so it sounds in the so-called gentlemen's agreement, which they concluded among themselves within the tripartite of employers, employees on behalf of the trade union headquarters of ČMKOS and on the other hand the government of the Czech Republic. But the problem is something else. The actual amendment to the Labour Code, which has been presented to the Chamber of Deputies and discussed in several committees of the Chamber of Deputies, from which one committee did not adopt a resolution on it, an economic one, contains certain moments that are very fundamental. First of all, it is a complete change in the calculation of the calendar leave, which, although very favorable at first sight, means how many hours I worked, so I will have an hourly period of the calendar leave. In sum, it'll be the four weeks. I note that, as KSČM at the time before the crisis, we were a coronavirus and that the economic crisis was likely to become a reality, suggesting that the demand to reduce working time could arise while maintaining the same amount of earnings by establishing it, legalized the fifth week as the basic terms of the calendar leave, but the proposal then states that, in fact, according to the individual assignments, the employee would be reduced after hours, and it is also included in the explanatory report, on the calendar leave. So it will actually be defended by a certain clock and on full time even by more than one whole day of calendar leave. And I think that's a major problem. The second problem that the amendment is hiding is a shared job. Of course, for a shared job, which is a specific job performance that is not suitable for all professions, there would, of course, be a calendar holiday according to the hours worked. But for other cases where a shared place is not used, nor can it be applied according to the nature of the work, it will be a big problem. I was talking about it here at first reading. I don't want to talk about it now. I have not included any amendment, either, because I think that the amendment, as it is tabled, is wrong in this context. A transposition amendment should have been submitted, as agreed, with European law and should not have gone into the very essence of such fundamental changes in the calculation of the calendar leave and the implementation of the shared job, because even single mothers, mothers caring for young children, are already allowed by the current legislation to be met by the employer. That's not the only reason it's mentioned and quoted in the Labour Code. At present, we do not propose rejecting this amendment so that colleagues from social democracy are not concerned, but we will not support this bill at this stage unless amendments are read or there is any change by the government. Because we think that, especially as a result of this crisis that we are experiencing right now, coronaviruses, and the approaching economic crisis, this amendment will be completely out of effect in this way, and in some time, we will be faced with the question of what next amendment to adopt in order to protect employees, to address their position and prevent increases in unemployment. This amendment and the preferences of short-term and other forms of engagement will not prevent this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u15	I will now ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský to speak and Mr Jan Farský will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u16	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to comment on the proposed amendment to the Labour Code for the KDU-ČSL club. In the broader sense, I have already spoken here at first reading, so I will not address all aspects of this amendment. I would go back to what we were discussing here, too, and that is that this amendment does not affect certain problematic areas of the Labour Code, and I am just saying that I do not want to shoot into it now, because we all know that the amendment, among other things, was created on the basis of a fragile agreement on tripartite, and I respect that. Nevertheless, I will return to one area because I think it has been discussed here in the House for a very long time and it really deserves a solution. We have discussed this many times already in the last parliamentary term, then some partial changes have been made at the beginning of this parliamentary term. At the time we worked on it with our colleague Patrik Nacher and then passed the version from the MPSV workshop. The problem is compensation for loss of earnings, i.e. the problems of people who are not guilty of their own fault, but because of an accident at work or recognised occupational disease, they are in a situation where they are not able to earn as they were before and are dependent, among other things, on the so-called rent. She's a little bit of a decoy, that is, to compensate for the loss of earnings. The problem of compensation for earnings is a very complicated area and is one of the most complicated in terms of the Labour Code. In the meantime, we have actually completed a number of negotiations with our colleague Josef Hájek and some others since the approved small amendment at the beginning of this parliamentary term, and then in the final phase with our colleague Lukáš Černohorský. There were a lot of negotiations not only here in the House, but also within the regions. And it was mainly with the representatives of the renters from that professional group of miners, which is the largest among the 15,000 so-called renters. It is the strongest group, but we have also met with a number of other professions, such as the former heavy industry workers, the chemical industry and some other professions. And these citizens, as I have already said, who, not by their own fault, have come to that position of the so-called renter, are actually following some serious problems in the application of the Labour Code. [[15.00 hours]] We certainly are not able to accommodate everyone in this change, nor is the ambition. But we wanted to solve at least one, probably the most fundamental problem that the law of work in calculating compensation for earnings, the so-called rent, has, and that is the principle of so-called stop earnings. When a person who used to make a decent living, such as the mining profession, gets into a situation where he is no longer able to perform the original profession, he always ends up in incapacity at the beginning. After that often long-term incapacity for work, most of these people have some residual working capacity, return to work, and then earn some wages, which is significantly lower than their original salary. When calculating the so-called rent, he then approaches the formula, where the amount he earns in his first job is deducted from his original salary before the accident at work. And this amount is the so-called profit stop. And for a number of these workers, it happens over time - or it is not always due to the deterioration of their health, but often also to circumstances, high unemployment and so on, so they are forced either to return to the Labour Office or to accept employment that is less respected. And that's when the big discrimination happens, and the big injustice that the sum, the deduction, the so-called profit stop, is still subtracting from them, even though they're really earning, like, two, three thousand less. What does this lead to? These people are very demotivated and they think very much about whether it is worth working at all - and I want to stress that a large part of them wants to work - or stay long-term registered to the employment office. That is why we come up with the idea, and with Mr Hájek and the experts, we have prepared an amendment to remove the institute of the so-called stop profit from the Labour Code. In order to actually calculate the real rent, the real compensation for the loss of earnings, it is always calculated with the real wage that the person earns at the moment. We think that this is a correction of the situation, that this will be a very good signal for those people, that the state wants them, and it must also be said that this will also be the elimination of some discrimination within the professions, because, for example, this institute is not in the Armed Forces Act. That's not where the so-called profit mark doesn't apply. And that is nothing at all against members of the security forces, but I think that all professional groups need to be treated equally. So I am calling on the amendment that we made with my colleague Hájek, and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. We would very much like you to support this rather simple amendment, which will, however, be of great importance to those affected groups of citizens, in the third reading. I think it's gonna be a signal for these people to work to work legally. Because, of course, the side effect of the profit footprint is the fact that some of these people are working black -- some of them aren't even hiding it -- because they have nothing left. And I think they'll be very happy to work, and they'll be happy to be involved, albeit with reduced working skills, and that it'll be a signal to them in the future, that they want them. Thank you for your attention and for your support for this proposal, which I will then apply to at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u17	Thank you. That was Mr Vít Kaňkovský and Mr Jan Farský will now speak and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u18	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to an amendment which has such a peculiarity that it has been supported by all the clubs represented in the Chamber of Deputies. So I think that's why he deserves some attention. The proposal focuses primarily on volunteering, namely volunteering in the field of children and youth. It is already stated in the Labour Code today that if someone spends all year long with children and young people, they can have up to three weeks of unpaid leave from their employer. We adapt this concept and propose that if someone spends year-round time with children and youth - and here we come to change and we extend it to athletes who haven't been there - they will have a week, say, for the need for youth management, whether it's at sports camps or some camps, refunded from the state. Otherwise, we call it, in a nutshell, you'll actually get a five-day vacation for that year. In order not to be impeccable, the proposal is designed to cover only those - whether they are camps or sports camps - organisations that have worked for at least five years and are registered in the register of legal and natural persons, and working with children and youth is their main activity so that it cannot be used and circumvented. When we discussed this, we came to the conclusion that this could affect up to 200,000 children who go to camps and various sports camps, and up to 4,000 events. Budgetary costs - I will not deny here - of course they are. But we have limited them by saying that the compensation itself will be up to the maximum amount of the average wage that the State will provide, and this implies that the cost would be about 50 million a year in the maximum version. Which, at first glance, looks like a big number, but if you look at scouts only, they bring the value of one billion crowns to our society every year in their volunteer work. So it's more of a symbolic thank you. And I admit that whoever approached me with this was the athletes who are dealing with the biggest problem today, perhaps not so much the financial one for the amateur and the basic sports, athletes, associates, but they solve the problem that they are all quite busy, that during the year they can still spend time on those afternoon trainings - of course voluntarily, and that is also the condition of this proposal to concern only volunteers, not those who live in these professions - but what they miss is time. At a time when during the year they are to devote themselves to spring, autumn, sports concentration, when they are to attend some summer camp during the holidays, they get into a situation where they are not limited to money, but that, in addition to the family they want to spend time, they have a lot of trouble to devote more time to this youth. And we're actually giving them the most valuable thing we can give them, and that's time. That is why I think it has also been possible to persuade representatives of all the Members' clubs in the House to add their signature to this proposal, and this proposal is therefore made. It may appear to be given twice, but there is a difference. I will not report to both press in a detailed debate, but only one. I'll tell the difference now. After we submitted this, I also discussed it with tripartite representatives, and they had two very specific comments. First, to limit that week for a calendar year, and second, from the point of view of the budget, so that the effectiveness of this measure is only from 1. 1. 2021. This is therefore only an adjustment between these two amendments. Thank you for your attention and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for a specific amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u19	I'm the last one to sign up for Mrs Olga Richterová, so I'm gonna ask her to perform. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. On the Labour Code, we have one amendment for the Pirates Club, which concerns automatic valorisation of minimum wage. It's a topic that, of course, isn't just ours, it's been discussed here for a long time. And as has already been said, we know that there is an agreement that the government coalition does not want to support this now. But right now is the time when automatic valorisation of the minimum wage could give the necessary stability and certainty and prevent possible squabbling in the coming years, which, given what has happened in those two years before, can otherwise be expected. The specific amendment is recorded in the system, we discussed it on the committee as well, and I would just like to summarize that we consider it irresponsible to all labour market actors, when the minimum wage is decided in our country sometimes in December and then the increase in the minimum and subsequent wage guaranteed will take place in January of the following year. It's extremely difficult to plan with this. We would be in favour of the procedure that we know from other laws, when we follow indicators over the past period, for example the end of the previous year, and we would be in favour, in particular, of predictableness and stability. I'm sorry there was no consensus on this between important social partners. And I'm sorry that the circus around who raises the minimum wage will probably continue. In particular, our proposal envisaged an increase which would count as 0.46 times the average gross monthly nominal wage converted into fully employed national economy for the previous calendar year. And that is the main thing that we would like - security, stability for both employers and employees to increase. And the second thing that would increase this, we believe, is the culture of our political debate, because instead of discussing increasing figures, specific numbers, we could focus on debates on systemic and strategic changes. The second thing I will say will be just a comment, namely a comment on § 320, which is proposed to amend it to include a new point (b) concerning measures to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. And I just want to point out that in our country, even though employers make contributions to the safety of work, it is not clear where the money goes, virtually. it's that it dissolves into a budget. So I welcome the fact that what employers have done for their people in the area of prevention of accidents at work, in the area of prevention of occupational diseases, should now be more clearly allocated, and in the future, I wish that the rehabilitation component, which our state does not know very well, should be increased. To add this kind of rehabilitation to prevention. This is an area that I will also focus on in the future, but as the main thing I have put forward before you with an amendment to automatically valorise the minimum wage, so that we avoid long and unfortunately, in my opinion, only uncertainty bringing about debates in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u21	Mr Josef Hájek has now come to my attention from the point of view in the general debate. Last application so far. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be brief. I'm gonna follow up on the words of my colleague Kaňkovský, who's here to introduce you to the reasons why we want to stick a finger in pandořina's Labor Code locker. There may have been an agreement, but we have been dealing with this issue for several years. My colleague Kaňkovský said that these are some 15,000 people who receive this compensation for losing their earnings. And there are 4,000 former miners among them, so I'm sure the acting minister here knows this issue, too, because he's from our region. And these miners, the former miners, of course, solve a number of problems. My colleague Kaňkovský had no room to mention all of them, but we were discussing health controls when these miners were forced to take their precautionary examinations every year, and if they found out they had high blood pressure or diabetes, they wanted to take the rents away from them. That means, the miners were afraid, of course, you're going to the doctor, I have white coat syndrome, too, when I see a doctor, I have a blood pressure of 160 over 100, so that's a natural reaction. And we sort of figured out with the Ministry of Industry and Trade that these people have been walking every two years. And my colleague Kaňkovský continues to deal with this with doctors, so that the tables and listed general diseases are a little bit - I don't want to say the word to be diluted, but to take account of the fact that today and diabetes we have top athletes, that it is already a disease that can be treated relatively well. As far as the miners are concerned, there is one crucial thing, such that the miner renter can be at the employment office de facto until he's 65 years old. At the age of 65, his replacement is over and he should retire. But he's not going to retire if he's not working 35 years these days. That means, although the man says "I will not live," a number of miners will live to see, and then he falls into the social network. That means I've been looking for an instrument along with them that would allow these miners to work. And they want to work. And there was this situation, to give an example, a miner had a rent of 30,000, went to be a driver, made $20,000. Unfortunately, there was a crisis, they put him in the employment office, he found a new place, but for 14 grand. Well, they didn't give him an extra 30,000 minus 14, but they gave him an extra 30,000 minus 20,000, which means the earnings he made at the old job before he joined the employment office. And, of course, these people see it as injustice because it's not his fault. It's not his fault he got fired, he got into the employment office. And then he's got two choices, either being at the employment office, where he's getting his minimum wage and he's sure about it, they're taking down his minimum wage. But what did we do? We have done this, which is the positive step that we have raised the minimum wage from 8,000 to 14 600 today in two parliamentary periods. That means, we're hurting these people, a small group, because if you count the difference of 6600 times 12 months, we're already getting to the amount of some 60 grand, of course, the compensations are also upgraded, but take it I'm only talking in numbers here. We have tried to address this issue in the past period. We dealt with this in the framework of the amendment to Act 181/2018, which was intended to address the fact that we would be tearing down the rent to the miners or renters at the level of the first entry, respectively. in the amount of minimum wage valid at the time they entered the employment office. Of course, insurance companies explained it in their own way, and it actually only concerns the miners who have spent their entire lives at the employment office. We didn't even want to motivate him like that. So I don't want to stall any longer. Anyway, even then, in the meantime, between second and third reading, I will try to discuss with your representatives from the different clubs, because it is a really non-political topic, it applies generally to 15,000 people, but especially to those 4,000 miners who had the profits higher. And our goal and our effort is really to get these people into the labour market so that they can work so that they can meet the old-age pension criteria and be valid members of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u23	Thank you. And now, on the point of fact, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. And so far, this is the last application for a general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u24	Have a good afternoon again. I'm just gonna pick up a colleague of Hájek. Thank you so much for adding that to my performance. He just ate the part of the problems that remain. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, we tried to fix a minimum wage with my colleague Nacher. It was possible, even after some peripetia, then it was finally from the MPSV workshop. But unfortunately, it really happened that it only concerns those who are still in the employment office. The next step wasn't going to work. And then we really dealt with Mr. Hájek, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the state enterprise DIAMO, Kooperativa, the Czech Insurance Company. It didn't quite come to an agreement. So this remains a task for the future. But there's also the problem with the so-called general diseases. This is again a big handicap of the current Labour Code, because not only the miners, but also other disabilities are afraid to go to preventive examinations, so that somehow the so-called general disease is not detected and at that moment they have not lost the entire rent. So here I am turning not to the full-time minister, but to the representative of the government coalition. Indeed, the system of accidents at work or compensation for accidents at work and occupational diseases is such a complicated issue of the current Labour Code that it would require a more comprehensive amendment and possibly a separate law. And we are ready across the political spectrum, which means colleagues Hájek, Nacher, colleague of Černohorskýý and certainly others, to cooperate on this. But it needs to be approached. And it's already been mentioned for at least two parliamentary periods. So much for my appeal towards the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u25	Now, let me see if there is another interested party in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Minister Zaorálek? [[No.]] Mr. Newsletter Roman Sklenák? Yes. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u26	Thank you. Just a few words for the debate. I was talking about it, I guess, at the first reading, when I reminded myself of the experience from the last term when we were discussing the amendment to the Labour Code, and it turned out that in the end we were here in They did not get to the House at all for the third reading, because there was no elementary consensus on the form of what the novel should look like. And it is precisely this experience that everyone has come to this year's discussion that they have actually tried to reach agreement. This was achieved at least at the level of the social partners and the material submitted by the government was agreed by both employers' representatives and employees' representatives. Unfortunately, the amendments presented by colleagues here do not meet the parameter of the agreement between the social partners, and that is where I see a problem. For example, I personally agree with my colleague Mrs Richterová that the minimum wage should be determined by an automatic valorisation mechanism. But unfortunately, it's the coefficient and the form of the vending machine that doesn't match. Unfortunately, neither does the agreement on the proposal of a colleague of Farský and others. So I am merely reminding this fact here and saying that, indeed, more than ever, just after the experience of the last parliamentary term, we are trying to find a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u27	I am now initiating a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club, applied for the floor with priority rights and Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll take the relay from the rapporteur. I will ask him to support my amendment so that we have a broad consensus. It is quite simple, de facto I could also say that we could discuss this in a state of legislative emergency, that it has something to do with the COVID pandemic. Without a doubt, jobs will be lost. The state is trying to do much to minimize it. But for those who can't get a job on the main job, there are actually two other options left, and that is the agreement to carry out the work and the agreement to work. I think that even employers will be careful in the coming months to create new jobs thanks to the economic situation. And my amendment is intended to give a chance to those who do not get a job on the main job. I propose a relatively simple thing, which means that in Section 75, which defines the agreement on carrying out work, we raise the annual limit, which is now in the law of 300 hours, by 50 per cent to 450 hours. If you take that at the same time, the reward must not exceed CZK 10,000 a month, no matter how many hours it is, except for the annual one, so if we take that amount, it's 120,000 a year. If we say it's a maximum of 300 hours, and if someone wants to drain it to the fullest, that's CZK 400 an hour, which is not the usual sum. Maybe in Prague, but in the non-Prague regions, the sum is extremely high. I remind you, if it was a standard employment ratio and it was CZK 400 an hour, it's a salary of 64,000 a month. So if we let go of the 450 hours, we'll get to the maximum exhaustion of the number of hours and the legal limit at CZK 266 per hour. That's not a bad reward at all. It corresponds to a salary just above the average wage. And it's a chance for those who can't get a major job to make money and not fall into the rescue social network system. And that's actually it. I officially subscribe to this amendment, which is listed as House Document No 5205.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u29	I will now ask for Mr Jan Bauer's speech in a detailed debate and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u30	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the three amendments that I have already mentioned in the general debate. 5147, 5148, 5149 - this is how the amendments are introduced into the system. I'll take this opportunity. I would very much like to ask, perhaps even to ask, through Mr President Alena GajdůGajdůšková, who usually acts very decently and culturedly, she said that it sounds from among the opposition that only entrepreneurs or employers work. We looked at each other the way we looked at each other in those benches, 'cause I was so surprised. And to me, these words here seem to me to be extremely dangerous. And I would very much like to ask you, my colleague, to really refrain from these statements, because I think that they are not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u31	Mr Vít Kaňkovský will now appear and Mr Jan Farský will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u32	Have a good afternoon again. As I have already announced, I would like to sign up formally for the amendment under the number of House document 5178. It is an amendment that we have made together with my colleague Josef Hájek and concerns the abolition of the institute or the principle of stop-loss compensation for loss of earnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u33	Mr Jan Farský will now appear and Mrs Olga Richterová will be the last to be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u34	Thank you. I just want to sign up in a detailed debate to Amendment 5198, which I justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u35	And now, Mrs Olga Richterová will perform. I don't have any more... [[Another application from the diaper.]] Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u36	I am applying to Amendment 5204, which concerns automatic valorisation of minimum wage and would actually be related to some stability even in subsequent guaranteed wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u37	And now the rapporteur, Mr Roman Sklenák, is still reporting for a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u38	Yes, thank you. I hereby refer to Amendment 5179, which relates to deferred efficiency or to shifted efficiency, as I mentioned in my reporting report. And at the same time, I would like to make one more suggestion out of caution. I have a feeling that none of us at this time have any idea exactly how the next House meeting is going to take place next week, as I say, out of caution, I suggest that, under Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have reduced the deadline between second and third reading to 7 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-006-024.u39	Okay, I'm registering your proposal. So I will see if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? No. So we will vote on this proposal of yours. I'm gonna go on and give a little time, because the vote's probably a little unexpected for somebody. There's an interest in checking out, so I'm gonna check you out. Please log in with all your voting cards. If there's no objection, I'd move slowly on to the vote. I shall therefore repeat the proposal of the rapporteur, Roman Sklenák, who proposes a reduction of the deadline for third reading to 7 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Voices from the O.R.]] It's not filled with the kvorum yet. I'm closing the vote and we'll wait a little longer. We're ready. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 196, 76 Members signed up, for 66, against none. The motion was accepted. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to discuss another firmly placed point. It's a point.
