ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-077-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I am opening the 77th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone, and good afternoon. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Otherwise, the issue of replacement cards or apologies applies to those that were also loaded for the 75th meeting. This meeting, namely the 77th meeting, was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which he declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 7 December. We should now proceed to the designation of two verifiers for this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Tomáš Vymazal if they are present. I have to wait until there is enough presence in the room to vote on this proposal, so I will ask you all once again to sign up with your identification cards. [[He's waiting for a while.]] At this point, we don't have enough to vote for the verifier. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. [[Gong.]] If the number doesn't come true, I'll be forced to call a recess. [[He's waiting again.]] It doesn't look like there's enough of us. Some Members are still coming, however, to the necessary contract 67 - excellent. I'll ask the arrivals to sign up with their cards so we can reach the Kvora and vote out the verifiers for this meeting. [[62 Members are present at the moment.]] We still have five colleagues missing, so I'm gonna have to put out a break until 14.35, and if they don't get together by then - one isn't enough, although I'm happy to see the secretary. So I'm declaring a break until 14.38, and if there isn't a good deal at the moment, I'll be forced to interrupt the meeting. Thank you. [[The hearing was suspended from 14.33 to 14.38 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we will continue the meeting where I have interrupted it due to insufficient numbers, i.e. before the vote on the verifiers of this meeting. I will repeat that I have proposed that we appoint Members Jan Čižinský and Tomáš Vymazal the verifier of this meeting. I'm gonna ask you again if there's anyone else's proposal, but I don't expect that to be the case. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for these verifiers. Anyone against it? It's not like that. Thank you. In this number one vote, we were eventually signed up 81, for 76, against no one. Thank you. I note that we have appointed members of Jan Čižinský and Mr Tomáš Vymazal to the verifiers of the 77th meeting. [[14.40 hours]] On 17 November of this year, honourable Members, President of the Chamber of Deputies, by decision number 81, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, declared a state of legislative emergency. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House press, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a shortened hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 191/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus on persons involved in judicial proceedings, victims of crimes and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and civil order, as amended by Act No. 460/2020 Coll., this is House Press 1112, in a short hearing. The President of the Chamber of Deputies, by decision number 86, decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing and ordered the House Press 1112 to the constitutionally-legal committee to discuss it and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of a resolution by 10 December 2020 within 13 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. So I am opening up a debate on whether the state of legislative emergency lasts. I'm asking if anyone is applying to this debate. I see no one, so I am done with the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. That is what we are going to vote on now. Initiating vote number two. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 2, 86 Members and Members are registered, for 85, against no one. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 77th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. Please have some comment if they want to change the proposal for a programme, as stated on the invitation, but I do not see anyone reporting to this, so I am closing the debate and the possibility of proposing changes. So we're going to vote on the agenda, just as it was presented on the invitation, when there's one point, I'm not going to read it again. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed agenda. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number three, we're 86, for 82, against no one. I note that the agenda of the meeting, as presented on the invitation, has been approved. Thank you. And then we move forward to point 1 of the approved programme, which is a government bill amending Act No. 191/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus on persons involved in judicial proceedings, victims of crimes and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and civil order, as amended by Act No. 460/2020 Coll., which is the House Press 1112, we are in a short hearing. Before we start discussing it, we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the said proposal were limited. I, therefore, am opening up a debate on this in order to assess whether the conditions for discussion are reduced. I see that no one is reporting to the debate, so I am ending the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 191/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus on persons involved in judicial proceedings, victims of crimes and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and civil order, as amended by Act No. 460/2020 Coll., this is House Press 1112, in a short hearing." We will therefore vote on that. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 4, 86 Members and Members are registered, for 82, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. And so I am now opening this first point, and I will no longer read its name for the fourth time.
