ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u1	292. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole and to other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the Government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I draw attention to all Members of the Government and to those who are intersected, that if the interpelling of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is exhausted, the intersecting of other members of the Government will immediately begin. I would now give the floor to Mr Markéta Adamová Pekarová, but she is excused, so I give the floor to Mr Volný, who will interpel Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, whom I welcome among us, on the foreign military base in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[Mike's not working.]] Sorry. [[Microphone on.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vondra, the newly elected Vice-President of the ODS, mentioned at the ODS Congress the possibility of building a military base of foreign power in the territory of the Moravian-Silesian Region, namely Leoš Janáček Airport, also known as Mošnov Airport. The public response in my region was practically immediate, very violent and mostly negative. I consulted this question with the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, and I was assured that if anything is being considered, the game is only legitimate and, in my opinion, commendable efforts by the Region to place air force units of the Army of the Czech Republic. I would like to ask you to comment on this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u3	Thank you. Thank you for not spending time, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u4	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I was surprised by Mr Vondra's proposal or reasoning. We have no indication or reason to have a new air base at Ostrava. A proposal like this didn't come from the United States, and I don't think it's gonna come, because it doesn't even make sense. We certainly don't think about it, nor do we see why. That means, I don't know where it came from, why it came from. And as for Mr. Governor, I understand his efforts to have a half-empty airport there. His predecessors, instead of trying to do business for the airport, unfortunately let it all fly to Katovice, and now it's very hard to fix. Not to mention that a lot of officers are trying to have their own airport, which I consider nonsense. I have long supported cooperation between Prague Airport, Ostrava Airport. There was also privatization of the repair hall. Unfortunately, there was no audition for the airport, so there was no synergy. So I can only repeat that we certainly don't have that kind of information. I don't think it's appropriate, we don't want it. Our army has enough airports and facilities, and it certainly doesn't consider looking for any new airports that would, of course, require large costs. Neither Mr. Vondra's proposal, nor perhaps Mr. Vondra, who would like to revive the airport in any way, so it's not on the table, and we certainly don't think about it, nor do we want it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u5	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? That's right, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u6	Thank you. Your answer filled me with such mild optimism, Prime Minister. However, although I have been in politics for a short time, I know that the situation on the battlefield is changing at any moment, and so the responses from local ODS cells were, in essence, very pro-American and for this base. We in the Unity movement have decided to create a petition against the formation of this base in the territory of the Moravian-Silesian Region. The text of this petition will be offered to sign both regional representatives at the next regional council and I would like to ask you to support this petition at one of Parliament's next negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u7	Thank you. I do not know if the Prime Minister is interested in responding to this supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u8	I take it and I'm aware, but I don't think this petition is even appropriate, because it's really not real at all. But I understand, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u9	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Stanislav Blaha, who will interpel the Prime Minister on electronic road signs. Ambassador Richterová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u10	Dear Prime Minister. So it seemed that the shame of your government on the electronic highway stamp would be solved by hackathon ITs, who would save the Czech Republic the CZK 400 million, and eventually we would find out that the whole system had one secret function, namely spying on people. Don't be mad at me, but this is a big move on Orwellův's Big Brother. Please answer me the question why the state should use this tool to store data on the complete movement of a particular car on the Czech motorways. But what struck me most about this information yesterday was how all the representatives of the state concerned expressed themselves. The head of SFDI Zbyněk Hořelica and the deputy at the Ministry of Transport Tomáš Čoček, under which this agenda belongs, told journalists that they do not want to comment until the situation is introduced to Minister Havlíček. Even ex-minister Kremlík, who bears the ultimate blame for this show, refused to comment on anything. Minister Havlíček said at first - I quote: "I have verified everything, but by being part of the order in the security regime, we cannot comment on the details of this character. " And even though, following the media's pressure, he replied that it certainly wasn't to see if Franta Vomáčka's going on a date, I have a feeling that the state didn't want the citizens of this country to know about this hidden spying function. [[14.40 hours]] Dear Prime Minister, I ask you to respond to the following: for what purpose does the state need to collect and store data on vehicle movements on motorway networks and, above all, why has the State withheld this functionality of the new system? I can't help but think this is an absolutely unacceptable step for me when the state enters the lives of citizens, even without their knowledge. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u11	Thank you. I'm asking for better time-keeping. And I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u12	Well, of course, it's a lie. It's a lie to the media again. Now, I don't know if it was the Respekt sect, Bakalův, who leaked this lie, but it's a lie. And there's no such thing. And the state certainly doesn't spy on its citizens and it doesn't want to spy on them, there's no reason. Of course, those cameras only have one function in terms of state interest, and that's to record a car that doesn't have a paid highway stamp. And now it's supposed to be the electronic one. And based on that, the car is immediately reported to the police and the police are acting. That's all we're dealing with as a state. So, of course, we have security forces here that have submitted requirements for the information system of the electronic highway sign, which is in accordance with the approved Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. And, of course, we canceled the contract against the will of the two gentlemen you appointed, whom I called for resignation. Also the first Deputy Čoček of Transport, Mr. Hořelica. But they don't resign because they feel like they didn't. I think they did. It was beyond the government's consciousness, beyond mine. And, of course, on the other hand, we are mainly dealing with the safety of our citizens here. The security of our citizens is a priority for us. This means that our security forces have some demands to avoid e.g. terrorist attacks. So it's not spying. Nobody's spying on anybody here. But we have to respect the demands of intelligence. And that's actually what the files are for. They're supposed to deal with it. So today, of course, it's about security. The contest will be rewritten. It's true that it wasn't written correctly that the part about the call center and the e-shop wasn't supposed to be under any regime. But, of course, there are some demands here. And it is only for the safety of Czech citizens. So there's no spying. And I reject it, this nonsense that somebody wrote, and then everyone, as tradition is, as they copy. And it's not true. I refuse again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u13	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u14	So this answer could satisfy me if it didn't say that it was the safety of Czech citizens again. So, obviously, the monitoring will be there, and if there is no other robust system, then that's all the less understanding of the competitive award of the public contract. [[Maybe.]] The whole issue of the electronic motorway stamp was dealt with in April last year by the subcommittee on transport. And I have one slide from the presentation that I'm giving you, Prime Minister, where it's clearly shown how it's going to be checked whether or not the car has a paid road pass. [[shows]] It was supposed to be checked by the cops in the cars. When asked how toll gates, which by the way are state property, would be used, were answered that they would not be used in this system. Maybe just a few, just to get some records, so they know how many cars they're driving and they're not paid, so the cops can focus on that section. So it's all just weird. And I would like more information, and I would like to arrange a meeting with you on this subject if you would be willing to meet with me. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u15	I beg you to keep your time. And please the Prime Minister, if he's interested in answering a follow-up question, he's got room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u16	Yeah, yeah, I'd love to meet you. It's not a problem. I repeat, who doesn't pay the stamp, now electronic, so the system is supposed to notify the police, the police are doing it. As far as the security forces are concerned, I repeat, it is not spying on our citizens. And December 21, 2018 - I quote: "Slovák, who accepted Islam, prepared a terrorist attack in the Czech Republic. Czech Police accused men from Slovakia, living in Prague, of preparing a terrorist attack and terrorist propaganda." The Czech Radio reported on Friday. During the house search, etc... bomb, yes. So our security forces have demands to protect our people. That's all. This means that if we - and last time we had a vizo from Austria, that someone could be here, so it's just things that are in the regime, they're undercover. I don't know them myself. There are laws. And we're not actually able to answer those questions. But again, we're not spying on anyone. And if the BIS has, or any other of our services, any demands, it's only in order that they have the opportunity to intervene in any way in any case. But I like... We can invite, I don't know, the BIS Director and we can discuss it together, I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u17	Thank you. And please, Mrs Richterová, who will intersect the Prime Minister on the agreement of the Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on children's groups - when. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the topic of my interpellation is very simple, but it has been dragging for a long time. The point is that in words, this government supports children's groups, sometimes called crèches or crèches, as the possibility that - typically used by two - year - olds - their parents could perhaps return to work part - time. The Prime Minister recently wrote about this in Hi people that he was discussing children's groups. But the law that concerns them somehow fell out of the legislative plan for this year, it's parked, and I'm wondering when the agreement will come up that will allow it to be discussed. From information on how comments and inconsistencies have been going so far, it is evident that the Prime Minister needs to act in order for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to find solutions. Quality care for young children is expensive, but it also pays off economically. There are also economic studies that, in the long term, in higher birth rates, in higher employment, in smaller career falls, quality pre-school care for young children is worthwhile. Now, all we need to do is turn these findings into a concrete step, and that's in the agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the MPSV on how specifically long-term funding will look. Not from European funds, but from the long-term setting of funding for children's groups in our country. And I guess no one but the Prime Minister can push this deal. That's why I'm asking you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u19	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. And I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u20	Thank you for asking. I agree with you. I just don't agree that it's the Prime Minister who's been killing it here. We have a coalition government. We've been dealing with this issue. And of course, I myself visited several children's groups and kindergartens, because for me, a children's group is actually such a complementary part of caring for children. Because, in three months' time, those entrepreneurs who have these children's groups are able to start a group of children, create, get all the permits. And, of course, those kindergartens that we watched very closely, too, because in September 2018, we announced a grant degree for kindergarten, and 600 million were gone in 16 seconds. Then we repeated it again and there were several billion in total. So, Minister Maláčová and Minister Plaga declared at the Coalition Council that they were compatible. This means that MŠMT considers children's groups to be a complementary part of caring for children in an age group up to three years of age, along with kindergarten schools that educate children in an age group of three to six years. A MŠMT accepts the possibility of caring for children in children's groups up to the age of three plus, in municipalities where sufficient capacity is not created in kindergartens for this age group. So, of course, we're dealing with it. For us, it is important that mothers - we in previous coalition governments have given tax advantages to working parents on the first third child several times, and in this regard we are the first in Europe. But of course, the background is also important, which means that our mothers have a place to put their children. And, of course, it's different in every region. I've dealt with the various organizations that record it at the Office of the Government. As far as funding is concerned, we have exhausted eight billion under the European programme 2014 to 2020, and it is true that Minister Maláčová has come up with this to be financed from the Czech budget. And we agreed that, after all, within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of such, let's say, programs that make sense, which are not some kind of analysis and seminars, and I don't know what everything is, the soft ones from which nothing falls - this is important - that is why we agreed that now Minister Dostálová is talking about CZK 2 billion for this programming period. Well, of course, I'm flying to Portugal on Saturday to meet friends of cohesion and 6. 6. I discussed this with Carl Michel in Brussels because 20. 2. the European Council will be on the next financial framework, on the next budget, European, and, of course, we want to push through the things that we consider important and not what Brussels dictates. So in this respect for me, if money comes from Europe or from the Czech budget, there is one crown in the finals, the euro turns into a crown, they are crowns that must be invested meaningfully. So now it's up to the government. I'm surprised you didn't have it on the Social Committee any more. I'm sure the Minister would have informed you of how it all went down. And there's more or less a match. Madam Secretary wants to change the name of the children's group to a nursery. I'm sure there will be a debate here in the House. So we're in a hurry, but there's no problem that he... I asked what the overhang was, Minister Maláčová, and she said she didn't have an overhang. I called on people on Facebook - and I'm glad you're reading my "Hi, guys" on Sunday, that made me happy - and some of them wrote to me. Ostrava Poruba said they miss kindergarten. Well, when I checked with the MMR, they didn't actually comply with the request, and the request couldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u21	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u22	Thank you for your answer. As far as I know, in an open letter from Mr Pertold's economist, there were estimates that up to 14,000 places of preschool care were missing. That it's not about desperate people calling, but if there were places, they could use them, they could use more part-time jobs and stuff. So, first of all, to the demand. There's definitely potential for several thousand places, no doubt. And now, you yourself said it would go to the government now. My question is very simple. When will it go to the government and there will be an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour? I am glad that the differences between MSMT and MPSV have become clear, but the fundamental contradiction was in the amount of the contribution between finance and MPSV on the other hand. The European funds will not save all of this. Our state money will also have to be gradually guaranteed. And as we said, it's very important, we all agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u23	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u24	I don't know who Mr. Pertold is, I don't even know where he got it. But the Children's Group Association, two of them, as far as I know, reported to me five and a half thousand. And the problem is, of course, sometimes parents apply for two places, so the real interest is a little different. And, of course, Minister Maláčová is vehemently promoting a large budget from Europe to her resort, and I do not see why we could not, when we were getting it from Europe, why we could not receive it during the next period. I don't think we'll agree on that. There's no problem, Madam Secretary doesn't record any overhangs. We have now agreed that Mrs Dostálová will still find out the possibility of using and moving individual European funds between funds that are not so pumped up, so it is being dealt with and there is no problem. I think we have put 26 billion in education, infrastructure, from 2014 to 2019. Czech money as well as European money. Only until kindergarten it was 5.3 billion, primary schools were 16 billion and so on. So I think we're watching, we're doing our best. There is absolute consistency between Minister Maláčová and Mr Plaga, and certainly with Secretary of Finance Mrs Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u25	Thank you. Before I invite another speaker, I have a set of note cards. Mr Pavlas apologizes to us from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Pustějovskýějovský apologises from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work, I apologize, i.e. Vojtěch Pikal, between 16.30 and 17.30 p.m. for reasons of work, Mr Bžoch apologizes between 14.30 and 17 p.m. for reasons of work, Mr Holomčík apologizes for reasons of duty, Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 p.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Kozlová apologises between 14.30 and 21 p.m.m. due to doctor's visit, Mr Čižinský apologises between 15 p.m.m. and the end of the sitting day for personal reasons, and Mr králíček apologizes between 15 and 18 p.m.m.m. And now Mr Bartoš will interpel in the matter of another fate of the construction law. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u26	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to address you in the matter of another fate of the construction law. In the past period and in fact last year we all agreed that we need to speed up the construction process in the Czech Republic. After all, the digital treasure, digital technical maps, together with your Members and ministries, we delivered this legislation last year. But the flagship of the entire acceleration of the construction process should have been the design and overall recodification from the pen of the Ministry of Regional Development and Minister Klára Dostálová. I would like to say, and I am not afraid to say that Mrs Klára Dostálová has failed this task, and in some way you have become a guarantor of continuing this. [[15.00 hours]] The draft law had a number of problems, there was total outsourcing, so the method of preparation was completely conducted with the dominant share of a private interest entity. It was the Chamber of Commerce. There have been formal flaws in the process of preparation, both a contradiction with the legislative rules of the government, even in fact only a quarter of the settlement of comments, but there has not even been a legislative opinion of the government on the substantive intention. The law envisages a complete centralization and creation of one mega-office, which will deal with the construction process throughout the Czech Republic. Furthermore, there are reservations to weaken the public interest or to strengthen the construction worker without justification, such as reducing the requirements for infrastructure construction and others. This law was also contradicted by people from the Ministry of Regional Development itself, and the Ministry of the Interior also talks about the estimated financial costs of the entire systemization and the creation of a mega-office worth hundreds of billions and a halt to 18 months of construction proceedings by 50 percent. How do we proceed with the construction law? Will the government return to the beginning, or will you enter into a debate with the Chamber of Deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u27	Thank you. I'm asking for better time-keeping. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u28	Thank you for the floor. Well, I don't think the interpellation's up to date, 'cause, of course, the whole building bill recodification thing had some sort of development. Of course, it is a great shame that we are in the rankings somewhere 157th place, that with us all construction proceedings last five and a half years and highway thirteen. Now we've also made another law where we want to reduce it. Yes, it's a key building law, and we think there must be an agreement with everyone. Of course, you were talking about hundreds of billions, which is, of course, nonsense. Even what the Home Office has put on the government, what we haven't even discussed, that we're going to build some new construction offices, isn't true, and it's not up to date. It's true that the secretary's communication wasn't entirely ideal, but then I stepped in. I think that on January 13 we sat together with the President of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, Mr Lukl, and with the Minister of the Interior, Deputy Minister Mlsna, and we agreed on a procedure. I think it took a whole different direction from that moment on. I think it's important that we all agree on this law, because it's not just for this government, it's for other governments. So as far as the comment procedure is concerned, of course there is a large number, a total of 7,700, of which 6,500 fundamentals, 5 700 comments were applied to the construction law, so there are actually two laws, so the MMR, including the Minister, launched intensive negotiations with comment points to find a consensus. Of course, the comments must be settled. I suppose they should be by the end of February, no, by the end of March, then it will go to the LRV and I hope that we will have it on the government in May. The point is, of course, we were approached by the ODS now, we had a meeting this week with ODS President Fiala and Mr Kupka, and of course we are happy and we will cooperate with the opposition, so the meeting was constructive. We have agreed, we have informed about the further progress of legislative work and that the MMR will cooperate with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where the pirát certainly have their representation, so that committee would extend the focus of its working group on the electronisation of building proceedings to a new building law, so in this respect I think you will be there and there is no problem. I am glad that we have the same opinions with the opposition to the core and that we need to build faster. We certainly are, and we are open in this regard and I think that criticism is not appropriate, because we have heard the comments of the Union of Cities and Communities as well as within the Ministry of the Interior, and the debate with the ODS was very specific and we will certainly be happy to discuss this with you within the Committee, or separately, that depends on you, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u29	Thank you. Mr Bartoš is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u30	Thank you. I just want to fill you in on the information. The group is the continuation of the digital group, which solved the digital technical map, there are also representatives of the parties to the government coalition, which was established. I am glad that we will be a full partner in this process. I would go back to the fundamental thing that the law is actually implementing, and that's the creation of the central building office, the mega-office. In this study by the Ministry of Interior, relatively large costs are actually calculated, regardless of whether a new building will be built or buying new computers, but there is talk of a transfer of 7 to 13,000 officials who are not state employees at the moment, are in those municipalities and in those regional units, under the central building office, thus under the Civil Service Act. I warned you about that when we met. So my question is going to be direct: is the central building office still in play, or are we going to drop it and really go the way of efficiency?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u31	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u32	It's not. That changed after the meeting. Of course, there were two of us at the meeting with Minister Dostálová, one for the state, that is me, who wants to build highways and bypasses, bypass Prague - where, by the way, your mayor of Prague can't even talk about it, is biased, and in Uhříněves there is some office where there are two ladies, one was supposedly ill, and they decide about the bypass of Prague. That's ridiculous. So, of course, we as a state, like line constructions, like those priority buildings for the benefit of the citizens of this country, we need to have a central office, it's not about moving thousands of officials, those officials stay where they were. Of course, it would be even better for you to interpel Mrs. Dostálová, because I can't know all this, but in this regard, the Association of Communities was fine. In negotiations with the ODS Mr. Kupka, he also has quasi-covering interests because he is the mayor, so we are all there and looking for compromise and there will be no movements or new things, so that has changed. [[He's laughing.]] But it is true that the state should clearly say when it will build a nuclear power plant or highways, or bypasses, that it is not possible for all the Children of the Earth to block everything and we are now waiting for the Supreme Administrative Court in Brno to bypass Přerov's year and a half. And the gentleman makes it out of sport, he's basically blocking everything. So we really need to speed this up. And I think that we will definitely agree and that it is for the benefit of all citizens. And it's not for this government, it's for everyone next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u33	Thank you. Mrs Červíčková apologises from 16.30 to 18 hours for work reasons. Mr Kupka will now intersect on the innovative toast bread line Penam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u34	Prime Minister, I would like to draw your colleagues and colleagues' attention to the story of the so-called innovation line for the production of toast bread Penam and the $100 million subsidy that Agrofert received. Now new information is coming out, which even for those who are otherwise rooting for Agroferta, is disturbing, because the $100 million was to flow from a subsidy program called Innovation, and according to the official manual of the Ministry of Industry, the money was to be used to increase the innovative performance of businesses. Only companies that have developed unique know-how themselves should be supported, or created it in cooperation with universities, scientists and researchers. However, contrary to the basic focus was already expressed by the director of the bakery division Penam Milan Prause during the ceremonial opening of the operation, who said he wanted to have a line that is the same as the most modern lines in Europe. I'm stressing - which is the same as the most modern lines in Europe. [[15.10 hours]] And then it is also interesting how the evaluators who have given 64 to 65 points to the whole subsidy today. The condition was to obtain at least 60. So one of them says that if he knew back then that Agrofert was probably already using similar technology in Germany, he could never get a point assessment for innovation and fail. Here I quote literally, as well as other findings that clearly refute that this should be an innovative project. After all, the equipment itself was provided by standard route. I would therefore like to ask, Prime Minister, who will pay the CZK 100 million if they come from taxpayers' money. And I'd like to ask if it seems right to you that Agrofert was asking for the grant, and if it seems right to you that he got the grant. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u35	I beg you to keep your time. I ask the Prime Minister to respond to this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u36	Mr. Ambassador, you've been acting quite normal on this building bill right now. [[Laughter in the YES benches.]] But now I don't feel like you seem normal. Like here, we have a law, § 110 - every Member has the right to interpel the government or its members in matters of their competence. Do you feel that the government is the owner of Agrofert? Maybe you didn't watch yesterday that there was some press conference that you all yelled about some money coming back. They came back for you: 32 billion. And yesterday it appeared that the European Commission actually recognized some former company that they were looking for CZK 1.6 million. So it's just confirmed that nothing's coming back. And I shouldn't even be talking to you about this, because I consider this debate absurd. But since you started it, the total investment is 617 million. 617 million. That means a hundred - the subsidies are for doing business. That's what they're for. And the rest was given by the company. She's employed people. I guess that's hard for you to understand. So I don't even want to deal with it here. All I know is that when the auditor came in and said it was a conflict of interest for Babiš, and that subsidy was awarded to 8. 2. allegedly 2017. Conflict of interest. It was just a little mistake that slipped away that the conflict of interest began to pay 9. 2. So the auditor said, never mind, it's not innovation. So don't doubt the purpose of the audit, Mr. Ambassador. I just want to say it's nonsense. And I don't understand what you're thinking about here. It is enough that we have MEPs preparing for a crusade to the Czech Republic - our... Peksa and Zdechovský and Mrs Hohlmeier. We look forward to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u37	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u38	I firmly believe that whether someone is normal and acting like one does not decide whether or not he is critical of the government and to you, Prime Minister. I still wanted to ask about the grant because it has to do with the government's role, because the Ministry decided on the grant. There is no dispute about that, and therefore it is under the jurisdiction of the government, and it totally belongs here in the debate. Still, if there wasn't this argument, it's a perfectly appropriate question and interpelation, because of course it concerns your actions. I'd ask those questions again because I didn't get an answer. Does it seem right to you that the Ministry granted the subsidy and that Agrofert applied for it, even if it did not fulfil the conditions of innovation? That's a matter of fact. Actually, there's nothing as political about her as it might seem. And another question, because Agrofert had already asked for another, similar line for Profrost, and at that time he did not receive any subsidy, although it was very similar. [[Time warning]] So what's the deal with this subsidy?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u39	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u40	I'm always fascinated by the fact that people who have done a lot of damage here have the nerve to perform like this. You know, there was an election. I don't know what happened anymore. But I went among the citizens. I've been informed there's a royal parade. So I went there. The horses came, I'm looking at it. And there's Bendl sitting there. And I think you were sitting there, too. So the $100 million went to make toast bread. And it kept people busy. You made a deal for a $43 million royal parade in 2008. So you better explain to people how you privatized the hospitals with Bendlo and why you gave $43 million to this nonsense. Yeah, please. So let it go. Try to act normal. I don't deal with Agrofert. I mean, I left. And that company employs 35,000 people, and it's doing something for this country, especially those who are employed there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u41	I beg you to hold on to the subject, too, maybe. And now President Fiala will intersect on the matter of Superminister Havlíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u42	Dear Prime Minister, I am in great temptation here to defend Vice President Kupka, but I will not do it because I respect the rules. The days passed were full of government case and affair. I think we both agree on that. To sum it up: 400 million for e-shop for highway signs. A billion more expensive IT system on an MPSV. Three more expensive radars at the DOD. If we put it in our calculator, we'll have about $2 billion worth of money. That is, in a few days of the reign of the ANO, the CSSD and the Communists, I think, quite a sad bill. You played it in the car. You traded, fired - didn't fire Vladimír Kremlík from the Department of Transport. You switched super-minister Havlíček to that department. Now, let's just remember: carbon neutrality, the tender for building new nuclear power plant blocks, standing by for a new telephone operator. Those are the points that I think of as the challenges that Minister Havlíček was to address in his Resort number one. And you added the construction of roads and highways to it; sub-financed by SFDI and ŘSD; a broken toll tender that will allow us to be the first country in the world to have two toll systems; the problem with the electronic road sign, which, as we also learned yesterday, will be spying on citizens; still unfinished nationwide ticket for all carriers so that passengers do not have to buy on the way from Moravia to Prague especially one at Arriva, the other at České dráhy, eventually the third at Leo Express; and so on and so on. I think that's quite a lot of challenges for two ministers. Maybe we can agree on that, too. I really don't want to lose the skills of Minister Havlíček, but I don't think even the Harry Potter you mentioned here in your recent speech could do that. So I ask you when you will reach into your supposedly inexhaustible well of capable managers and bring to Castle the name of some new minister who would at least start solving the problems that are really there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u43	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I ask the Minister for an answer. [[Reactions from the O.R.: Mr. Prime Minister!]] I mean, the Prime Minister. Sorry. Sorry. I'm so sorry. Member of the Government and Prime Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u44	I'd rather you say Babiš. Well, where do we start? You guys had that convention now, or you had it, or whatever it was you had it. Well, congratulations. [[Help from the diaper: Congress.]] Excuse me? Congress. Sorry. Sorry. As if I were reading here... You have the problem with the brand. You got the mark destroyed. I don't want to talk about it here. Please, we canceled IT. We didn't know. Yes, now from 1. 2. we have adopted a resolution that we will be dealing with this. Radar - Mr. Metnar explained it. But when he gets here, interpel him. I'd like that. Let him explain. I'd like that. Absolutely. The other one I don't understand. So you've been talking about everything. It's hard to explain, you know? [[15.20 hours]] I've been to a company that has 35,000 employees, and I've been running it for over seven people. And I've always picked out some things I've been looking out for. And when I solved the problem, I moved it to the manager. So I don't know how to talk to you about driving when you and I are from a completely different world. So it's hard to explain after that. I personally supervise - no, Mr. Havlíček doesn't, I'm overseeing the ŘSD. And I'm online with the director. SŽDC as well as České dráhy. Even now, we're investing in Bata's channel, etc. So that's not the problem. I mean, when you have big companies, there's management, there's a board of directors, and there's a board of supervisors. So you just have to look at the result once a month and ask a question. And today we have everything online, we can make a phone call. And I'm surprised you're talking about the IT contract. We've got, you've got Stanjura, I've got Pustějovskýějovsky, socans have Onderka. And what were they doing there on the SFDI Supervisory Board? Why didn't anyone inform them? Because they were cheated just like they cheated on us! SFDI. And they didn't bother to inform anyone. So I don't know why you blame me. If there's a committee nominated by the House, then let them explain. I learned it from the paper. And the insolence of those officials I've called upon to resign more than once, the first Deputy Minister of Transport and the director of the SFDI, who has a budget of 93 billion, is this. I wonder how, yes, and you'll say, you've already told me on Tuesday that the Civil Service Act, that you criticized it. I guess you were right. I guess we didn't do it well. So I wonder if I'll come and ask you to remove the SFDI from the Civil Service Act if you'll support us. So the officials won't laugh at us, for example. So I don't think I'm going to occupy the Ministry of Transport with another minister. It's a definite decision, mine, it's my jurisdiction. And I'm gonna help Havlíček with that. Those big companies, they interest me. Why is he building slowly? What are they doing? There's a lot of stuff in there. National investment plan. So Mr. Havlíček will restructure it with the Ministry and set up a new order, if I may say so. And that's it. And I'm sure I'll keep an eye on the big companies. Because there's new management. We've got a new head of ŘSD, we've got a new head of the Czech Railways, we've got this, so there's no problem, and these are key companies, and I think we're definitely gonna make it. I understand that some people who've never had so many companies don't understand it, but it's just a management system. And believe me, I've had quite a bit of experience with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u45	Thank you, and the President will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u46	I, Prime Minister, may not really be the world's director like you, but I managed one of the largest public institutions in this republic that had 5,000 employees, a six-billion-dollar budget, and I built a unique campus to watch from all over the world, and which, unlike your promised investments, really stands. And people use it and serve the Czech Republic. So don't bring up what anyone was driving and who wasn't driving! I asked you a clear question, and I didn't ask you about the things you answered. I asked you about problems in both departments, and I told you that I just don't think there's any way one minister could handle it. Let us remember that, for example, Marta Nováková's neck wasn't able to move on to another telephone operator that would make her data cheaper. Minister Havlíček didn't move it, he didn't move Dukovan, he didn't move Temelín, and now you have assigned another extremely difficult tasks to Minister Havlíček, which he stands and where the Czech Republic doesn't move. So I'm asking you if you want to talk about it, and you don't want to have another minister to really move it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u47	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u48	I really admire you, Mr President. You probably don't know the history of how Řebíček became Minister of Transport for you. He was supposed to be Bendl, then something happened. And why was 450 million miles of highway worth 150 for your government? You know why? You know why. So please don't lecture me. Řebíček was the owner of Viamont, you tunneled it brutally. I don't know why you're even opening this up, these old mess of yours. Why are you doing this? We're not corrupt. Havlíček and I came from business. Nobody's gonna bribe us. We do it honestly, and Havlíček does a good job. He's doing a good job. And trust me, he can handle those two resorts. Even the core. So I don't understand this debate, but don't go into debates where you can't win! I have a good memory. And I put it on your Facebook page, that's where you'll read it, all your troubles since the revolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u49	Thank you and now Mr Černohorský will interpel on the list of investment events in the National Investment Plan. Mr Munzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u50	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask where a list of buildings, such as the construction of a new winter stadium in Frenštát, Hlučín or Zlín, came from in the National Investment Plan. For example, the town of Příbor is mentioned there, and the mayor did not know that such a thing was to be built. Which was obviously a surprise for the others, because there are already two hockey stadiums in Zlín. So this would be the third. So I'm more interested in what documents you were based on, or what organization has reported to you that such structures should be implemented. Because as investors, there are individual cities written there, but no one has any information about it. On the other hand, why it might be missing, you yourself mentioned that, for example, preschools are missing in Ostrava-Poruba, so how maybe mayors should report that they need you to provide them with some funding to complete other kindergartens that are missing in the National Investment Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u51	Thank you for keeping me. And I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u52	The kindergartens are missing because we almost solved them. And when I called on people, I got out of Ostrava, that's where it went wrong, I think the mayor of Letohrad texted me. Eight and a half billion were transferred there from European money. We're dealing with the groups. Your colleague has me intersecting here, so kindergarten isn't there, that would be a list of thousands, of course. How did the list come about? Well, the list came up by contacting us, all the resorts gave it to us, all our state's organizational, chieftains, we approached the mayors, and whoever reported it to us, so we put it there, and, of course, I'm glad that the individual participants are working with it. So now we're opening, so we're starting to build Bata's channel, so they've got 1.9 billion by 2030. Mayor Prostějov tells me that there is no reconstruction of the winter stadium for 168 million. Some protested that they had it there, so let's put it away. That's not a problem. But this is not, this is the instrument for this, specifically, to prepare the budget for 2021. I was in Litvínov this morning. They want 555 million to the stadium. So we agreed that the owner, Unipetrol, could give a hundred, mayor, or mayor a hundred, the county of two hundred, and maybe a trace. Yes? And then I have to get those tracks into the budget. And if Mr. Governor Čunek is building a hospital, he's probably got it here, so he's gonna build it. So it's a working tool and a summarist and the potential of our country, because the ministers didn't even know what they had there. We didn't. Yes? Government resolution 2002, reconstruction of Litomyšl Castle. So what? Anyway! If the minister doesn't put it in the budget, he's not there. So everyone was giving the evidence, and that's what they're gonna work with, and it's gonna change, and if some of them are protesting, of course, that there's something in there, we're gonna put it away. So it's not the law. That's actually the potential of our country, and I think that's a good thing, and that's what the mayors, the chieftains, are working with. And now, of course, I'm working with it, especially in hospitals, because it's about cash flow. [[15.30 hours]] And the hospital in Olomouc claims that the pavilion for $3 billion is capable of spending $500 million on 2021. And the maternity ward in Brno, which is promised by all twenty years there, the chief, said, 20 years someone has promised. And I say we approve now, and now I'm gonna put money on your desk, Harry Potter, and how much are you gonna spend on 2021? Sixty million only? All right, I'm writing down $60 million. I thought it was 500. So I only do cash, cash flow, I do prep for that. Because, of course, today the Ministry of Health has so-called unused claims because they have approved the entire projects on the basis of some predictions that have not occurred. They didn't spend the money, then it shows up in the challenges, and then it misrepresents everything. So we want to do it exactly. And it's a completely different situation in health care than in transport infrastructure, where we have money, we want to build and where some environmental terrorists are throwing us a pitchfork. So that's what this is about. And if there are any comments, we can adjust it. No problem. He's been writing a lot of people, he's been sending about 600 e-mails. We're flexible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u53	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u54	Thank you. My question was more about whether it was obtained from any documents that may not be up to date, because if the mayors didn't know about it, then who's allowed to put something in there? 'Cause if there's any incentive from a citizen, if it's more important than the mayor who asks for the elimination, that he doesn't have anything like that and that he doesn't even have the space to build it. [[is]] So who and where and how, then, are they supposed to be eliminated, or are they supposed to include a project?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u55	Thank you. I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u56	One more time. I warned Minister Dostálová and she had the paper for it. And we insisted that the captains give it to us in writing. So I have the paper here from the former chieftain that they gave what's in the Karlovy Vary region. And the other mayors, but we didn't go into the details of the small community, so if it's there, and we're not going to change it right now, so let the mayor write it down, and we'll adjust it accordingly if there's anything else. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u57	Thank you and we'll move on. Mr Munzar will interpel in New Green Deal and Mr Bartoň will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u58	Thank you, Mr President, hello. Dear Prime Minister, the so-called Green Plan for Europe, New Green Deal, will mean increasing electricity, heat, increasing travel, increasing traffic, simply increasing household life costs, increasing business costs, and also costing huge amounts of state budget, which will cost a huge amount of taxpayers. The Government of the Czech Republic has agreed to this plan, although you have recently argued that the condition for admission will be for nuclear energy to be recognised as a clean source, as well as guarantees that the Czech Republic can complete its nuclear power plants. Nuclear energy has not become a clean source and we do not have any guarantees that the European Commission will agree to construction. In the European Council, they merely stated that some countries have nuclear energy as part of their energy mix. So the result is this toothless statement on the European Council, and yet you agreed with the New Green Deal plan. This turned out even worse in the European Parliament because it did not recognise the role of nuclear energy as low-carbon technology. Yet MEPs for the YES movement voted in favour of the adoption of the New Green Deal. So I want to ask you, Prime Minister, what the Czech citizens have gained in exchange for your approval to increase energy prices and increase their cost of living, what the government of the Czech Republic has actually obtained in exchange for this approval, and in particular how much the introduction of the New Green Deal will cost our economy. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u59	Thank you for not spending time, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u60	Of course, Mr. Ambassador, your performance is classically demagogical, and ask some other prime minister, but we're sitting there alone, so I don't know who you know, who you'd ask, that I fought for two hours for the fact that there's a core in the conclusions, and they didn't want it there, because we have blocking positions there. That means Austria was blocking it, and I finally convinced them. And it's a big success. For the first time in the history of the European Union and the Council, it literally says our right to build a core, okay? I do not comment on the European Parliament. We in the European Parliament have 21 Czech MEPs, who usually just use it to fight against Babiš, so I don't care how European elections went. I'm even more fascinated by the fact that thanks to the ODS, we have the solar tunnel, the thousand billion. You know, and it's still eating up our budget. Thanks to your Topolánek, he did the 20-year deal for the solar barons. And that budget last year, and this year, thanks to the ODS, it's gone 30 billion. I don't know what you're talking about. What are you talking about? Of course, we acted, and I was still in June, with the Polish Prime Minister we proposed and de facto pushed through the 100 billion euro transit fund from which we get money, because we clearly argued that Poland, and we also, in essence, have coal burning here, and we would like to end the coal burning one day, and to end it, we need that core. So I don't understand what you're saying. Carbon neutrality 2050, of course, would be a long-term debate. The question is, if the zelený in Germany and Austria and elsewhere don't get the percentage if Green Deal is what it is. I say the European Parliament is in some form. The Czech Republic has only twenty-one Members there. And I have spoken very critically several times, and most importantly, to finally force the other countries to cut emissions. We, as Europe, are reducing, the others are increasing. Yes, so there's a big debate, and basically, if we're doing it, we're doing it to get the money for the investments that we need here, and of course it's very specific programs. In our country it is mainly about water, water retention in the countryside, water interconnections, water availability for our people, for citizens, it is mainly the biggest impact of climate change, drought, and in this direction we are performing there and, of course, we are critical of electric cars and of attacks against the automotive industry, where we are of course a major producer. So in this regard, we certainly are critical and, of course, this negotiation is some sort of tactic to gain maximum profit for the Czech Republic and especially for the next budget. So it is true, and we are also criticising that Europe is only talking about climate change, climate change and so on, but of course we are pointing out other things. So I fundamentally disagree with what you said. It's a huge success that we've put it there. That's why we sat there until, I don't know, till 2:00 that I was blocking it, and they didn't want to put the core in it, so don't say it -- you're commenting on it like it is, so why didn't someone in front of us push it? Why, for example, Topolánek did not enforce your famous Presidency in 2009 to pay us for the transit of electricity. Merkelová has a propeller at sea and doesn't get the current to Bavaria, she has to cross the Czech Republic. And how much do we get? Almost nothing! It's a change. And Austria will also buy electricity, and it goes through us. Fifteen percent of the energy they get from us. And what will they give us? Nothing. And we actually have one of the best power grids in Europe that we're investing five billion in. Every year, okay? So these are all things that we somehow inherited, but those are the things that we argue. So the most important thing for us, of course, is our industry, employment, but also nature, of course... [[Time warning]] And that's why we're dealing with it. But with us, it's mostly water, bark, and other things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u61	The Member must be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u62	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your specific answer, in which you accused me of demagogy, but at the same time, you said the ODS was responsible for the tanning. When you look at the vote that was here in the House when the vote was taken, the ODS MEPs, then, did not vote for it. Contact your coalition partners for social democracy. [[15.40 hours]] At the same time, I am sorry that you do not, in your opinion, care about the vote of your Members on a matter as important as New Green Deal. I appreciate, of course, that the government is trying to promote the interests of the Czech Republic in some cases, especially with regard to the core, but unfortunately this is not going to work, and we have missed because of the hesitation of the governments in which you have been and in which you have been, the several years of hesitation about nuclear power generation and the completion of nuclear power plants, so unfortunately we have lost several years. So I want to repeat at least how much this is going to cost, New Green Deal, our economy, and what guarantees we have that we can complete our nuclear power plant. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u63	Thank you. Please answer the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u64	So you've all been involved in these tanning salons, the traditional democratic parties. But the tunnel was blocked by Topolánek because when the panels were down, he didn't do what he did in Germany. And I'll send you my blog, that's where it's written. And the European Parliament, please, I do not know what we have it for. It really costs us EUR 2 billion. Of course, we have European elections where our people are 28 percent, but I think those who are elected in the House elections have the main mandate. This is the European Council. And we have 21 people there. We have 21 people there, and unfortunately, the whole of Europe is fanatical green, and I can hardly change anything about it. So it costs us, especially your solariums, that's going to cost us 300 billion more, and this isn't going to cost us anything. I fought it out to have a core, and it's there for the first time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u65	Mr Bartoň, on the subject of the education programme, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u66	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, it's been one and a half years since we discussed the national education programme here during the interviews. At the time I asked what was the point of this national education programme in the school law, it is the government's duty to draw it up, it is the government's duty to bring it here to the Chamber of Deputies and to the Senate for approval, when no minister of education has even begun to do it until now. You said that you would ensure that the national education programme was done. You gave yourself a year's term, with a year and a half left. You yourself introduced the deadline by the end of 2019. I've been waiting for one and a half years. 2019 is gone, the national education programme is not, virtually. is still in the law - for 15 years, and for 15 years, it has not even been started, that it may have been removed from the law, or that it would have even been done. So my question to you is, how do you look at your promise you made a year and a half ago?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u67	Thank you for the clear and brief question and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u68	Have you already asked Plaga, or are you all just asking me? We have several ministers in the government, not just Babiš. Did you ask him? [[Yes.]] And did he answer you? [[Yes.]] Okay, fine. [[Laughter.]] So I'll just repeat, yes, you're right that a year ago I told you that the national education programme has not been created since its incorporation in our legislation, that is, since the current school law applies, since 2004. Since then, none of the ministers of education have submitted it: Buzková, Kopicová, Kuchtová, Liška, Dobeš, Fiala even, which is not here anymore, for example, your demoblock, Chládek, Valachová - they have not submitted. Of course, you must ask them why they did not do so. Mrs Valachová is still a Member. I don't know. Who else is here? Well, he's not here. So, Mr. Fiala and Mrs. Valachová. And aren't they on the committee with you? I guess so, so ask them. And Mr Plaga replied to your interpelation on this matter that the need for the creation of an HPV in the form foreseen by the Education Act is no longer up to date, mainly because of the more than ten years of independent existence of the framework education programmes, hereinafter referred to as the RVP, the IPP was probably to prevent the RVP. However, these were issued long before the appointment of this government without this national programme. That's actually how Plaga says it's not up to date anymore. Furthermore, Minister Plaga wrote to you that leaving the need for the creation of HPV in the legally intended form was essentially already the creation of a national programme for the development of education in the Czech Republic, so-called. White books, in 2004, because the White Paper served to determine the direction of the education system and to define the form of education policy, thereby replacing the HPV. As far as our government is concerned, the general objectives of the content of education will be contained in the upcoming 2030+ strategy for which you have been invited. The strategy places emphasis on the development of basic literacy, such as reading, mathematical, natural science, and thus further pursues the educational objectives contained in the law, thereby assuming the role of the NP. Following this strategy, the Ministry continues to work hard on revisions of RVPs, which will include modern trends in education and will help our education system prepare pupils better for their personal and professional life. At this point, however, I must stress that RVP is written by experts not only from the state administration, but also representatives from the professional public and, above all, experienced educators, in cooperation with social partners such as employers. So this government is creating and implementing a strategy in the field of education. The creation of an IPA would lead to a very general document, which would only reflect the basis of the RVP and the priority of the 2030+ Strategy. Because of the practice put in place by the predecessors of Minister Plaga in this regard, it is possible to consider changing the school law by changing the strategic documents mentioned by the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u69	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u70	Thank you. I'll just clarify. RVPs, framework education programs, they're a different section of the school code, I wouldn't put it all together. The National Education Programme is Section 3. In fact, I'm taking the last sentence from your statement that it's been one and a half years, but the result is that we'd better get it out of the school code so it's not there at all. Otherwise, the difference between the 2030+ Strategy, which is not in the Education Act, and the National Education Programme, is that the Strategy is done by the Ministry. The Ministry decides how it will be, while the national education programme was intended to be discussed in both chambers of Parliament, which you will recognise is completely different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u71	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u72	Yeah, I understand. Mrs Valachová has just arrived. So go get some coffee and she'll explain it to you. [[Fun.]] Please, I'm dealing with coronavirus. From morning to evening and all the time. The Číňan won't fly in here and we're doing everything we can to keep people safe. And now I've also spoken to the student whose embassy told him to go to the airport at 6:00, but it didn't tell him until 6:30. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. I'd like us to stick to the subject!]] So make a deal, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u73	I would ask you again to stick to the subject. And now Mr Zahradník will interpel on the situation at the Energy Regulatory Authority. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, the Energy Regulatory Authority is, according to the Energy Act, an important independent regulator whose activity affects perhaps all areas of our economy. That is why it embarrasses the last steps of the new office council, which your government has been set up under not quite standard circumstances last year. This is specifically a weird systemization that cannot be called anything other than destruction until recently a functioning office. Not only this so-called the systemization has not been discussed with the trade union organisation, as ordered by the law, but has not been discussed with the senior staff of the departments concerned either. This systemization has been approved by your government despite the illegal procedure, so you are an accomplice to the situation. Although the principle of reducing public administration positions is generally correct, the reduction should not lead to paralysis, which is at risk in the case of the Energy Regulatory Authority. There was uncertainty at the office, and a number of long-term workers are leaving on their own. It is very likely that a number of actions will be brought. Are you going to do something about this as Prime Minister? Or are you just going to sit back and watch this important office continue to decompose?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u75	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u76	Thank you for asking. According to the Energy Act, the ERU is headed by a board with five members. Vitáskova used to be there. Do you know why the advice came out? They probably wanted to get rid of her, didn't they? Or what it was? You've known it a long time. I haven't known it for a long time. Strange advice is that. The term of office of the members of the Board shall be five years and each shall have a different period. We have everything here independent, but sometimes these people are on those councils... they don't have the primary goal of doing good for our citizens. Then we have to deal with this. Members of the Council and its President shall be appointed and recalled by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Industry and Trade. After the appeal of two members of the Board - . Vladimír Outrata and . Vladimír Vlk - with effect from 31 July 2019 and after the end of the mandate of the Chairman of the Ing Council. Jan Pokorný was appointed new members of the Board: . Stanislav Trávníček, with effect from 1 August 2019 until 31 July 2024 and was appointed President of the Council from 1 August 2019 to 31 July 2022; Petr Kusý, with effect from 1 August 2019 until 31 July 2022, was appointed to the appeal of . Vladimír Vlk; and . Martina Krčová with effect from 1 August 2019 until 31 July 2021. And the other board members are . Krejcar, Ing. Havel. On 15 October 2019, the Board presented a proposal for a systemization at the Energy Regulatory Authority. The formal impulse for the establishment of a new systemization of the ERU was Resolution 783 of 29 November 2018 by which the Government of the Czech Republic imposed on the Minister of Interior, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, on 31 March 2019 a timetable for the preparation of the systemization of service and jobs pursuant to Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, with effect from 1 January 2020. The original request of the Ministry of Finance envisaged a reduction in the number of employees of the ERU by up to 40 from the original 321 places, which would represent a decrease of almost 12,5 %. It was only thanks to the subsequent negotiations that the announced reduction was managed to limit to 25 seats, with the systemization being carried out consistently in view of the real needs of the regulator and not merely formal cancellation of those tables which were vacant at that time. On 18 November 2019, the Government was consulted and its resolution number 811 approved the proposal for the systemisation of the ERU's service and jobs with effect from 1 January 2020, as amended by: From 321 seats for 2019, the ERU was to reduce the number of employees to 296, with 17 staff and 8 jobs out of a total of 25 cancelled posts. A fundamental change in the proposed organisational structure of the Office was its substantial slimming and reduction of the number of senior and senior staff. Prior to the approved systemization for 2020, there were fewer than 5 subordinates to one ERU executive, while on average, in the state administration institutions, the manager was in charge of approximately half of the subordinates. In the context of the measures described, 20 management positions were cancelled. Extensive restructuring of the Authority has affected all levels of leadership and all workplaces. Any disproportion between rustled and newly systemized sites across localities reflects the need to strengthen the regulatory and administrative management services, i.e. the main activities of the regulator. An important motive for restructuring was also to complete individual sections, as territorial fragmentation of the sections, which progresses to the level of trade unions, reduces the effectiveness of their operation and contributes to increasing the Office's internal administrative burden. The described procedure also explains why 65 systems have been cancelled and 40 new ones have been created. The creation of the necessary new positions at the expense of those that have become necessary in the changing regulatory environment and in the light of the requirement to reduce the total number of employees. After a change in systemization of ERÚ with efficiency from 1 January 2020, 120 seats are systemized in Jihlava, 104 in Prague and 72 in Ostrava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u77	Thank you, too. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, I didn't really ask you how you were doing the destruction. Rather, I asked you if you are aware that this office is being destroyed, that it is not possible to liquidate such an office at this time when relatively significant energy problems await us. If the Green Agreement for Europe takes place, if you want to increase the share of renewable resources to 22 percent by 2030, that will be in ten years' time, it will make a significant contribution to our energy. It'll move the price structure. It's going to affect it in a huge way in electricity prices. And against what's going to happen, that tunnel, as you say, the solar one that you accused us of, I don't agree with it, it's gonna be fun. So why do you liquidate such an office would have a significant role to play in that future energy situation? [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u79	Please answer the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u80	Ambassador, no, no. This tunnel of yours is really gonna cost us 300 billion by 2030. But we're not destroying anyone. You know what bothers me about those offices? Independents? So-called independents? That we raise pensions dramatically, raise salaries, and these authorities are watching. ČTÚ, big debate on the most expensive data in Europe. How did the former president of the ČTÚ not react when the European Commission wrote him a letter that there was no competition on the mobile operator market? How come he didn't respond? Who regulates it? Why do we have so much electricity and power? Who's doing this? Is that an ERÚ? I don't know. These are independent authorities. Sometimes they get a little too addicted, sometimes. You know? So we need honest people there who work for this country and for these citizens, because of course we have monopolies here. I don't know, how did you privatize all this? Water, gas's gone, everything's gone. And then we have an office to oversee it. And then, of course, people have to pay for it. Not to mention your tunnel, of course. I'm not saying these authorities upset me that the household costs are just rising. They should do it honestly and keep an eye on it. And why there's five people in there, I don't understand. There was one once. But maybe you remember. I don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u81	Thank you. And apparently, the last interview will be for Mr Michálek to intercede on the matter: why don't you come to work so often? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u82	Mr President, please explain to the citizens why you have not come to the Chamber of Deputies four times and 21 times out of 25 terms of written intercession. So your attendance at a written interview is at 16 percent. When exactly do you plan to arrive? I understand that you have responsibilities abroad, but there are important issues that are bothering citizens at written interviews, whether they are discounts on fare for disabled people, housing, energy security, socially excluded locations, preparations for the Presidency of the European Union or duplicate checks that have unfortunately failed to be discussed here because you have not shown up. I know you didn't come today, from what I saw, because you were at the stadium in Litvinov. Great, hockey's great. But I think Mrs. Dostálová could do it alone or with Mr. Hnilička. There were two of them, so they could negotiate the bleachers themselves. Would it be possible if you went to a written interview? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u83	Thank you and please the Prime Minister in the remaining time for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u84	Well, now the citizens of Litvínov know you don't want the stadium. They have an exception because they can't play extra league. And that stadium is more important than your interpellation. I ask, and it would be good for the citizens to ask why we have written interpelations. Exhibition here. What are written interpelations? You give me an interview, I'll answer it, and of course you're dissatisfied to exhibate here. That's why I don't go to a written interview. I'm not even gonna walk. It's not my job! And I, believe me, am working. I'm up in the morning, you're still asleep. So I went to Litvínov today, yes, to take it there, huh? So I was also in the excluded locality, etc. So I don't understand, let someone explain to me - and we're here to promise to change the Rules of Procedure - I don't know if Mr. Vondráček is here, he's not here - that we're going to work effectively. And explain to me what written interpelations are for. Written interpelation is when I answer Mr. Michálek here in writing, and he's dissatisfied, and priori is dissatisfied, and then the written... Total nonsense, right? [[Fun in the hall, laughter.]] Or I don't know, so tell me. I'm normal. Why is that? We're having oral inhalations. I'm here to dedicate - how much? An hour and a half, two hours. Not 14.30 to 16, that's an hour and a half. Do you know how many meetings that is, Mr. Ambassador? Very much. So we agree together that there will be a slippery mandate, don't we? And we're gonna get him! So if I'm still in the government, I won't be able to come here anymore because my job is in the government. That's where I'm supposed to work. I'm trying to answer you. But you know that those written interpelations are nonsense. You guys should cancel, and you better discuss those laws. Couldn't we make some kind of law so there wouldn't be any written interpelations? Because it's actually... I'm just saying again - I'm gonna answer you, and you're on purpose dissatisfied to talk here and actually attack this Babiš guy. Well, I understand, but... Okay, that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u85	Thank you. Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, since it is 4:01 p.m., I am ending the interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and we will continue with further proper interventions on government ministers. I call on Mr Ondřej Profant to give an interview to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport, Karel Havlíček, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr Martin Kupka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, simple and clear questions about the road signs system. Are there gonna be car traffic photos in the system? Will the system keep any information about transits? If such data are stored, under what legislation? In Law No 13/1997 Coll. the system is clearly described, but the images from the cameras or the passageways are not shown there. So they can only be as operational data that is immediately deleted, not stored in any way. And the most important question. Will you take responsibility for your Ministry and the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure compromising the security forces of this state by imposing on them their own incompetence, or even the corruption they committed in the award of this contract?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u87	Well, thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for asking. So we've already assumed the responsibility - I'll start with that because that's what it started from. You know, just because we didn't like the job, there were major measures taken. The crucial measures ended with the end of the Minister of Transport, which is not to say that there was at all costs something done in the meaning of the unlawful, but it is precisely for this reason that we have filed a criminal complaint, as it happens today. And that criminal report is to investigate whether or not something was created there. We didn't like the contract, the contract didn't match our point of view, what was expected of it, even in terms of functionality, and in terms of price. And immediately after we found out it was, we did. It has to be said that SFDI is an independent institution from this point of view. That wasn't the Ministry of Transport's contract. On the other hand, we argued, and I'm sure you've heard that it should have been handled significantly better. Now to the system. The system has several functions as designed. And that's why we contradicted the whole thing. That means the basic system, then the accessories. Among other things, accessories are associated with what you mentioned here, and these are cameras. The system isn't designed to spy on anyone. The system isn't made up, and it wasn't meant to confront anyone. On the other hand, it is also important to respect the interest of security forces, which, to some extent, simply need to cover their activities in quotation marks in terms of simply needing to do the work that serves the people who serve the institutions that serve the citizens, because security services are here to protect us from possible terrorist attacks, so that they can simply catch any criminal prosecuted persons, criminals, etc. So that's the essence of what they put in their demands. However, the camera system - and you may have already registered with the media today, because if I'm not mistaken, the BIS said so - was not meant to do so and was certainly not such a requirement that anything should be kept in any way. That means everyone here can be perfectly calm. And even the new tender that's going to be published certainly doesn't follow it, and it never even occurred that he should work with the citizens' records, keep them, archive them, or even somehow then work with them later. It's not like that. On the other hand, it is clear that if the car is passing through and the car is being scanned by the camera and the license plate is somehow identified, at least if it just paid or didn't pay, then, of course, the electronic trail is there, it can't be avoided, it's not technically possible. But there was no requirement of character to work with it any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u89	Is there an interest in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u90	I'm very happy for what you're saying, because I've studied those laws very closely. Before that, I also dealt with GDPR. And even recording passes there is simply nowhere legally accessible. It is clear that the purpose of this system is to control the highway sign. That means you can put a fine on those sinners. But the car data of passers-bys, which have everything in order, simply cannot be stored. But I have two additional questions based on your answer. Will Mr Kremlík continue to act as an advisor or deputy in the resort? Because this has been very difficult in the last few days and has often changed the Prime Minister's statement. And another question. Will you support Mr Polanský proposal to extend the powers of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure? Because she seems to have insufficient powers when she didn't keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u91	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u92	As for Mr Kremlík, we have no agreement with him, there is no economic relationship. I merely expressed a certain wish that a person who behaved there responsibly in terms of the approach to the resort that carried out a number of positive things there, thanks to him some projects last year, completed 35 kilometers of highways, and was a decent person and a hardworking person - yes, we acknowledge the manager could not handle the job, or rather I would say too much betting on the trust of some people under him or on organizational items, which therefore finally cost him the position of minister, so I was looking for some way to simply take over all the details, how to get into the details, which he obviously knows and knows. At this point, we haven't established any position, he won't be any deputy, he won't be political, they're not even there, political deputy. He won't even be an assistant professor. And the big question is, are we even gonna have a relationship there? It's about him thinking this through. But at this point, we are preparing a new organizational structure at the Ministry of Transport, and on this basis, selection procedures will be issued for all key positions. And then we'll talk about whether Mr. Kremlík's gonna be there in any way. At this point, it's premature, and let's give it some time. But it's really nothing more than that we just pass on all the information at some point, and that's what's being watched. As far as the SFDI Supervisory Board is concerned, I can't tell you how much more we're gonna design it at the moment. The fact is, there's been a whole series of failures. It's in general. And now it's really not political or ideological. This is simply a long-term problem for a number of organizational components of the state that the supervisory board and control mechanism failed there. The Supervisory Board says - they informed us late. They're saying - we gave it to the supervisory board. In any case, everyone was looking at it, and if we hadn't stepped in at government level, it might have looked different today. So let's consider whether the supervisory board will expand. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And most importantly, it's important that these people are active there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u93	I'll ask you to keep up with questions and answers. An apology. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes on 30. 1st between 16 and 21st for family reasons. I will ask Mr Martin Kupka to give an interview, once again to Mr Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u94	Dear Vice Prime Minister, my question, on the one hand, points to the resignation of the head of ČTÚ Jaromír Novák, but in particular, to what will be the next fate of the entire 5G network event in the Czech Republic. We all promise that the fourth operator will come to the Czech Republic, that the competitive conditions will improve significantly and that this will mean better services and lower prices for consumers as well as lower prices for consumers. After all, all previous steps related to the preparation of the event were explained. On Monday Jaromír Novák resigned. In the subsequent interviews and in the actual comments, this was justified by the pressure he received from the MIT, on your part, to intervene in the terms of the auction itself. Since this is a matter of reference, given that it is a matter from which the government undoubtedly also promises a significant improvement in the conditions for consumers as well as for the Czech Republic, I want to ask what those interventions looked like on your part, whether you influenced the terms of the auction and in what way you influenced them, how the auction will continue to evolve, when it should be announced and what you are promising from it at the moment. Whether we really have a chance to get a fourth operator, as everyone has announced and as everyone is hoping.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u95	Thank you. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u96	Thank you for asking. First of all, the ČTÚ is an independent regulatory authority which we cannot interfere with. We're one of the consulting sites we used. The fact is that we are closest to the ČTÚ because we appoint the ČTÚ Council, or we recommend members of the ČTÚ Board and subsequently the government agrees. The auction was issued approximately a year ago, and for almost six months, maybe even three quarters of a year, we pointed out in a rather fundamental way that there is a risk that, as the terms of the auction are announced, there may not be a heavy change that I agree with you, and that is that data services prices should be reduced over time while preparing the environment for 5G. That principle - and I would agree less - does not mean that there will only be a fourth operator. The fourth operator may be a little mantra that we're creating a feeling that if someone comes in fourth, it's going to change in a fundamental way. It could be the fourth, but it could also be two smaller. The important thing is that it creates an environment that should enable what I said and on which I repeat, I think we agree. And we agreed on this with the Czech ČTÚ, on the goal. The problem was that we disagreed - but we were just a consultative place - on how to prepare the auction. We have warned several times that she is not attractively prepared, we have pointed out several times that it can only be for one student who has repeatedly shown his interest. Nothing against it, but the fact was that we were aware of the very sensitive information from the security forces, and they pointed out that there was and may be some non-standard steps. We were assured that the auction would go well, we were assured that it would accomplish its purpose, we were assured that there would be a sufficiently good competitive environment for those who would report for it. The finals were such that just before the auction was launched it was almost certain that there would be zero foreign candidates, that there would most likely be only one domestic candidate, who was notabene half to three quarters of the year known about. And at that point, we are aware of the information we had from the security forces that there have been a number of non-systemic steps that could jeopardise the credibility of the entire auction, at the moment we could not do anything other than propose that the auction be restructured, redesigned. It wasn't about the President in principle, it was about making an auction new, maybe a little bit different in terms of simply resetting the terms for, say, other participants than those who showed interest at a given time, and in a few months preparing the auction actually a new one so that what we wanted was fulfilled. As far as President Novák is concerned, I have said several times that he is a man of expertise, but a man who has not managed his work. Ad one that prepared the auction so, or under his leadership, it prepared so that in the finals what was pointed out three quarters of a year, that there would be only one interested party, so that's exactly how it turned out that one interested party was. And ad two on that, and I have said this several times in the past, that driving inside the office and driving outside the office was inadequately consistent and from our point of view insufficient quality. Finally, the way the market works here, and the fact that we are in a situation where data is relatively expensive, especially for smaller or cheaper tariffs, is also due to the way the ČTÚ actually approached the market. However, the better news is that thanks to the government, but thanks to the Chamber of Deputies, the law on electronic communications has been pushed through, which will be valid from 1 April and will be one of the first concrete steps in which it will actually begin to approach another operator more easily, and thus we expect the price of mobile data to fall. The second thing is that it has also become very active at the level of government to deal with individual operators, and there are also the first steps that prices are falling. So far, we're doing well on the so-called higher tariffs. Unfortunately, it's still not the same in the lower tariffs. Yes, we expect that the auction that should in any case take place in the coming months - a matter of three, four months - could help. And one more thing to say, and it is important that the auction needs to change what the European Commission has pointed out to all operators, and this is that the sharing of networks currently with us is, as a result, preventing further investment, preventing further innovation, and thus preventing comfort, or consumer comfort, reduces the consumer comfort of individual customers. This, too, is an important thing that we have pointed out and which must be put into the terms of the new auction. Otherwise, it is nothing at all extraordinary, so the auction is simply being restructured and there has to be an agreement between the Czech Television and professional actors, including the government, in order for the auction to fulfil its purpose. [[Time warning]] Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u97	Is the Member interested in an additional question? Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u98	However, the individual stages of the auction procedure were publicly accessible, it was possible to follow the ČTÚ website as the work develops, it was mentioned publicly. You mentioned that you discovered nonsystemic steps there, and I quote literally. I want to ask you what kind of unsystemic steps you specifically discovered there were supposed to be. I would also like to ask how the terms of the auction procedure will change, for example, whether the obligation to provide roaming services to existing operators who naturally resisted it will be released, but it may significantly bind the possibility for anyone else to enter, whether there are one, two, to be smaller or larger. How will you please answer these comments and questions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u99	Thank you. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u100	We were participants in public consultations. Of course, they're traceable. Among other things, we suggested that it should be reduced so-called. the excavation price, for the reason that we thought that if it was lower, it would attract more smaller operators, who, besides the one who always said that, could stand next to him, and even could not only participate, but could also be simply those who would receive certain frequencies. That was not accepted, but we respected the expert opinion to some extent. We're not just here to lecture the ČTÚ. We have only said our opinion, and if the Czech ČTÚ says, in simple terms, do not speak so much into it, we will hear something, something not - they have heard very little, but I respect it - we will create it so that it works well, we will take it. I don't have the slightest problem with that. But it didn't work out. That's the problem. That means we don't mind the CTU's access. What bothers us is that if the comments were not accepted and it didn't work out in the finals, and it was obvious that it didn't turn out that there was really only one candidate, then we consider it a mistake. And what was in those nonsystemic steps, it's in the security mode. We keep getting the messages and getting them right. These are reports that were important, reports that clearly showed that many unsystematic steps are taking place there. It was news that warned us about a whole series of things. We could tell some, but we couldn't tell some, we could only insinuate them, but we have to work with them. However, we tried to transfer some to the Bureau or the Chairman of the Czech Television, to explain our position to them, to some extent to warn him. None of this was taken into account. And with all due respect, I can't afford to be aware of certain information, serious information, knowing that it would turn out for one partner, that it looked like it was going to happen for him, not to do it. Besides, we didn't cancel the tender. We gave a clear recommendation to rephrase, and in the meantime Mr Novák resigned, or at the same time he was dismissed, but that is just a technical matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u101	Thank you for keeping up the time for the answer. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Mrs Olga Richterová will interpel Mrs Jana Maláčová. I'm gonna read an apology before it gets there. Mr Jan Schiller apologizes today between 16.30 and 21.00 for reasons of work. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u102	Hello, honourable members of the government, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I want to return to the topic of preschool care, to the topic of children's groups, previously called a nursery. My point is that it fell out of the government's legislative plan for this year, and last year a motion was sent to comment proceedings, however, after we too sent, I think, quite factual and detailed comments, nothing happened. Now we don't know where it's parked, but everything seems to be missing a deal between the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Labour. I've already asked that question in Mr. Prime Minister's previous interviews. He said, "Now it's gonna go to the government." He also confirmed that he dealt with the topic, it was beautifully written about it in Zhau, but he didn't answer the question when it would go to the government, and he didn't answer if he would support the agreement on relatively expensive but in the finals for society by financing good quality care for young children. He just said that the Ministry of Education agreed with your ministry, Madam Secretary. So my question is simple, if there really is a plan, that the comments will be settled and the government will be fine, and if so, in what horizon. Maybe there were specific figures in the building bill that it would be in May. So I'm wondering when. Then - what's the deal with the Ministry of Finance, and if I have to interpel the Prime Minister again, that he really doesn't have to act specifically, and he just doesn't write people about it in Hey. I'll be very happy to know how it moves, because it's an important topic for the whole company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u103	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u104	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question to the children's groups. Yes, indeed, there has been an inter-ministerial review procedure recently regarding the proposal for a law on nursery, not on children's groups. I came up with the idea that I wanted to rename the children's groups, but it's based on the Children's Group Act. At that last coalition council, I'll admit that I don't know if it was a week ago or two weeks ago, we reached an agreement at the coalition level on how to settle comments. Basically, to sum up, the agreement concerns that the law should be effective from 1. 1. 2022, because we still have funding from the European Social Fund for 2021. We would like to put age groups on the ground, because we already have over a thousand children's groups in which about 15,000 children are placed, two thirds of them under three years of age, and it is also the innovation that the European Commission is calling for. We would like to rename them a nursery and we would like - because you know that there are overlays and children are not born with ties to the beginning of schooling, to the beginning of the school year, so we would like to allow them for children until their fourth birthday. I'm talking about a state grant. Of course, children can be placed in the nursery until the beginning of schooling, but without the state subsidy. We are still discussing the state subsidy, but we would like to make it flexible, which means that the legislative regulation will be enshrined in the rule of law for a child for a month, through its regulation. This means that it will be possible to adjust this normality flexibly. And at this point, we're talking about CZK 7,500 a month, which means that's the amount that's most often called for. We also agreed that the maximum priority is this, and the Prime Minister mentioned it so that children's groups, or a nursery, would be financed from the European Social Fund, if you wish. At this point, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is negotiating with the representatives of the European Commission and we have some mutual idea at this time that the first few years of the new programming period could actually be financed by the ESF for children under the age of three. For me, it is important that it is not at project management level, which means that it will compete between the founders and that this is about who will click the fastest and have the fastest project, but simply anyone who will comply with the legal conditions and will actually do everything as it should, so he will be entitled to the subsidy, as the law currently provides. That means, if I'm to sum it up, the effectiveness of the law from 1. 1. 2022. Last week, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs sent this proposal to the Government Legislative Council. We have a coalition agreement and a priority will be to finance it from the European Social Fund, but it is important that it is a pre-school care facility that is financially and locally available and is targeted at children under three years of age.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u105	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u106	Thank you so much for a very pleasing answer. Thank you very much for the information that the deal is coming up. After all, I would like to say that maybe we don't need that name change for us. In fact, children's groups will have quite a lot of financial costs with a name change, but let's not debate that now. I'm just wondering if the financing proposal for CZK 7,500 is really a match, or if it's still more of a start to the debate, because in the end, it's, I understand, what's going on. I'm really glad that you're planning on doing this claim while you're fulfilling the terms and conditions for it to be funding, that's exactly what it is. I have one more question. Is this linked to an increase in funding for kindergarten actually, or will it still be separated? Just so I know what the situation is planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u107	Please, Madam Secretary, if you're interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u108	I'll start from the back. The system will actually copy the system that is common in many Member States of the European Union, which means pre-school education is responsible under the competence law of the Department of Education, the pre-school care will be responsible for the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. It follows logically that these are two separate laws. As far as the amount is concerned, as I have pointed out, we do not have a match at this time. We are acting, but we have decided to separate the setting of the law from the government's regulation, which can be updated annually. At this point, the amount of CZK 7,500 is to be discussed. But we don't have a match like I mentioned before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u109	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u110	Dear Minister, allow me to welcome you to the new post of Minister of Transport in the intercessions. I think it's also our prime minister's interpellation with regard to transport. I trust you'll do better than your predecessors. I would like to contact you with an interpellation regarding the charging of first-class roads, respectively. the unpaid ones. From the beginning, we criticized and considered this step inappropriate and inconsistent. Shortly after the introduction of tolls on the roads of the first classes, it begins to show that reality is right. In fact, carriers and their trucks quickly found their way around the roads of the first classes, which are not charged, avoiding the paid sections. For the time being, this is mainly the case with local carriers, but I think, given that we have seen an increase of tens of percent, which shows up where it is measured, and it's only the beginning, because what happens when foreign carriers notice it? [[16.30 hours]] I know you've only been in office for a short time, but I would like to draw your attention to this serious problem. I would like to ask you how you are looking at this non-conceptual procedure in the case of first-class road charging, whether you already have any actual figures, how developments are taking place on such sections and whether you intend to respond to this situation. Because we have many examples here, such as the I/2 road from Prague to Kutná Hora via Mukařov, where citizens petitioned; Kostelec nad Černé lesy; North Bohemian Mimoň is starting to complain; or Vyruby, headed by Mr. Mayor Bernard, is already recording a record increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u111	Thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u112	Madam, thank you for your question. I certainly don't want to make excuses or throw things at my colleagues. So let's just assume that I'm responsible for all of this today. However, I think it might demonize a little bit here. You said that this was happening in a number of places, that there was an increase of tens of percent. And I think in a good way right now, I need that information. I need to know where it is. I'd need to know, if you have it measured, you're saying tens of percent, so you can prove it. Of course, we are also beginning to measure it. We need to compare the data because it's just 860 km of first-class roads. In view of certain regional concerns, in order to avoid this, a specific working group has been set up, which is beginning to monitor this very much, starting to create tools so that this does not happen. There are representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Interior, Environment, SFDI, ŘSD, Association of Regions, Union of Towns and Municipalities, local government. And if I have the right information, Madame, you are also in that group, which I think is good. So you know that short-term measures and long-term measures are being dealt with there. The short-term ones include certain possible restrictions on the entry of vehicles under Section 24a, the extension of certain performance-paid first-class roads, or simply long-term measures such as the definition of offences for infringements, etc., restrictions on transit even on second- and third-class roads by law, etc. For the time being, I must add that the Ministry of Transport is of the opinion that it will not take place to the extent that some might have been concerned about the new toll roads. However, it is one thing to believe, the other to have something to support. That means, I really don't want to be too bossy here right now to say, nothing's happening, it can't happen. That is why the group should work, it should evaluate it, without emotion, without any political intention, and actually decide where it may be, and immediately begin to do so. According to my information, the Ministry of Transport has not received any complaints about the increase in freight transport within the 860 km of the first class. However, on the other hand, it must be said that it is necessary to demonstrate crediblely what the situation was before and what the situation is today, that is to measure it. That's all it is. The time where it works is not yet long enough for us to evaluate it this way. But I'm ready, as on other things, to discuss constructively with you. And if you can prove to us that there's a problem somewhere, I promise we'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u113	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u114	I have information from the press that there was an increase of about 30% on two completely parallel roads of the first classes in Blatná and Katovice on Strakonick, so that's probably where the census took place. And a number of municipalities are going to carry out measurements - for example, in Mukařov from February it will be the measurement. I think even in the Church over the Black Forests they're going to do it. And I'm sure the all-Všeruby can give you some numbers, too. So I'm asking, if, according to the measurement of municipalities, there really is a big increase, then the Ministry of Transport is willing to discuss whether or not the unpaid ones, where the increase took place, would be charged, and in what time horizon this is possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u115	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u116	Yes. And, of course, you'll be able to be there because you're part of the group that prepares these measures. And as part of those measures, what you said is like alternatives. So then we have to tell each other. We really need to prove to ourselves that this is where the problem is. And that's why the group was created to actually be able to respond to it immediately. I think she's balanced enough. There are basically all resorts, regions, Union of cities and municipalities, etc. So I dare say that this is the most relevant set of those who have an impact on regional infrastructure and transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u117	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Pavel Plzák with an interview with Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u118	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Minister, perhaps an open letter has also come into your hands, with which the principal of the primary school and the mayor of the town of Úpice have contacted me as Members of the Královéhradecký Region. I have the letter right here. [[He's pointing.]] If you do not have it, I can give it to you later. About that letter, my colleague Karel Rais has already intersected you last time. What's going on? The city is currently struggling with the emergence of a number of socially undesirable events associated with the creation of so-called excluded localities. But I consider the most serious approach of families from these locations to the basic education of their children. Teachers and teachers must constantly deal with catastrophic school attendance, absolute lack of interest in teaching, problematic behavior, refusal to help a school assistant, poor hygiene habits, and so on. The school is unable to deal with these negative phenomena in its own strength and does not have enough authority to do so either. The school is supposed to be educated, but the family has to be raised. No school can replace her in that. Of course, a number of other cities in which similar socially excluded localities arose are also trying to cope with this situation. That is why they are, of course, asking the state for help and for resources to address this situation, because it has a negative effect on citizens who work properly, raise their children and finance social aid from their taxes for those so-called inadaptable fellow citizens. I know the solution won't be easy. But I and the citizens and teachers from Úpice ask: 1. How does the state intend to address the disastrous attendance of children in school, often apologized to their parents? 2. How does the state intend to force parents to lead their children to discipline and decent conduct in school and to interest in teaching? [[Attention on time.]] 3. By what means does the State prevent parents from tolerate the loss and damage of the teaching aids that these children receive free of charge? 4. By what means will the child immediately apply for schooling after each family move to his new home? Which sometimes doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u119	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to keep up the time for the interpelation, and I'm gonna ask the secretary for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, thank you for your intervention, which concerns, in particular, respect for basic compulsory schooling, which is the domain of my dear colleague, Minister Plaga, who is the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. However, I also deal with this issue, in connection with the revision of benefits, because the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is then dealing with young people or children who end early school attendance for the rest of their lives. In particular, they are the clients of our employment offices in terms of employment as well as applications for non-insurable social benefits in particular. I think that's a really big problem we're facing here. That is why I am trying to tematize him and I am trying to find some solution especially in conjunction with Minister Plaga, because, for example, in the Ústí Region, 16 percent of the children of each year finish without finishing school. I often say, and now I apologize for the folk expression, we then these children, or these clients of ours can be requalified from morning to evening, but if they have neither completed nor primary schooling, they are very difficult to place on the labour market. And these children are really increasing in each year, and the percentage increase is increasing. [[16.40 hours]] Ten years ago, in various finds, for example, the European Commission said that even in our excluded localities, it is very positive that we do not face illiteracy. Unfortunately, this is no longer true. Over the past ten years, it's shifted fundamentally, the number of excluded sites has tripled, and I think it's a really time bomb. That without the children being literate, at least their primary school attendance was over, they didn't have a future. And I think we should all deal with this and not just in the relationship with receiving social benefits. I think that basic compulsory schooling is compulsory and that it is, in particular, the role of parents to ensure that their children go to school. And I think these parents should have the incentivism to do it. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I can deal with this through the already mentioned non-insurable social benefits, which is why at the moment the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, which has been completed, so we have tabled a proposal to him to make those last benefits that are not conditional, i.e. housing benefits, housing allowances and housing supplements to be subject to school attendance. I realize very well that this is a non-systemic solution. I say very long and consistently that if someone comes up with a better idea, if someone comes up with a better idea of how to get these kids to school because it's their future, I'm very happy to accept it. Unfortunately, there is no other better idea at the moment. And I think it is in the interest of all of us to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u121	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u122	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. You moved it a little bit to the education sector, but the schools are doing their best. They have assistants there, but the assistant at school is, but the baby's not coming. Because he won't get up in the morning because his parents don't get up either. And I understand the restriction may have some effect, but correct me if I'm wrong, so maybe it's the restriction if the number of unforgivable hours exceeds a limit. But it's about your parents making excuses for your kids for hours. They apologize for family reasons, for health reasons and so on. So I'm afraid this leverage, if it's like I think it will not have an effective solution. And I was just begging you here, and I know that the Ministry of Education is up against this restriction, so let them come up with some other help. Because as far as I know and as far as I've been informed, I've been there, I've been working there even in the Úpici, so the problem is that the OSPOD is completely defenseless. OSPOD has no more or less powers, and those families are not doing anything about some kind of OSPOD attendance into families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u123	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u124	Yes, that's right, which is why I think you should interpel my colleague in particular. However, I can go through the paths I have chosen. I want social work in the municipalities to be substantially strengthened. I can't do this without it. And I say consciously - in the municipalities. That's the best working system. The second very well - functioning system is that parents who rob their children of the future do not care for their children to go to school, suffer consequences. We can talk about the technique of how to do this, but at the moment the best-functioning systems are the method of sugar and whips, I apologize for the folk rate. And I'm willing to discuss it, but every month and every year we discuss it nicely, so we're growing the number of kids going off into the field without finishing their compulsory primary schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u125	Thank you. Next is Mr. Pavel Jelínek with an interview for Mr. Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the Railway Administration has been the Railway Administration since 1 January 2020. The railway infrastructure manager in the Czech Republic has been using a new name since the new year. On the web Zdopravy.cz was quoted by the drafter of the law colleague Feranec: "The name is very neck-and-neck, he has survived. SŽDC was founded in 2002, had only 170 employees, today SŽDC is farther away, has 17 000 employees." I did not read any considered reasons for renaming in the explanatory memorandum, which is why I expected to open a press release issued by the Railway Administration itself. In a subtitle that sounds Why did the name of our state organization be renamed and where would it manifest itself everywhere? However, I have only read that the change in the name of our state organization from the Railway Infrastructure Administration to the Railway Administration occurred on the basis of the Act amending Act No 266/1994, on Railways, as amended, and other related laws. In addition, the press release states: Our organization immediately started the necessary legal and other acts in connection with the name change. One of the reasons for the renaming I perceived was the relatively long name of the Railway Infrastructure Administration. However, the press release states: At the same time, we point out that only two variants can be used in the designation of the name of our organization, namely Railway Administration, State Organisation or Railway Administration. No other names, but in particular the use of any abbreviations is permitted. The reason for unsuitability may be confusion with Slovenian railway company Slovenia's railroad. It may also be inappropriate to agree with the historical name of the Slovak Railways, which arose after 14 March 1939 in the formation of the Slovak Staff. [[Attention on time.]] My question is simple. How much has it cost so far to simplify a name that must not be used in short terms and therefore is not? And how much will the total bill cost to change the work clothes and more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u127	Thank you and I would really like to keep an eye on the time for interpelation and response. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u128	Thank you so much for asking. It's quite an interesting marketing discussion as well. Although I'm only briefly on transport, I'm not sure if anyone would ask ordinary people in the past what SŽDC is, that anyone would even be able to say what it means. I think that such an intuitive view should maybe lead to the fact that it should be renamed, because these names are meant to be used by consumers, people, and indeed by the SŽDC, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, I dare say that almost no one could have cracked it, however perhaps in the past it may have made some sense. So that was the main reason - to simplify, which you correctly said, Mr. Ambassador, that the name was crooked, and now it was looking for some kind of graspable title. SŽ, virtually. Railway management is logical from this point of view. It is correct and undoubtedly it was, as I have information, communicated with a number of marketing experts. Not to mention that it builds on the original designation and to some extent simplifies it in a fundamental way. The legislative change took place hand in hand with the so-called rebranding chili with rebranding. And to some extent it was linked to the whole change in the visual concept of this key state institution. That is why, in the end, the Ministry of Transport with the legislative change - I would like to make it clear to Mr Kolovratník that this was the proposal of Mr Kolovratník, who was then joined by his colleague Feranec. But that's a detail. You have also rightly said that only the SŽ can confuse it a little bit with the fact that there is a Slovenian, not a Slovak railway carrier, which is called oddly not the Slovenian railway, but the Slovak railway, I have checked it out - but it should probably not be confused there in some way, because this Slovenian railway carrier does not operate on the territory of the Czech Republic and there should not be any conflict. The important thing you asked is how much it's gonna cost. The costs, as I have calculated, should move to complete rebranding, branding, in the order of millions of crowns. So far, the amount of CZK 5 million is assumed, which should include a comprehensive implementation plan of the whole process and everything associated with it. As I mentioned earlier, the change, the redesign, has already begun, is starting gradually. And it is also worth mentioning that a number of things and steps have been prepared for this process so as not to regenerate any additional costs. This means different documents, old descriptions or logos etc. In other words, the resort prepared for it, respectively. Railroad management has prepared for this to commute old things and to find new things. Similarly, the inscriptions on buildings will be exchanged continuously only during reconstruction or investment, which means, therefore, the amount, I believe, is relatively very reasonable for such a large, significant organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u129	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u130	I just briefly, because the Railway Infrastructure Administration or the Railway Administration is, I would say, a professional organisation. Probably no regular passenger will say he's going to the Railway Administration station, but he's just going to the train station, so I don't think it's that important to change the name for the ordinary citizen. Maybe it bothers me more if we know the Slovak Railways will never work here, why not just allow the shortcut. It would be really shortening and some sort of production. I guess that's it. But I'm afraid the cost will be higher overall, because it won't just be in the title and in the paperwork, but it'll just be in other labels. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u131	Minister, is he interested? No. So let's move on. The next in line is Mrs Dana Balcarová for Minister Richard Brabec, who is probably not present at the moment. Please. You can interpelate. If the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Okay, so you're dropping your interpellation. The next in line is Mr Jaroslav Martinů with an interview on Mr Miroslav Toman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u132	Have a good day. Minister Toman is missing again, and I will personally wait for him, so thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u133	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will speak to Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, who is present and will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u134	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the last section of the Prague circuit was opened in 2010, ten years ago. In those ten years, the ANO Department of Transport has been holding the ANO movement for the seventh year. Unfortunately, during that time, the preparation of this key building has not moved. For example, the construction of the section between Běchovice and D1 was to start in 2017. Then we moved to 2021. Now we are back a year away and the start of construction is planned for 2022. The whole circuit should be finished in 2028, so 10 did not really kick into the ground. Mr. Secretary, I've been reading everywhere lately how super executive you are. So do you have a plan to make sure that the completion is done within eight years? Have you familiarized yourself with the issue of this key transport construction? How is it possible that such delays arise, and what concrete steps will you take to prevent the Pražan from being constantly restricted by transit from all over the Republic, so that we are the last capital in Europe that does not have a circuit?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u135	Thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u136	Dear Member, thank you so much for asking. I mean, I'm not even a super executive manager, I'm mostly a responsible manager, and that's what I went to work with, because I think there's something to fix after you. But as far as Prague is concerned, you know this is not an entirely simple matter. And that's why the construction law is changing. Among other things, this is why we discussed the government proposal here yesterday after many and many years on the so-called Line Act. These are all fundamental matters of a legislative nature that should have just been done here a long time ago and which we are trying to change at the moment, and you know that it is not entirely simple. In any case, as far as the agreement with the capital city of Prague is concerned, there has been an agreement with the capital city of Prague on the unchangeableness of the route, which I think is a very important excavation, and it is therefore set at this moment in the principles of territorial development of both Prague and the Central Bohemia Region. And now specifically, as you mentioned, you have a whole bunch of things right there. The south-eastern segment, Běchovice and D1, or so-called 511, is currently in place to settle objections and any comments under the territorial procedure. You know, it's on Uhříněvs, which is very specific from this point of view. The Building Authority has now contacted the authorities concerned with a proposal to settle the comments, asking for their consent to the settlement. And I say again, that's why, among other things, we're trying to change the building bill. And I believe that we will succeed and that the House will proceed to that. The originally announced date of the zoning decision was in March 2020 and it should be said that it is again threatened by this. However, it can be expected with certainty that an appeal will take place after the zoning decision is given, which will be addressed by the City of Prague. The legal power of the territorial decision can be expected at the end of 2020. But Prague and I are trying to buy out land, which together for the main route and Prague are monitored, so-called green belts. Comprehensive property preparation can be started at the time of the final territorial decision, and documentation for the building permit is therefore designed with the risk of the absence of the site. Even with optimistic developments that are unlikely, the start of the construction cannot be expected before the end of 2022. Now the northern segment, Ruzyne, Suchdol, Březineves, that's 518, 519. There is a need to repeat the EIA process from 18. 12. 2019, when the Ministry of Finance issued conclusions of the investigation procedure, where it laid down clear conditions for the EIA documentation, and one of those essential conditions is to address all relevant variants. Only variants consistent with the concept of a territorial decision may be relevant in this case. Among other things, ŘSD processes technical studies for variant solutions and then includes them in the result of the assessment and in the EIA documentation. And now the last, northeast segment, Březineves, Satalice. A technical study containing three variants significantly differing in the extent of the deepening, or the extent of the tunnel sections, and thus logically also the costs, which are calculated between 9 billion and 21 billion so far. 12. 2. 2020 will be presented to the mayors, which I think is good news, and according to feedback, the Ministry of Transport will, of course, decide on a variant that will be implemented or monitored within the EIA process. As for time, the launch of this construction in the current state of preparation, from our point of view irresponsible yet to anticipate, but the optimistic term could be 2026. Of course, if consent is given to the municipalities concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u137	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. I see you do. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u138	Thank you for your answer. So your answer shows that the 2028 term, which is now defined, isn't real, because the moment you start discussing a change in tracking, it's going to take six years after the tracking agreement. Less, I don't believe that legal regulation of line structures will change that in a fundamental way. What, then, is your idea or an estimate of when we might view the circuit as a promise to the Pragueans that it will be completed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u139	Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u140	Thank you. I understand the question, but on my part, it would be irresponsible for me to answer that now. Not because I'm in that position for a short time, but because that's why we're trying to change the legislation. Both the construction law and the line law. If everything just goes well and we can handle that line bill this year, then from our point of view, everything should be reduced by about a third. So far, according to all the technical evidence, it could actually come to this, but I really don't feel competent at this point in time to say a date that you could just stand up for, and I'm sorry for that, but I'm prepared for some further interpelation, even considering how these laws are going to develop, of course, and we can figure it out in person. [[Nesroz.]] I think it's important that we agree on that. And I'm sure we can also agree that the state of legislation, and we mean how the construction law works and the Linen Act, is unsatisfactory. And if we rise above who's caused all this in the last twenty years, twenty-five years of inactivity, then we have a chance, this House, to change that, and it would be a great shame if we didn't take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u141	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková, with an interview with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, the pension system is currently at a crossroads. If some adjustments are not made in the foreseeable future, future generations may no longer be able to count on it 100%. In your opinion, as you have said in the media, it is therefore necessary to start discussing the need for young generations to make a mandatory contribution to their pension. I'm sure I agree with you that every person should think about old age, but it is important to realize that a large part of the citizens have nothing to save from. That's why I've prepared a model situation for you. Imagine, Madam Secretary, that you live in the Karlovy Vary Region and you have a salary of 15,000 net, which is nothing unusual in our region. From this part you will pay CZK 9,000 for services, water and rent for rented apartment, because you will not save on your own salary. And you'll pay CZK 1,000 for electricity, CZK 500 for the phone. So you have 4.5 thousand crowns left for 30 days, from which you have to pay your way to work, which is about 1.5 thousand crowns, and we are at 3,000 crowns. From this you have to eat and pay for hygienic needs and save yourself for clothing, which during the year you simply have to buy. Can you tell me, Madam Secretary, how much of the CZK 3,000 did you save for your retirement? And how would you eat?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u143	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, you obviously listened to the debate on Sunday in the Prima Parti, where we spoke on the subject of pension reform, and, of course, the debate was more comprehensive than what you have just used from it. I - it was not only at this point - said that it would simply have to look for a solution to pensions for the future, there could be a number of solutions, and I also mentioned a higher involvement of citizens. But I didn't make any explicit mandatory - I didn't know exactly where your interpelation was going, so I was only coming out of that piece of interpelation. That means I wasn't talking about any mandatory contributions from anyone, whether young people or other groups, but I was talking about some higher involvement. And I talked about it because there is already a supplementary pension savings, so-called. The third pillar, which simply has the competence of the Ministry of Finance, and it is conceived as a voluntary product, which even minors can participate in, means for which the contributions are then paid by their parents. And I have opened up a debate on whether one of the trips, I am not saying that the only one, should not be the subject precisely for a mandatory involvement, but this, of course, involves a number of questions that need to be discussed, and I say honestly they are not at the moment, and those questions would be, for example, the possible amount of the contribution, the possibility of stopping payment if, for example, a person got into the situation that you described in your model case, that can, of course, happen, and other similar things that would have to be discussed. It is true that young people, and finally we can see from those data from the third pillar, focus more on family security and housing than focus on saving a pension. But at the moment we are focusing on the conditions for providing a state contribution and any adjustments to it, because actually, when you save, you know that there is a certain state contribution involved, and you can also deduct it as a form of item that is deducted from the tax base. So at this point, there's no proposal on the table. At this point, we are not proposing any mandatory participation in the third pillar, because it cannot be done separately from any visions that would involve pension reform, we do not plan it, it is not in the government's programming statement, but I said it could be one of the ways. And I have an interesting one - I can give it to you, I had them pull out this afternoon - an interesting table that is designed according to the age of the savers. That means, it's an age, I don't know, up to 39, 40 to 64, from 65, then zero and more years, it's still a summary, and I have it according to the amount of the contribution. This means who saves 300, 399 crowns, 400, 990 etc., and I have the number of actually those who participate in this voluntary third pillar. Overall, it's over 4 million people. I don't know if it's very, very little, I can't quite consider it right now, but I just opened it up and I said it was a certain way. Because if you look abroad, there are actually some of these forms of pension savings quite well known, it's nothing new. We're built the way we're built. A group of people are involved. And, of course, I'm sensing that you've described some sort of model situation here. I understand that such a situation may exist. There is also a question simply whether such a person would perhaps not reach any benefits, and then there would have to be conditions for any interruption of payment etc., but this is too many technical things that are not on the table at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u145	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't expect you to answer specifically. Rather, I wanted you to think about the fact that a large proportion of citizens really have nothing to save from, because they are dealing with situations to survive from month to month, and I wanted to open the question if there were ever any mandatory retirement savings, if it would not be more appropriate from some age to higher. Maybe I'll give you an example - 35 and higher. Because it might discourage young people from starting families, because we already have high income levies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u147	Certainly, Madame, such a debate would like a broad consensus. It should not only be a question of the government coalition, but of the political parties, because we would not want to experience what was already here once, that an unfortunate second pillar was created, which was then rather abolished, because it simply did not have meaning. By the time it was introduced, all the surrounding states were retreating from it, so I'm sure they were. Those are the parameters that are not discussed today, not on the table, maybe not even political will. I have been looking at the draft pension committee that is now working, so it has not been too concerned with this issue so far to process it in some way. So it was kind of a thought when we were talking about the debate that we could choose. There really are more. This should be one of them, and of course these things you say should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u148	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Barbora Kořanová with an interview with Minister Jan Hamáček, who is excused. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Vice-President of the Government, I would like to ask you today about the registration of foreigners in the Czech Republic. I have devoted almost a year to this issue because the Pilsen Region is very affected by the influx of foreign workers, especially those on short-stay visas. So I'm wondering if you think the parameters of the current log are set well. At the same time, I would like to ask whether it would be real for you to provide this information to representatives of self-government, without any prior registration, ideally on the basis of the request of a given self-governing body, community or city. And my third question will concern the possible compulsory registration of foreigners who are citizens of the European Union and therefore do not have to register in the Czech Republic today. However, I have information from Principal Novotná of your office that this obligation exists in some countries. Do you think it would be possible to introduce this obligation in the Czech Republic? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u150	Thank you. This interview will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And we will proceed to another interview, which is Mr Petr Bendl to Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u151	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, there is a traffic sign in the Czech Republic for the ban on overtaking trucks. According to my information, no fine has yet been imposed on this measure, apparently no one is involved in this matter, does not control it, does not enforce it. Perhaps if someone were to deal with the situation, I mean especially the Police of the Czech Republic, we would find out in practice what this law actually brings, whether we should even talk about a flat ban on overtaking, or whether it would be better to introduce measures in some parts, so-called. variable markings. You were not at the hearing last week of the relevant law that deals with this, which is why I am interested in your opinion as to how you are looking at the introduction of a general ban on overtaking trucks and whether it would really be better to introduce variable markings in some locations and where this is evaluated as a key measure, it would remain there, but also to be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u152	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u153	Dear Member, thank you for asking. As you've begun your interpelation, it's true that it doesn't just fall on the transport resort. I can't tell you why the police won't tell anyone who doesn't follow the rules. This must be directed at Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, if necessary. I can comment on this from the point of view of the transport resort, which does not agree with the general ban on overtaking trucks, which you certainly know. It's been discussed here in the past few days. Why we disagree with the general ban - it is important to keep saying the general ban. Since the current wording of the Road Traffic Act regulates the general conditions of driving in lanes, thus overtaking, I do not want to go into too much detail here, but according to § 12 para. 4 this is the case that over 3.5 tonnes, if the delivery exceeds 7 metres, can only use two lanes closest to the right side of the road, and in others it can if it rotates, bypass something or bypass an extraordinary turn. According to Section 36 of the truck driver of more than 3.5 tonnes of total weight and more than 7 metres must not pass another vehicle unless the overtake has sufficient speed. Maybe that's what you were referring to, if the police are checking it enough. But like I said, it's not really a question for me or our resort. It is then necessary to take into account the very important current legislation, that is seventy-seven, which also allows, by establishing local traffic arrangements on roads, to limit the driving of certain categories of road vehicles only to defined lanes, with the possibility of adapting such restrictions to the state of the particular section of the road, current traffic situation or climatic conditions. It is therefore possible to use either a specific ban mark, the so-called B22a, which is a ban on overtaking for trucks or the IP21 mark, restrictions in the lane, or add a traffic sign to the ban on entering trucks. At the same time, all traffic signs can be used in the form of variable marking, which is also important, enabling them to respond flexibly to current conditions, at any time, not only at the so-called defined time. Of course, we do not want to repeat the unfortunate event of December 12, 2018, which some of us surely remember, when due to the high catastrophic situation the D1 has been blocked, and that is why ŘSD has created a certain new regime for this reason and provides for a so-called transitional arrangement of traffic on motorways which prohibits overtaking or driving in certain lanes precisely for trucks, while those traffic signs should be installed, by chance tomorrow, for the period from 30 April 2020. It should be specifically on motorways D1 or on selected sections of motorways D1, D5, D8 and D11. So maybe I've partially satisfied your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u154	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u155	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I also intersected Minister Hamáček, unfortunately he was not present and he was not present last week, so he did not answer me. I believe he will answer in writing. Anyway, it seems to me that you guys should be communicating with each other somehow. The Ministry of Transport should know that the Ministry of the Interior, by extension the Police of the Czech Republic, does not control this, so the introduction of new and new brands without being checked is quite redundant and the problem will not actually solve it. I understand your answer that you do not agree with the general measure that you consider them as measures in certain locations where you see it as important. The problem is that no one checks it anyway and doesn't enforce it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u156	Thank you. The Minister is interested, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u157	If I had to say it with exaggeration, you could put an interior resort with the 24 interpelations, then it would be completely complete. But I understand that this is not just about interpelling Members. Like you, I'm sure you can communicate with Mr. Hamáček other than through interpellation, so I can communicate with him. And I don't want to be making excuses about why the police aren't checking and why somebody hasn't told him in the past. For me and this is relatively new information, but in any case, you can work with it. I think there's one thing we're looking for, and that's if there's some kind of brand and there's some kind of restriction, so that it's kept to that, of course, that the police are doing in this. So even without exaggeration, I'm saying I'm going to do it. I will also ask my colleague Hamáček how this is evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u158	Next in line is Mr Jan Bauer with an interview with Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u159	Madam Secretary, I have recently become familiar with one case of foster care that remains a healthy common sense, perhaps even needs to sit down. So let me just ask you a few questions. The ECHO Journal reported on a case where a minor girl was entrusted with foster care following disputes with her parents and fleeing home on the basis of a recommendation from the Social Office of OSPOD Prague 6. Despite the fact that the appeal court subsequently annulled the preliminary decision and did not confirm the charge of mental or physical abuse by the family, the girl without any legal basis remains with this foster mother, and allegedly with the support of the office, despite the wishes of her own family. In addition, the mother of the girl's partner, i.e. a person in conflict of interest, is to be a foster child, not an impartial person who ensures that the child's relationship with his own family is maintained or restored. And now for the questions: Do you think it is right for teenage children to decide for themselves where they will live, even though parental responsibility remains for parents until their age? This is, among other things, the case I mentioned. For the next one. In your opinion, is it right for authorities to recommend the custody of minors or to tolerate their stay with strangers only because of teenage disputes with their own parents? Does such a procedure have support in legislation? And the third question. On May 10, 2019, we adopted a resolution on the Committee on Social Policy asking the Ministry to withdraw the contested methodological manual that regulated the procedures for minors. This guide was subsequently withdrawn through the Ministry. So I'm going to ask if you can rule out the fact that in some of the OSPODs with this manual and the maps from this manual, which I think are completely pointless in many ways, some of the OSPOD doesn't happen to drive? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u160	Thank you. And I'll ask the secretary for an answer. I note that Mr králíček cancels his apology and is present at the plenary meeting. And Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologizes tonight between 6:00 p.m. and midnight for personal reasons. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, on your question, I admit that I have not received a more detailed specification of the question, and therefore I will only express myself on a general level, because it is precisely the details of the whole case that allow the whole situation to be assessed. Generally it can be said that the responsibilities of the institutions of social-legal protection of children as well as the accompanying organisations are anchored and regulated in the legislation on social-legal protection of children. This law sets out, among other things, why and how children are placed in foster care, how they are monitored, what is the frequency of visits and what is their objective. Of course, foster parents are checked before their children are given custody, but because they are mostly vulnerable children, they remain under supervision until their adulthood. As regards the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as the regions, OSPOD and associated organisations receive methodological guidance from us in the form of methodological recommendations and their activities by regional authorities are regularly controlled. At the same time, it should be added that the OSPOD at regional and municipal level is managed by the MPSV within the framework of the delegated scope. It is therefore not directly subordinate to the authorities. As for your inquiry into the methodological manual, which has been discussed repeatedly for the last two years on the Committee on Social Policy, so from my instructions at that time, after the first discussion, Deputy Minister Hanzlíková was instructed to revise the manual in cooperation with field experts, particularly social workers, OSPOD workers and also regional experts. This has happened, and at this point, the guide passes through a kind of opponent at round table level, and then will be presented to the Social Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u162	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u163	I just wanted to thank you, Madam Secretary, because I understand, and the subject of any interpellation is not to solve regional or local problems, because you cannot logically have sufficient information. My goal of this interpelation is to try to mediate this matter. Of course, I don't want to even mention which participants and which foster parents it will concern, so maybe we can say that here afterwards. But I was more likely to ask you if, if you get any specific information from me, if you could initiate a possible investigation into the relevant OSPOD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u164	Please, Madam Secretary, if you're interested. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u165	We will certainly preserve the protection of personal data. However, we can examine the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u166	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Dominik Feri with an interview with Minister Robert Plaga. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u167	Mr President, may I just ask if Mr Plaga has been excused?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u168	I can't say right now. He hasn't been on the list since this morning. But it is possible that he was excused additionally here in these -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u169	Okay, okay. Because it's very, very up-to-date. Thank you for the floor. So I'm withdrawing my intervention, and I'll contact the Minister in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u170	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Tomáš Martínek with an interview for Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u171	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you on the issue of unfair practices in the provision of the so-called reverse mortgages. This product mainly targets seniors who do not have enough savings but their own apartment or house. On the basis of the contract, they draw credit against housing pledges. Setting parameters depends on the type of contract, either they can receive the entire amount of the loan at the beginning or they can draw the loan using instalments, or there are combinations of both. The financial product may sound advantageous for pensioners who do not have sufficient funds, but carry great risks. Not only does this instrument carry certain risks to the heir. The reverse mortgage is based on the fact that the senior loan is not repaid during the drawdown period. The standard repayment of the loan will take place after the client's death, either by the proceeds from the sale of the property or by the repayment by the heirs. Furthermore, in some cases, what happens when the senior lives longer than the estimated time in the contract is not settled and does not want to sell his property. The main problem raised by the Czech National Bank is the variants of reverse mortgages, when the senior owner of the stopped property ceases to be. In the event of the company's bankruptcy, the senior would lose his money and property. The CNB considers the reverse mortgage product to be very risky because whoever sells the property with the promise of future payments can lose everything in the event of the bankruptcy of the back mortgage provider - both property and income. So I ask you, how does the Ministry of Finance deal with this issue and whether it intends to take measures that would protect seniors, often in a difficult financial situation, from a similar risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u172	Well, thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister for a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, I will be a little bit longer in the introduction because I think that most colleagues, with all due respect, may not know what we are going to talk about. Under the term reverse mortgage, a number of different and often very different structures may be hidden, but they have in common one thing: the typical client is a senior, who gives up ownership of the property, with the fact that he can continue to use it for housing, until death or by the end of the agreed period. In return, the counterparty receives some remuneration from the reverse mortgage provider. This may be a one-off monetary amount, a life or a time-limited rent, a relief in the instalments of a classic mortgage or other loan, a non-purpose loan with a repayment in the form of the future realisation of the provider's mortgage on a property or combination. It follows that the concept of reverse mortgage is not settled. It is just a concept of marketing that does not really have to express the substance of the product that you mentioned a moment ago, as perceived by the Consumer Credit Act or by the Civil Code. Thus, the legislation applies always according to a specific type of contractual relationship. Because, as I have already mentioned, it is not a homogeneous product, it is often not so much a financial service as a real estate service. What are the risks to consumers. If I didn't make it, I'd like to ask you a follow-up question. A major ethical problem of reverse mortgage is the very construction of this product, which contains both the element of speculation or also the so-called. bets on the death of the client because there is a direct consideration - the sooner the client dies, the more the reverse mortgage provider earns. Of course, the risk to clients, as mentioned in the interpellation, can be the life expectancy associated with the termination of the obligation of the reverse mortgage provider to pay the rent to the client. In such a situation, the client loses a significant part of his regular income, which occurs at a later senior age, when the senior needs more money, because he can get into a difficult life situation associated with illness, loss of a partner, etc. Another risk to the client may be the considerable economic disadvantage of the exchange, in quotation marks, property for a one-off amount or a time-limited rent. For example, the sum of the agreed liabilities of the reverse mortgage provider can be only one third of the market price of the property. Last but not least, the risk arising from the bankruptcy of the reverse mortgage provider must also be considered here: the consumer may no longer be the owner of the property and at the same time lose the agreed income. And now I apologize for the long introduction - I considered it necessary - and I will try to answer the questions asked. As I said before, therefore, the reverse mortgage may not always be a financial service, a product in the sense of consumer housing credit, that is the relationship between the creditor and the debtor, which the Ministry of Finance has in its legislative capacity. It must be noted that the role of the Ministry of Finance in the financial market is limited only to the area of regulation, i.e. to the presentation of bills. If, in the present case, the product fulfils the features of consumer credit, it is, of course, governed by the Consumer Credit Act, which was enforced in the previous parliamentary term when Andrej Babiš was the Minister of Finance, and his relatively strict consumer protection provisions. I will mention in particular the limitation of penalties for late payment, the prohibition of unfair commercial practices and unfair commercial conditions, the obligation to deal with professional care, the fulfilment of a number of information obligations, etc. The fulfilment of these obligations is then assessed by the Czech National Bank as a competent supervisory authority. If it is not a regulated financial service, it is problematic to determine who is supervising in a particular case without knowledge of a specific contract. It could be the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, it could be the Trade Authority. And there are competent courts to settle a private dispute. In the case of regulated financial services, then financial arbitrary, which is independent, but is included in the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance, like the Czech National Bank, warned about reverse mortgages and their risks in the past. On the other hand, it is not possible to flat-rate because it is possible to imagine situations where, in a particular case, such a product can help the consumer resolve its difficult financial situation. The General Council is the same as in any other situation when we buy or procure something. We always need to consider carefully what we get, what we pay for it. To consult an independent expert, not to act impulsively. And not to sign a contract with the slightest doubt. In support of the higher financial literacy of a citizen of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Finance has developed an updated national financial education strategy approved by the government on 13 January this year, and where we have the ambition after ten years, when the Ministry of Finance focused on education in the schools of young children, students, to focus on the most vulnerable groups of the population, seniors and socially weak. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u174	The Member will certainly ask an additional question and create room for confession.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u175	Thank you. I want to ask, in fact, whether it is not appropriate to regulate this legislatively, what is specifically a reverse mortgage, so that there are no doubts as to who is the regulator, what rules are to be made, etc. For example, such as travel agencies, so that it can then be defined that those companies, for example, must be insured against bankruptcy, which would address part of the problems that are currently occurring at the same time. So if the Ministry of Finance is not looking for any possibility of legislative regulation of a clear definition of the mortgage back and, where appropriate, its rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u177	It's very complicated, Mr. Ambassador. I will also provide you with the paperwork that my colleagues have prepared for me today. It is precisely because you must always rely on the actual content of the legal act. And at this point, saying reverse mortgage is this, and then it's going to need something else, it's hard. So we have prepared and enforced a revolutionary law on consumer credit at the Ministry of Finance in the last parliamentary term. Last summer, I called a meeting at the Ministry of Finance, where I invited the nonprofit sector and all those who were in trouble with these people, and I wanted to hear what experience they had after the year of this law, whether we should consider some adjustment, and they said no to me. They said the law is good. There was a press release, they did a press conference. There was a man in distress and all the bigger nonprofits and they said the law was good, there's a good foundation, we're working with it, don't open it again, just let him live. So if we get past this law, we can regulate these things. But like I said, the market is varied and, of course, they're able to find some other product, so I don't think it's quite the way. More importantly, it's the education that's really important to point out. That's why we're going to focus on seniors now, we want to work with the police, with the various social services in order to educate them. Because who will this person turn to first if something like this happens to him? He turns to a police officer, turns to a caretaker. So we want - because we are finding the vulnerability of these citizens - so we want to focus on this. It's that you write the definition, you define, we fail perfectly, and it's not quite the solution. It's in the enlightenment and point it out - look out, there are new bastards! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u178	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Jan Zahradník with an interview for Mr Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, according to the current concept, the government was to decide by 2018 to narrow the existing number of nine sites to candidates for the site for the establishment of a deep-water repository of radioactive waste. The locations were supposed to be narrowed from nine to four. It is January 2020, and the decision has not yet been made. Why didn't it fall? Secondly, I recall that according to § 108 para. The procedure for establishing the exploratory territory for the storage of radioactive waste in underground premises, the procedure for establishing a protected area, the procedure for authorising, operating a radioactive waste storage site and the procedure for ensuring respect for the interests of the municipalities to which the contribution from the nuclear account and their citizens belongs, in these processes, should be laid down by a special law. That's what the unchanged paragraph of the atomic law says. I have three questions. What about the process of building a deep storage of radioactive waste at the moment? Second, when will the selection of deep storage sites really be narrowed down? Finally, what is the case with the special law referred to in Section 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? Two atomic laws?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u180	Thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u181	Dear Member, thank you for asking. First of all, I'll take it the way you asked. The construction process. Of course, it's all in advance, but so far, the plan is that it should be in the current year by 30. 6, narrow down the selection of locations, or those specific locations, from the nine to the four. And in a minute, I'm gonna tell you why it hasn't happened yet, because it's been moving on in the past. For the next one. By 2025, the final location and the so-called alternate should be decided, which means there will be a 1+1 location. And so far, it is assumed that if it is followed in line with the vision so far, that is, with the traditional repository, and there will be no need for another solution over the next generation or generation on the table, which, of course, is still hard to predict today, it is a matter of a few more decades, so in 2050 it should start building the repository and in about 2065 it should be terminated. Sources are allocated to this in the so-called atomic account. Just so you know, there's about 30 billion crowns and, of course, they're growing there. It is also good to say for, say, the general public, one important thing that the repository is not only related to waste from nuclear power plants, but also related to waste from the ordinary industry, health care and so on. The ratio is about 25 percent of the non-nuclear sources and 75 percent of the nuclear power plants, in our case Dukovany, Temelín. As far as the preferred sites are concerned, they have not actually been decided at the moment, because there is still a very specific research of these sites, namely geophysical research. Data collection took place until the end of the third quarter of 2019. And to make a really serious decision, and I say we, it will be the so-called advisory body of the director of SURAO, in which representatives of the authorities of the state administration such as the Ministry of Industry, the environment, of course SURAO, State Institute for Radiation Protection, SÚJB, public universities, specifically Masaryk University in Brno, Czech University of Technology and representatives of the municipalities concerned, both their nominated expert from the Academy of Sciences and two mayors for each of the localities. I think that's fair. The advisory panel's already working, it's going, it's meeting. The criteria are clear. They are simply safety, technical and, of course, environmental impacts. And now these indicators are just going to weigh in a very sophisticated way, and they're going to sort out the locations in a certain range from relatively best to relatively worst location. This should be completed, as I said before, until the half of this year, by 30. 6. With the fact that the panel, as I have already said, will be held by the mayors of those municipalities if they were interested in taking part. It is also good to say that, with one exception - a total of 52 or 53 affected municipalities, nine locations - only the mayor of one municipality was dissatisfied. So we think it has a level. The expert level of the discussion is judged by the mayor in the overwhelming majority as constructive, as factual. At the same time, the mayors concerned are given enough room to express their concerns, demands. We understand, we understand, it's a very sensitive matter. We've been trying and trying to change the communication these past few months. Far more often we see them and we engage them in the preparation of the law, which to some extent also clearly sets out the parameters of what economic benefits will be for all those who will be on the list of the nine or, possibly, the four municipalities. There are also a number of other requirements. However, we did not, for example, accept in that law certain requirements of mayors regarding the so-called veto law. I think it's obvious here that we just can't accept that those mayors have the right to veto whether or not it's gonna be there, however much we understand that request to some extent. We have not yet accepted that the four locations should be decided only after the law is effective. The effectiveness of this law does not change the fact that there is an independent geophysical survey, in itself, how much money it will cost or will not be money, does not affect whether the territory is optimal and suitable or inappropriate. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm just done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u182	Thank you. Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? I see you do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u183	Thank you. I, Minister, of course do not question and, on the contrary, support, if we are to have a fundamental share in our energy mix of nuclear energy, we need to talk about waste disposal here. That's one. Secondly, I am quite pleased that you have also mentioned a different option for the storage of waste from nuclear energy than for the permanent deep storage. That could be a problem. For 100,000 years, it's hard to guarantee the safety of the deposit. And I would add that there are municipalities that have a problem with that. It is a great uncertainty that rests on them. It would be a good idea for the decision to be made as soon as possible, the municipalities were chosen, the real candidates, so that the others would not be burdened by the uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u184	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u185	Thank you. I agree with you. I'm very careful, careful, he said there must be other variants of the repository, because it would probably be irresponsible for us to say here today that there could be a new solution in 20, 30 years. But the fact is, who follows, for example, what happens in Řež, in the research institute, that there are just researches today that are also devoted to the fact that it could actually be dealt with in a different way. [[17.40 hours]] However, it has to be objectively seen that the world is largely built on the core, currently 450 nuclear reactors, 50 others are built, 11 European countries have clearly stood up for nuclear power. Finally, only France has 58 nuclear reactors. And the Czech Republic plays an important role in the core. We have clearly declared and will not give way, nor can we, thanks to self-sufficiency and some economic regime, withdraw from the core, which means deep storage is really something that we have to deal with. There's a whole series of ways to deal with it. It's white. In Finland, they solved this with a truly excellent repository, which is really a huge laboratory, very well done. This is interesting, in the finals, two final municipalities competed for whether or not they would be chosen, because the economic benefits, as well as the environmental benefits involved, clearly exceeded the concerns. It's about communication, it's about explaining, it's about education, it's about decency, and it's about having to set up some kind of regime of trust here, not dictation, and that's what we're trying to do, however we understand it might be a sensitive subject for somebody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u186	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Lukáš Černohorský with an interview for Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u187	Thank you for the floor. Two billion buildings are to be built in Ostrava in the coming years, namely Black Cube and concert hall, and one several hundred million, White Shadow. In these cases, the State's core contribution is envisaged. In the past, you should have said that the co-financing of the state in the regions and cities would be a maximum of 10 per cent, which applies to several projects with a majority financial share of the state in the region. So is the previous agreement that these buildings will be co-financed under the agreement or will this 10% limit apply to them? These are therefore the following constructions: Black cube, estimated costs about 1.35 billion. Kč without VAT, the state should deliver 800 miles. CZK, the Moravian-Silesian Region 400 miles. CZK and the city of Ostrava 150 miles. Kč. The concert hall, there were estimated costs of about 1.5 billion. Kč without VAT, the state should deliver 600 miles. CZK, Moravian-Silesian Region about 300 miles. CZK and the city of Ostrava 600 miles. Kč. White shadow, there are estimated costs of about 600 miles. CZK without VAT, the state should provide 300 million. CZK, Moravian-Silesian Region 150 miles. CZK and the city of Ostrava 150 miles. Kč. Therefore, should the information be valid that the State would only provide 10 per cent, it participated in 10 per cent co-financing, whether the Moravian-Silesian Region or the city of Ostrava and, where appropriate, when the information took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u188	Thank you. I'll ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u189	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, I, first of all, did not know exactly where you were going to target with your intervention. So first let me say - because your interpellation was the financial contribution of the state to selected investment events in the national investment plan, I have generally prepared an answer which is a little bit past the effect that essentially a national investment plan was created mainly because very often the problem is curiously not financing, but the unpreparedness of the actions. This means that we basically have - and now I'm talking in general - across the resorts, I'm not talking about the Ministry of Culture, this is the Ministry of Culture, I'm getting there in a minute, so of course there's always some way to deal with funding over a few years. There's a project documentation first. Financing - it cannot be said that funding will only be a matter of the state budget. I mean for the future. We also need to involve loans, for example, we have the opportunity to discuss EIB loans, of course we have to monitor that interest rates are advantageous, they are not less advantageous than when we borrow on financial markets, we have the possibility of PPP projects, which is something we can't do properly. Of course, it takes a proper legal contract, bulletproof, so that the state doesn't get away with it in the future, but it's something - we only have one freeway that we've been doing for years as a PPP project, and I don't think that's the way that in the world - we're taking part in different conferences - gets green and involvement and private money is the way. But, of course, we have to reflect fiscal rules, etc. You ask specific questions. Of course, I don't know what 10% we're talking about. I've never dealt with anything like this or commented on it. I would really have to get a specific one - and I certainly did not comment on the financing of buildings in Ostrava. It's the Ministry of Culture at the moment, because the Ministry of Finance doesn't finance specific buildings. The Ministry of Finance provides grant programs. Individual events are listed in accordance with the Ministry and they prepare a new investment programme for co-financing of cultural infrastructure projects, so the programme will be named, which will allow the construction of new cultural facilities for the provision of public cultural services, concert halls, theatres, libraries, exhibition halls, museums, galleries throughout the country in accordance with contemporary world trends and standards, so actions are to be included in the programme on the basis of requirements collected from the Association of Regions and the programme is planned for nine years. At this point, it's all I can give you as information, or, if you ask me in writing, I'll answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u190	The Member is still interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u191	I just wanted to say thank you to the Minister. I will certainly ask in writing because the information fell from the mouth of one opposition representative. He specifically mentioned that Minister Schillerová said that the state's co-financing in regions and cities would be a maximum of 10 per cent, including us, etc. So it would be quite important for our country to find out where we stand. If I send you a written interview, or meet you here, I suppose, unlike the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u193	Well, I'm a regular. I think I have a very good attendance, so I'm sure I'll be there. I'd only have to be abroad for example at Ecofin, or I'd have to get sick, but I knock, I haven't been sick in a long time, so I hope it doesn't happen to me. I think the information is confused. I think these are rumors that we will have to prepare a new form of co-financing in line with the multiannual financial framework. That's what we're working on. Of course, we need to finally know the total budget, the total amount we're going to get in this negotiation, and then we're going to set it up. That the state would pay 10 percent for some kind of action like this, that's just nonsense. I absolutely rule that out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u194	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today between 18 and 23 o'clock for work reasons. Next in line is Mr Marek Výborný with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u195	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, have a nice evening. I would like to ask you to explain on the basis of what considerations your government, by which your ministry, I mean the Ministry of Industry and Trade, decided to come up with the idea of unifying the logo of all ministries, which should allegedly obtain the same look, in the form of a small state emblem. Why do you propose this unification and use of just a small state emblem? Would it not be more appropriate to use unification in this case, if you consider it really necessary, a large state emblem, where the earth symbols of all parts of our country, i.e. Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia are depicted? I believe that the ministries are so important institutions that even symbolically should represent the entire society and all the territorial units of the state and its inhabitants. Thank you very much for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u196	Thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u197	Dear Member, thank you so much for asking. I'll first get to the way it came into existence. We came up with a technological brand recently, the Czech Republic, a country for the future, which, to some extent, followed up on a new innovation strategy and a vision in the field of research, development and new technologies. The brand got very good, started to spread in a natural way, started to be used by institutions of both professional and less professional, schools, Academy of Sciences, started to use it by companies and we were under certain, in a good way, pressured to follow up on this brand. Think about how the Czech Republic and individual institutions are presented. Here, when we look into detail into the individual resorts, we really find that what the Ministry, the other character, and if we look at how it works in Germany, how it works in other countries, the symbolism and the so-called identity is very good, unifying, has, say, a certain professional trait, and when I say it a little bit with exaggeration, not the way that anyone has ever come and married their graphics and made their resort, which I don't blame anyone in the past, it just kind of happened in some way. We came to the conclusion of the government that it really wanted to unite. [[17.50 hours]] What is important to say is that we, by this new identity and, let us say, by unifying ministries and ministries, do not want to replace, of course, a large state character or suppress its importance, only by modeling other countries, we want to unite communication at ministerial level, with the fact that at the moment we are analysing all the contexts and legal nature. Our aim is simply to unite communication with the legal use of the symbol at the level of all departments of state administration and all other bodies, and to some extent we simply want to act more professionally, whether in Slovakia or in Germany, where the symbolism is actually followed very consistently. We're not counting on doing any large-scale contracts. We are counting on the fact that we really want a concept based on laws, national colors, current symbols in cooperation with professionals. Professionals have to do it. And we see an opportunity here to really unite the fundamental fragmentation. When you take the business cards of several of our resorts, twelve, fourteen, fifteen, everyone really has it completely different. So it offers itself as a good opportunity exactly 100 years after the adoption of our symbolism, tricolors, state characters, we could adopt a law that would determine these symbols. With some humility, we also want to ask for some support and cooperation. This is not a political issue. In this case, it's a social issue. And we will be happy to communicate with the people, institutions and, of course, with individual political parties. We think that the Czech institutions deserve a certain degree of unification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u198	Thank you. The MP is not interested. We'll proceed to another interpellation, probably the last. Mr Karel Rais will intersect Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u199	Good evening. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue my series of questions about the creation and operation of information systems for the payment of social benefits. For several years, the payment of social benefits from a well-known IT company is continuously provided and the company is called OKsystem. The municipalities with OKsystem will end on 31st. 12th of this year. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is constantly making sure of us by your mouth that from 1. 1. 2021 will not be threatened by the payment of benefits in the Czech Republic. Therefore, allow me to ask a few questions. From personal experience, I know how much of a problem it is popularly said to launch documentation on the information system that programmers have been creating for several years. And they are not willing to do so, which is understandable, because they are interested in maintaining a monopoly over other modifications to the public system. Given the strategic importance of the information system, I would like to ask: Does your Ministry have complete documentation for OKsystem systems and applications ordered by the Ministry at the end of 2017, and this documentation should have been delivered in mid-2018? First of all, I want to know if you have the source codes. If you have source codes at your disposal, what prevents you from entering a tender? At least these two questions. I'd like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u200	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. I'll read an apology. Minister Karel Havlíček apologizes today from 18:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u201	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the honourable Member for this interpellation. There is probably no news that the IT problem at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been very problematic since at least the time of Minister Drábek. In 2012, even non-insurable social benefits were paid by hand because the whole system did not work. Your query is probably directed to the IS DAV II information system, which means one of the twenty subsystems that is supposed to work next year. In 2015, the whole IT system was changed. Since 2015, we have competed and operated out of the total twenty subsystems, or have prepared the operation of 19 of them. The last, biggest information system we're dealing with right now. It is important to say that this very difficult situation, which is also given by a complex system of public procurement in the Czech Republic, is being addressed. I've fulfilled what I promised since I took office. Just last year, exactly in line with the timetable and the budget, we put four large systems into operation. This year we will have a whole range of new systems. However, as regards the IS DAV II information system, or at all the benefits information system, as I have said several times, there are three solutions relevant. The first is a settlement negotiation within the framework of the IS DAV I project. Here I can say that there have been several negotiations to a possible reconciliation and the output is a consensus that IS DAV I is possible, not an optimal path. The second option which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can go is the public contract IS DAV II. We've already discussed this last time, a week ago. The competition authority annulled DXC Technology's exclusion on 12 December and the decision was final since 27 December last year. The evaluation committee was convened for this public contract on 8 January this year, when it launched a re-assessment of the DXC offer from the point of view of the existence of an exceptionally low tender price, taking into account the antibacterial authority of the alleged shortcomings in the justification for the exclusion of the tenderer. The third path is an open tender to ensure operation and development of current valid OK applications. As I also mentioned last week, the preparation of an open tender for the operation and development of existing OK applications was launched. We have a legal office to prepare the procurement documents. After discussing the options of the selection procedure, it was decided at the level of the stress control work committee on the use of the standard open selection procedure. Other methods do not offer more significant time savings or other benefits. In the event of significant market objections, it will be possible to cancel and re-write the contract. As far as your query for qualification documentation is concerned, operational, administrator, security and user documentation has been completed and approved, and at this time the system documentation is being processed, which is expected to be completed at the end of February of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u202	Thank you, Minister. Are you interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u203	If I understood it correctly, they're basically going to hand over the documentation now because I still consider it a key issue, and it doesn't matter if it's the Ministry or the company to have the documentation available. I think this is also a key issue for negotiations and further negotiations with you. So I understand that you will have the source documentation available from the information system in March or late February?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u204	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u205	I can do it again, Mr. Ambassador. Basically, at this point, the qualification documentation, the operating, administration, security and user documentation - it has been completed and approved. And at this point, the system documentation is being processed. And we assume that at the end or during the month of February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u206	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mr Marek Výborný from 18:00 to the end of the day for family reasons. So, at this point, we're shutting down the intercession and moving on to the adjournment of the final report of the committee of inquiry to the OKD, House document 3516. We'll take turns, so thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-003-292.u207	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, so we will continue with the interrupted item number.
