ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on compensation for persons providing paid health services taking into account the impacts of the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020 /German press 868/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please, Minister, take the floor. With the replacement card number 21, Minister Zaorálek votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a draft law laying down a legal framework for compensation for the costs incurred by health service providers in the context of the ongoing epidemic of COVID-19 disease. The proposal imposes an obligation on health insurance undertakings to compensate for these costs and empowers the Ministry of Health to issue a decree setting out how to calculate these compensations in case the relevant health and social service providers do not agree with health insurance companies themselves. As the current situation could not be foreseen at the time of the creation and adoption of the payment decree for this year, its unreserved application for the payment account of 2020 would cause significant economic problems for a significant part of health service providers and social services providers providing health services, due to the reduction of the amount of care provided and, on the other hand, increased expenditure in relation to the care of patients with COVID-19 disease. In order to ensure the necessary availability of paid health services for insured persons in the following years, it is necessary to address the situation at systemic level and to formulate rules for appropriate compensation for providers. At this point, it is important to stress that the compensation law itself does not contain any formulas for calculating compensation, but, as I have already mentioned, it provides for authorisation for the Ministry of Health to issue an appropriate compensation decree. It is the same way as in the case of standard editions called. payment orders on the basis of authorisation in the Public Health Insurance Act. This decree contains and will contain formulas that will largely resemble the very standard payment decree, as everyone who works in the health sector knows it well. [[9.20 hours]] The decline in the production of health care provided will vary according to the models carried out in each segment of health care. For some segments, there is zero production in the strictest measures against the spread of the epidemic, such as spa rehabilitation care. The acute bed care segment is around 30 to 50 per cent of production compared to the same period last year, while the domestic palliative care segment shows an increase in production compared to last year. The purpose of the proposed regulation is therefore to take into account the failure of the production of health services due partly to the decline in demand, partly by government measures and partly by the providers themselves for the protection of personnel, and also to take into account the higher costs of health service providers that these providers had to incur as a result of the epidemics of COVID-19. This will be achieved by reducing the annual production targets necessary for receiving the full amount of remuneration planned for providers for 2020 and by increasing the remuneration for individual health services. It is also necessary to motivate the provider to renew the provision of care and to ensure the availability of health services, which will be done by adjusting the payment mechanisms towards strengthening the incentive performance component of remuneration. The solution for specific segments will be designed to take account of its specific characteristics, i.e. the expected decline in production, existing payment mechanisms and optimal motivation for the provision of health services for the remainder of 2020. In addition, especially in hospitals, the cost of caring for patients with COVID-19 disease should be compensated, resulting in a public health insurance system expected to increase expenditure by around 5 billion compared to planned expenditures for 2020. Crowns. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely necessary to adopt the draft law as soon as possible, in particular because it is essential, in the case of changes to the annual level of reimbursement, that providers can begin to adapt to and plan the production of health services for the remainder of 2020. Based on current estimates, it can be expected that the unfulfilled production of health service providers will be around 30,5 billion for the whole year. Crowns. For example, hospitals would lose 22 billion without changing payment mechanisms. CZK, because their capacity for patients with COVID-19 disease was significantly reduced by elective care, but the costs of staff wages and other fixed operating costs were virtually not reduced. However, in the case of a segment of health service providers for which no annual health service accounts are normally made, since they do not have advance payments, the situation is already problematic in 2020. These are mainly providers of health transport services and providers of spa rehabilitation care. These segments are already faced with serious economic problems at the moment, and it is therefore expected that the providers concerned will be paid advances for compensation already during this year. It is therefore necessary to ensure payment of these advances as soon as possible, otherwise there is a serious economic impact on the health sector. Without the speedy adoption of this law, these segments would have lost roughly 2.6 billion. CZK and would threaten to end the activities of many providers, which would significantly negatively affect the availability of care for patients in the coming months. This would, of course, also make it very difficult to provide care in other segments. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please let us actually approve this proposal as it is put forward and we have been able to stabilise the Czech health services, and we have brought clear predictions and clear certainty to the various segments of what they can count on with regard to public health insurance payments this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u3	Thank you. The Committee on Health, to which the bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as Parliamentary Press 868/1. I would ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to recap very quickly because I know you all know what's going on. We discussed this point last week, and because it is a law that actually allows it not to continue to follow the approved health insurance plans of insurance companies, so health care could be reimbursed by the healthcare facility at the time of the pandemic, which, of course, limited it, so there was a debate here, when it was then unanimously adopted, that before that the health committee would be informed of the draft payment decree for this new period. This really happened, the health committee met at an emergency meeting on Wednesday of this week, where the debate again took place. We were informed of the draft work of the decree because this decree continues to be discussed with all health care providers. It's not in its final form yet. At the site, representatives of both the medical and pharmaceutical public took part. The latest information from the 11 o'clock of yesterday when I received a text message from President Krebs, which is for those who are not familiar with it, the president of the pharmacy chamber, where he tells me that they are in a meeting with the Minister and have agreed on some new funds in the payment decree, which would suit them, and in that case he would only beg us to take care of the smallest drugstores. The problem that was then addressed was the definition of the smallest pharmacy. In agreement with the former vice president of the pharmacy chamber, ten jobs are not enough and will be continued as far as I know. As far as the resolution adopted by the Health Committee is concerned, I will read it to you again, and I will read the new one to you at what stage. The resolution on the bill - I repeat again: I. The Committee on Health proposes: The Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill. II. It proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill. III. It proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on the bill no later than - then - 26 May by 19 o'clock. - This is now passé, because of course we have complied with the requirements of the House. IV. The Ministry of Health is asking for a final version of the compensation decree for 2020 within two weeks - which is what happened in the work version by Wednesday of this week. V. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on compensation for persons providing paid health services taking into account the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic, House Press 868. VI. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Věra Adámková, to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies. VII. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Věra Adámková, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office. On Wednesday, when an emergency committee meeting was held and the following decree was tabled there, the Health Committee adopted this resolution on the compensatory decree: After the opening word of the Minister of Health, Mr Mgr Vojtěch and the Committee on Health of the Chamber of Deputies I. takes note of the draft decree on how compensation is to be included in the amount of remuneration for the services paid in 2020; II. recommends to the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic a discussion with representatives of all health care providers before the adoption of the final version of the decree on how compensation is included in the amount of reimbursement; III. asks the Ministry of Health to submit a final version of the Decree establishing how compensation is to be included in the amount of remuneration for the services paid in 2020 to the Health Committee by Monday 22 June this year. The Health Committee also adopted several accompanying resolutions. Firstly, the resolution on the compensatory decree: The Committee on Health asks the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic for an urgent start of discussion with all health insurance companies on participation in the increase of the fund's budget for support for small and unique pharmacies, which worked during the COVID-19 pandemic. [[9.30 hours]] Another resolution adopted: the Committee on Health of the Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Health to further discuss the segment of spa rehabilitation care to increase payments to this segment beyond the current draft compensatory decree. The amendments to the Committee's deliberations have not been read. As for, please, more procedures, I mean after...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u5	Thank you. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate, as is the custom in this part of the accelerated negotiations. I've called our colleagues, I'll call them again. I repeat, we will decide whether we will lead the general debate on this point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 171. Registered is 161, for 70, against 50. This proposal was not adopted. So a situation we haven't had before. I therefore open a detailed debate on this point. I'm asking who wants to get out. President Bartošek has priority rights, otherwise Mr Kaňkovský is entered into a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u6	Thank you. Just a quick note. You overruled us. But I do not understand why you did not allow a general debate on this point? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u7	Mr. Kupka. If he's applying, I can't give him the floor yet - does he have priority? [[Mr Kupka and outside the microphone speak to the President.]] To the vote. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u8	I'm sorry, but my voting device didn't work. I couldn't squeeze anything. I mean, it was possible to squeeze, but it didn't show up. So I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u9	Is the glitch going on, or is he okay? There. I will sign you all off and vote on Mr Kupka's objection to the vote because his voting device did not work, he could not participate. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of complying with the objection? Who's against it? Voting number 172. 152 Members are registered, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now repeat the vote, the content of which is the approval or non-approval of the general debate. We are voting on whether we are having a general debate. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 173. 153 Members are registered, for 79, against 19. The motion was accepted. So, according to the voting procedure, I am opening a general debate. I'm asking if there will be a motion to limit speaking time. I see a Mr. Kubíček who always walks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for your kind duty. I propose limiting the debate in both the general and the detailed debate for Members to five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u11	Thank you. We will immediately vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of limiting speaking time? One five minutes in the general debate, one five minutes in the detailed debate. Voting number 174. 156 Members are registered, for 92, against 53. The motion was accepted. Until the general debate is at this moment... I'm opening the debate. Mr Kaňkovský is the first Member to be enrolled in this debate. At least he checked in with me in the previous part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u12	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Press Club 868. We discussed the topic of financing health services after the COVID-19 epidemic. We discussed this here during the month of March and April, when we called on the government to prepare for the impact on health care funding. Specifically, I called on the government to prepare the proposal to increase the payments for state insured persons by CZK 500 as a first step. It sounded like it was here twice. And I am glad that the government finally took that step, that it did so in two steps, when in the first stage it increased by 500 CZK for the rest of 2020 and subsequently from 200 CZK from 1. 1. 2021. I'm sure the government owes thanks for that. I consider this to be an important stabilization element for the financing of health care in the upcoming not-so-light period. But if we have somehow managed to find funds that will be missing in the public health insurance because, as we see today, the insurance withdrawals are stagnating, then we need to take the second important step, and that is how we can direct the funds to health care providers. That should be what the Ministry of Health's mandate should be for it to create the so-called compensation payment decree. I am glad that last week we took that step that caused a certain storm, but which gave us members of the Health Committee the opportunity to get to know at least the first version of the so-called compensation decree, because it is not so little. It is indeed a very important document that is becoming more important than ever. And it's something completely different than when we only had a general thesis in the 868 press attachment. I can say that, as we have so far had the opportunity to evaluate the first version of the payment decree, and it is a very comprehensive document with a lot of very sophisticated formulas, so I can say at least as our experts, that we consider it a very well-solved acute bed care and funding in a number of other expertise. But there are some segments of care that, in our opinion and according to the analysis of economists from the individual segments, are not quite well solved, and I will mention three of them. The first, which I believe is not quite properly addressed, is the aftercare segment, including palliative and hospice care. There the Ministry of Health assumes that there will be no restriction on care. And the data actually shows that there was no significant drop in the amount of care. But we still need to look at it through the optics of the increased costs. Care for polymorbid patients on subsequent beds and patients with incurable diseases is generally very difficult. They were also one of the most vulnerable people in the chain of people who actually have the greatest risk of being infected with COVID-19. So these devices had a very high cost not only for disinfectants, protective equipment, but also for personnel costs. So the prediction that the Department of Health made in the follow-up segment doesn't, in my opinion, match. And here I would like to call on the Minister to enter into negotiations with this segment in the following period. And we actually called on the Health Committee to do so by a resolution, and there is also a promise that individual segments will still be dealt with. [[9.40 hours]] The second segment, which, in my opinion, is not yet happily solved, is the segment of outpatient specialists. The Ministry of Health here has realized that it will raise the price of a point by less than 4 percent and will receive some small amount to secure the necessary protective equipment. And that wasn't just at the time of that first wave of covid epidemic, but of course it will be for the rest of this year. According to calculations made by outpatient specialists, although the segment of outpatient specialists is very diverse, the proposed compensation is insufficient. Here, if I have information, there's already a promise from settlement. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Okay, well, I'm still going to sign up in a detailed debate on the amendment, and I'm going to introduce it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u13	Yes, thank you. Mr Válek is entered into a general debate. Here he comes. I'll read the apologies for now. Mr Mihola apologizes for all of today's working day, Mr Běhounek apologizes from 11.45 to 13:00 for reasons of work, Minister Marie Benešová apologizes for all of today's working day, Mr Ondřej Veselý apologises from 11.50 to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Tomáš Hanzel apologizes for all of the working day. And she apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the meeting day of Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr President. My confidence that a person here should behave in principle, correct and for the benefit of the citizens was very hungry yesterday. I figured I'd have to use what bothers me, a rough bag of rough patch, after some speeches, and unfortunately, the President's management. Today in the first vote, when I didn't quite understand why we didn't want a general debate, my belief in the fact that decency and trying to behave at least a little correctly was almost killed. Anyway, I finally figured I wouldn't let myself be manipulated into acting differently than I'm used to, and I've been trying to behave here for three years. Therefore, even in the case of the law, although I have deep reservations about the payment decree, because I still believe that the Ministry of Health is the Ministry of Health, who wants health to work and that patients receive quality care, convinced the club that we should vote in favour of the enormous concerns that the final text of the payment decree will not be good enough. And I'll try to stress some of my concerns. Through the President, Minister, I have done something I rarely do. I believe you very much now and will be unhappy and very, very disappointed if trust is not fulfilled. But I've really put too much pressure on you right now to believe that you really want the health service to work. Because when the law is passed and the payment decree runs and there's gonna be a debate over it, there's nothing we can do about it. And I'm going to try to say very briefly on a few points what my problem is. The first problem is that there are wage compensations, but nowhere, like those mythical 120,000 for paramedics, isn't stated if it's including contributions, including contributions from employers, and how do they get money when it raises, let's say, the salary they get during vacation. We, in some way, in a sphere where there are employment relationships, know that 120,000 and 120,000 are not the same thing. 'Cause out of 120,000, it could be like 50 on the payroll. The same applies to the wages that are here. What I said on the health committee fell out of some segments. I didn't really find it anywhere in the payment order, and I'm saying it on a microphone that works at the MRI, what the CT workplace, and I'm naming these two as a private radiologist, which is paid for in performance and which month, two months really didn't work, how they get, if they can even count on having those two months in some way compensated. You can't do that in advance, you can't do that in flat-rate payments, it must somehow appear in a payment decree. I will not go into deep balance sheets as to whether the production limit reduced to 81 per cent, which had to be reduced in the faculty hospital, is 81 per cent when the limit on entitlement is met with a full flat rate of almost 12 per cent in addition compared to the reference period 2018, is what can be compensated as defined in the Decree. But I'll mention the specifics again. It is extremely difficult to define with one sum how the compensated extra costs associated with tents were to be moped up. If I marry Brno University Hospital, the average cost was around 400,000 a month. I don't know what happened in other hospitals, but this time more than ever, individual differences between healthcare establishments - providers - need to be taken into account. I am fully aware that the design of the payment order is not built in this way, and I am aware that it is a difficult work that the Ministry must coordinate, the difficult work of discussion between providers on the one hand and insurance companies on the other, but I am aware that there is no other option. Therefore, I would like to conclude by asking and asking, Minister, I really voted in favour of this law and I will vote in favour of it because I hope that you are concerned with health care and Czech patients and that the payment decree will take into account all the requirements that can be taken into account this time and the individual difference will also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u15	Thank you. There is a factual point - Mr Běhounek. Let me just remind you that the gentlemen's agreement is valid, that we will not speak with factual remarks when it comes to abridged negotiations. I, of course, must let you go, Mr. Ambassador, but please, I appeal to everyone: this is not the way we agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a very short line I had on the Health Committee. I ask you nicely, the subject of today's meeting is press 868, which means the possibility of the payment decree being issued. The remuneration decree is not the subject of negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u17	Thank you. I ask Mr Třešňák to join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I will now find it difficult to follow up on Mr Běhounek, because although this is a law that allows the decree to be issued, I am counting on the debate to be largely above the decree and its mechanisms. And here I have to repeat what President Adámková has done. We received the decree, I believe, on Tuesday night and Wednesday noon the committee had already discussed it, or perhaps everyone was trying to find what was missing in it or what they would possibly modify in it. And, of course, the Chamber of Deputies has no direct effect on how the Ministry issues the decree or in what form, but the debate can be held. And the resolutions that have been passed actually encourage the Ministry to conduct further negotiations, for example, on increasing some payments. In his speech, my colleague KaňkovskKaňkovský did not get to the issue of pharmacies and will talk about them probably, Mrs Richterová, but I am glad that the committee adopted a resolution that gives the Ministry the task of dealing with health insurance companies to increase the fund for small pharmacies, and I am also glad, as the Minister mentioned, for example, an increase of 15 percent for spa rehabilitation care. And here, too, the resolution has been passed to further increase, because the fall in the spa because of the closure of the state borders is truly enormous. What did not pass by the committee, and what I would call for the Ministry to continue to discuss, were covid respectable patients. Since most hospitals actually have enormous costs when they accept patients who are considered, and the next day or two days, they find that they have negative tests, but the extra costs with medical devices are really negligible and there is no way to report this to the insurance undertaking. That's why I won't be talking long because of Mr. Běhounek's appeal, and I'll pass the word on to the next one. So only briefly in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u19	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Aulická for a debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I must say, therefore, that although this is really an opportunity for it to be issued, we are discussing a point in order for an updated payment decree to be issued, I must say that it is actually necessary to mention the prepared payment decree itself, or compensation, as you want it to be, but it is, in fact, just the update of the payment decree for the situation that is in the Czech Republic. I have to say, we probably had a lot of things to talk about on the Health Committee, where the Department of Health sent us our questions. I have to assess that there are many things that I am not entirely identified with what the Ministry of Health has actually answered. And I don't think anybody here wants to say that he wouldn't be in favour of this law. That's probably one of the main things. We're all aware of the situation and that we need to pour more money into health care. That's one simple fact. And I think we agree across the political spectrum here. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The question is, as my colleagues have said here, in what areas the satisfaction is and where the satisfaction is not. I have to say that in hospice care, for example, he said it here already a colleague of Vítek Kaňkovský, I simply cannot agree with the answer of the Ministry of Health, because we really perceive the decline in clientele and the decline in income. And we know that long-term hospice care and palliative in general is underfunded. And there is really a lack of large finances from both the Ministry of Health and above all from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the form of funding for social services. And the answer that the increase there sees that on the contrary, it has grown, so I have other experiences. And in Most, maybe we have a big slump because of that... [[The speaker was silent for the noise in the hall.]] Okay, you don't like hospice care. God forbid she ever met you. So I would really like to say that we perceive that, on the contrary, it was precisely because clients were declining because they had to be tested, whether they were positive or negative for coronavirus, so unfortunately, the testing often took a very long time and, in the meantime, it happened very often that unfortunately, before they got into the care of hospices, clients died. And that's one fact. And the hospices really miss that money. Another problem, of course, was in field care, and I think it might be for the next thing. But what disappoints me very much is that I have to say the funding of nurses in social services. I think, and as much as we can talk about it here, whether it's a topic or not, we know for a long time that this area of health nurses in social services is very underfunded and more or less it's always being funded by the regions. What we're talking about right now is that we've got revenue cuts both in the regions and in the municipalities. At the county level, I think it's 12 percent of the budget. And we all know, and regional representatives here we have that they are already taking all the measures to reduce budgets, to look for different budget measures, to cut back this year, precisely because there are compensatory bonuses that they are just actually cutting off from their finances that they were expecting and were supposed to get to them. And I have to say, I'm very sorry if we're talking about the roughly 40 billion that the Department of Health is actually going to reload on health care with this bill, and it calculated that those costs should be about half a billion for those nurses. But we're gonna leave that on the edge again? Are we gonna let the authorities that are really in big trouble today? I think the Department of Health should really face this issue, and the funds, at least some significant part, just find them, because here we are opening up a big hole again, which we're going to be looking for here, and maybe we're going to be doing some extraordinary meetings to get it financed. So for us, of course, we are in favour of declaring this law. Nobody's gonna have a problem with that. On the other hand, I think the Ministry of Health just didn't treat all segments fairly. And we'll see it in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u21	Thank you, Madame. Next, Mrs Richterová is enrolled in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is, I think, good to see that this debate is useful, that there are factual arguments in it and that it was really very surprising to limit the initial decision. As far as the matter is concerned, this is a debate over compensation, over compensation, not remuneration. Of course, remuneration is determined by the Ministry in its dealings with providers. But what we're discussing today is compensation for an extraordinary decrease in revenue, for an extraordinary reduction in traffic, for an emergency intervention. I would like to draw attention to one part of health care that we have already discussed on the committee, and I will add to that a personal experience that I am from a small town, almost a village, but there is still a pharmacy. And the pharmacy only makes a living there, just above the water, because there's also a health center and people go to the doctor from the surrounding villages. And it's just like that. It's not a string. It's a so-called little one-of-a-kind pharmacy. On the one hand, there is a fund to support unique pharmacies, because it is much more pleasant for people who live in these places when there is a pharmacy at the doctor's place and they do not have to go to a larger city. On the other hand, the fund, it seems, is not going to be enough at the moment. And I am here with the support of a specific proposal that Mr Kaňkovský has uploaded into the system. And because he recorded it, we didn't need to prepare our own, and that's that, as with other companies, when they're failing because of the corona measures, so that even these small pharmacies with a reduction in the number of employees would be able to forgive insurance premiums, to forgive contributions for those three months. And I'll give you a reason why. Because you can really say to yourself: but people went to pharmacies. But it's just that it doesn't seem like it, but there was a lot of restrictions and common health care, a lot of surgeries were closed. And it's these little pharmacies in the remote places that are just about to be kept, it's nothing extra profitable in these places, it's a huge revenue drop. That is why I am here to explain that in order to ensure health care, especially in the regions, we consider it very appropriate to support those small non-string pharmacies, thus contributing to the maintenance of the entire health care complex from the physician to the pediatrician to the pharmacy, as well as in smaller cities and regions. The proposal for remission may have two limits - a limit for pharmacies up to 50 or up to 25 employees. And I'll explain again. It's just that somewhere in history, it's kind of a tribal pharmacy, like in a town, and then it's got dispensaries, and then it's got some branches. And since it's a pretty regulated industry, it's gotta have lab labs in addition to pharmaceuticals, ambulances, there's different prescribed positions, even for small jobs, but there's a lot of those positions, so at least we need to keep the number of 25 employees. It is simply a specific area, but from the point of view of health care and from a rural point of view it is very important for me. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am addressing you with the support of this proposal, which will be read in a detailed debate, and I hope that it will pass in some form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Svoboda is the last Member to be enrolled in the debate at the moment. He apologizes today between 9.45 and 14.00 until the end of the meeting day for family reasons Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, I am very pleased to say that the first, special vote that has been rejected by the general debate has not been passed in the end, because there are indeed a number of things that we need to talk about. And I understand that the implementing decree is a separate matter, and now we are voting on the law. But there are some things that appear and reflect in this law. And I understand, of course, that in these proposals, the issue of outpatient specialists with those 4 percent is so on the verge. I understand that practical doctors are complicated because they have a payment for capitalization and performance payments, that's fifty-fifty. So the increase will also be significantly smaller for them, because half of their price is based on a capital that is likely to remain constant. But I'd like to join what my colleague Richterová here said about the pharmacies issue. Pharmacies are clearly part of health care. And we have here in the draft compensation law, which has the shortcomings or the loss of the earnings to replace it by actually changing the amount of remuneration for the performance activity. Pharmacies or health care providers actually have no performance activities. They have one, which is completely economically irrelevant, premium for one recipe processing, but otherwise they are financed by the so-called signal regulation of the Ministry of Health, which apply the same to medicinal products from health insurance fully paid, partially paid and undefeated. Unlike other medical or other health providers, compensation for health insurance companies is not actually reflected in pharmacists and it follows from previous negotiations that they would not actually receive one. Therefore, if pharmacies did not receive full compensation for the costs related to COVID-19 from health insurance companies through the compensation law, but at the same time the possibilities of obtaining the benefit of waiver of insurance premiums from the Insurance Act - we know that this law is already in the Senate, is already under discussion and it is clear what is being discussed, and there the pharmacists are excluded from this Act, so I think it is necessary to find some way for the pharmacist to find some way to compensate for it. Therefore, I will propose that the same benefit as will be given to entrepreneurs outside the health sector under the Act on the remission of insurance premiums, in short, so that this law applies to pharmacies, i.e. to be entitled to the waiver of insurance premiums as non-medical entrepreneurs. Technically, of course, this should be done by an amendment to the insurance waiver law. But like I said, he's in the Senate, and after returning to the House, it would mean another delay. I therefore choose another solution, namely the amendment of the insurance waiver law by an amendment to the compensation law that we are debating now. The amendment is conceived by literally taking over the wording of the Act on the remission of premiums, and only as beneficiaries it lists the provider of pharmaceutical care wherever the Act on the remission of premiums appoints all employers. As for the number that is said in this law, it is given by the number of 50 employees. I warn you that 50 employees have 935 pharmacies in this country, which is less than a third of their total number. So I think that we shouldn't change anything about the law, that we should leave this number there and just put the pharmacies provider in this law, that is, verbis expressis there, that they have this right. The proposal, as I say here, has been entered, has its number, and I will join it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u25	Good morning, honourable Members, Members of the Government, we will continue the debate. I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Now, Mr Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly wanted to thank the seven Coalition Members who have made it possible for this debate to take place. I admit I didn't actually catch anything controversial. The debate was absolutely substantive. Even several Members voted against the debate, and it is important to mention that billions are spinning in the health sector and that decree will have implications for the real billions of public money, so I would appeal very much to the next time in the vote on the general debate not to be so tight, but to automatically approve, as has been the custom here so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Sorry... and also in the general debate. Okay, in that case, please, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I would also intercede not only for pharmacies, but also for the spa, as it was said here. First of all, the drugstores were in the front line. It was often very difficult for some patients to get to those pharmacies they usually go to, for example, the supermarket, because they were really afraid to meet a lot of people there, while, of course, they were closer to those smaller or smaller towns. Maybe they don't normally go there because they normally buy drugs or pick them up during shopping, and that's why the network is very important, because in such cases it's very difficult for patients, if they didn't work mass transportation as usual, or they didn't ride buses, so it was very important. The second thing is really a spa, because they got a big notch, and we are all aware that for many of these capacities they were set aside so that patients who would be infected would eventually be centrally placed there, if they actually broke out with a large percentage of people if the disease broke out. That means they held that possibility there, too. Of course, this must then compensate for most of the regions, but it was still a big intervention for them in their economy and, of course, their operating costs remained. So I'm sure I'm interrogating myself to take this into account. Of course, we are not discussing the specific wording of the decree, but we are discussing the parameters that will then appear in the decree, of course the House does not approve of the decree, it is a matter of the Ministry, we are talking about the fundamental principles and I think that this is why we should also talk about what would appear there and what we will actually allow the Ministry of Health to write in particular in the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u29	I thank Mr Pavel Bělobrádek for his speech and ask if anyone is still reporting for the general debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. He does, okay. Yes, thank you. I accidentally deleted my colleague Kaňkovský from a detailed debate, he's back there now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very brief. Indeed, the law empowers us to issue an appropriate decree, although it still needs to be stressed that it is possible to make a different decision. This law clearly contains provisions that it is possible to conclude a special contract between a health insurance undertaking and a particular provider. That's the debate we've been talking about. I don't know who said that, of course, there could be individual cases and so on, so it is not fundamentally restrictive in this regard that everyone has to follow only the compensation decree, but the health insurance company can take account of individual cases within its contractual freedom and contract with providers. So just enough to see what the framework is. [[10.10 hours]] But otherwise, of course, it is clear that we will all be primarily based on the so-called compensation decree. I am convinced that the way it is written and, of course, there will still be a debate about it, we will make comments, we will make comments to individual providers' representatives, as was actually the debate on the Health Committee, so that there will certainly be some parametric adjustments. But those principles on which it is set, I think they are simply correct and that they will ensure stabilisation and provide for the flow of funds. And I am convinced that on the basis of this decree and on the basis of the fact that we have managed to increase the payments for state insured persons, that our health services have indeed managed to stabilise financially in this direction, so this year will be stable and there will be no fluctuations, there will be no failures of health service providers. And that is the basis for ensuring constant, quality and affordable care for our citizens, for our patients. And it is this law and the subsequent decree that will certainly lead to this. And also, and that's important, there are actually fees for first-line medics in that decree, for paramedics who took care of the covid positive patients, both the intense ones and those on the standard bed. And in that regard, I think it's very important that both the law and the decree are passed as soon as possible, and the money is given to the paramedics. It is one of the priorities for us, as well as for nurses in social services. So in this respect, I think it's also very important, not only to bridge the blackout, but also to supply money for those who were actually on the front line. We expect that the compensation decree, if all goes well and the law is passed, should come out and be effective from 1. 7. That means practically a month, so that everyone can follow it. So thank you in advance for her support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u31	Thank you for the final words of the Minister of Health and I ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the final words. It's not like that. In that case, we can move on to the debate in detail. Before I give the floor to my colleague Kaňkovský, I state my apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 13:00 to the end of the day from Mr Jiří Valenta. Now, then, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u32	Mr Vice-President, Members of the Government, fellow Members, colleagues, allow me to sign up in a detailed debate to House document number 5556. There are several of them in the history of the press, so that's the very last one. And I'm going to follow up on a debate here that was about pharmaceutical care. Mrs Richterová, a colleague of Svoboda, and others, spoke very well here. Indeed, the area of pharmacy in the so far proposed compensation by the Ministry is not well addressed. Some may think pharmacies are just business, but, as the professor of Svoboda has already said, pharmacies are an important medical activity. And there was also talk about the so-called. small pharmacies, which really have a very crucial role to play in the life of smaller cities. Of course, the problem with their funding is long-term, it didn't just come up with a covid, we've been talking about it repeatedly. But the current pandemic of covid has declassified them even more. The difference with the big drugstores is that they don't really have the cotton wool in the high volumes of the drugs and the free sale. For citizens of these small towns, they are mostly cities, towns around 1,500 inhabitants, so especially for seniors or mothers with children, the operation of a pharmacy is a very important part of their lives in connection with practical doctors. And I believe that pharmacies need to be helped, compensated for the losses they had, and increased costs. Those options are double. There was talk of this so called. signal power for the issue of the item on the recipe. The Ministry here proposes to valorize by 1 kroner, from 15 to 16 kroner, which we consider to be very inadequate, but there will still be some meetings with the Minister and with the pharmacy chamber. Of course, the valorisation would help all pharmacies a little higher, that's what we need to say. And the second step that we can take towards those small pharmacies is not really eliminating aid to those small companies and forgiving them for three months of social contributions as we did in other sectors. Here I have to say that we discussed this very closely on the Health Committee and there was a rather wide discussion here yesterday and I want to thank representatives from basically all the Members' clubs who were interested in this issue, whether it was colleague Richterová and Třešňák of the pirát, ODS Bohuslav Svoboda, from STAN colleague Pávek, from the top of colleague Válek, we have dealt intensively with fellow Mrs Pastuchová, with colleague Věra Adámková, with colleague Běhounek, with colleague Aulicka and with colleague Brázdil, with colleague Maříková, and I have certainly forgotten someone. This area really is important, and I think it sounds like it's here. What we didn't agree on, how to combine or how to accommodate the limitation of the maximum number of employees. Normally in the law is 50, it is printing 875, about the remission of social security contributions, which we approved last week and is now in the Senate, and then there were lower versions, i.e. 25, 15 or 10. Personally, I am convinced that to help these pharmacies - and as my colleague Olga Richterová spoke here - to help those providers who have one tribal pharmacy and maybe two dispensaries in the surrounding municipalities - it is necessary to come up with at least 25 so that the upper limit is 25. That's why I've prepared a variant solution, and there are four variants in the press I signed up for. And then I would like to ask the voting procedure to vote descendingly, i.e. maximum 50, maximum 25, maximum 15 and maximum 10. In my opinion, the lower limit no longer meets the requirements of those providers who may have two dispensaries. Therefore, I would like to ask you very much to approve the second highest option, which is up to a maximum of 25 employees. Believe it'll help the pharmacies, but most importantly, it'll help the citizens in the smaller villages that the pharmacies will stay preserved. Thank you for your attention and for your support for this amendment, and thank you to all colleagues who have been discussing this issue very intensively tonight, and I hope that we will come to a common consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u33	I thank Mr Vít Kaňkovský for his amendment. Once again, I apologize for being erased from the detailed debate, but we have not forgotten it. So now, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda in a detailed debate, Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u34	Thank you. I thank my colleague Kaňkovský for a very detailed analysis of both the issue and the issue of pharmaceutical care. I would like to subscribe to my amendment, which I mentioned in the general debate, just to add a few more words. I would like to stress that my amendment represents a change that literally takes over the wording of the insurance waiver law and, as beneficiaries, lists the provider of pharmaceutical care wherever the insurance waiver law appoints all employers. It is therefore an amendment in this law and an amendment to the law which is already in the Senate. I consulted in the legislation, this path may be, and it's very simple, because only those pharmacies' beneficiaries would be there, and there would be a number 50. It is because there is a limit to the 50 employees in every business, and we should not distinguish whether it is less or more in pharmaceutical care. And on the other hand, I would like to say again that it concerns about 900 small pharmacies and that it is only one third of all small pharmacies, so that there will still be pharmacies that will be outside this law, but I would already see them as pharmacies that are not pharmacies in the true sense of the word, as we have mentioned here about the small pharmacies. So my proposal is the way of the compensation law to amend the insurance waiver law and leave pharmacists there as beneficiaries to the same extent as all other entrepreneurs. I therefore sign up for House document number 5553.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u35	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. And before I give the floor to Mr Martin Kupek, I state that there has been an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from today's meeting - for family reasons Kateřina Valachová apologises for the whole day. Please, Mr Martin Kupka has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u36	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to draw up an accompanying resolution that aims to manage all the promised steps in terms of payment of remuneration in time. We know that at this point in time, the regions still haven't received the funds, at least according to the latest information I have, the regions haven't yet received the funds to pay the rewards to all the paramedics. So I would like to read a resolution in this regard, which says: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to ensure, by 30 June 2020, the means of payment of remuneration to medical students who have been called up to fight coronavirus to assist in health care establishments.' And the second point: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to ensure, by 30 June 2020, the payment of remuneration to all medical and rescue workers involved in the management of the coronavirus crisis.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek. This has been the last duly entered into a detailed debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. I see no one, and I am ending the debate in detail. I ask whether there is an interest - the Minister or the rapporteur - in the final word after a detailed debate. It's not like that. Neither does the rapporteur. We will therefore decide whether we will continue to read it right away, but I think there is a need for amendments to be drawn up. Madam rapporteur? Or we interrupt and run more points like we did every time in a legislative emergency. How much time do you need to process the amendments? [[The rapporteur for Mrs Adámková.]] So let's interrupt this point. Without interruption? So if we're ready, we can, because Section 99 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Chamber of Deputies allows a short hearing to follow the third reading immediately after reading the second. That is why I am initiating the third reading and, please, the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Mrs Věra Adámková, to follow with me the debate that I am opening at the third reading. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. We can therefore proceed to vote if there is no interest in the final words. Before the vote begins at third reading, the Minister shall declare his final statement. Minister, I'm gonna ask you to wait. I'll ask the House for peace! Madam, honourable Members, we are just before the vote in the third reading, the final word of the Minister, I think, should be heard in a dignified atmosphere. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will only comment on the accompanying resolution, because if it says we have to secure funds by 30. 6. when the compensation decree is to be effective from 1. 7. and based on the decree we have to issue, money goes to health care and goes to hospitals, that's not how it works. So it's 30. 6. We cannot secure the means when the decree to secure the funds is from 1. 7. effective. Because we're gonna pass the law now, on the basis of that law, when it's finally approved in the Senate, signed by the President, so we can issue a compensatory decree that raises the money to hospitals and to rewards, that's where it's all contained. And the decree is from 1. 7. and under the decree then health insurance companies will pay money. So there is really no way to adopt a resolution that we have to secure funds by 30. 6. when the decree to ensure them is from 1. 7. effective. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u39	My colleague Kupka is reporting, but I have to do something, Mr. Benda on behalf of the club president, I understand with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are moving too fast. It really doesn't work like that. We must at least have what we vote on on the table. We've been doing this the whole time, even in emergency situations. It is simply not possible for us to vote on the proposals that have now been made in two minutes on the basis of how the rapporteur will read it to us, with all due respect for it. This is possible with accompanying resolutions. There I am still able to have some degree of tolerance. You can't do that with the law. Let's do some more points, let's wait, just like we did in all the previous cases, when the proposals that are there are going to be multiplied and then we can deal with them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-05-ps2017-049-07-001-001.u41	I asked the rapporteur, she said she was ready now. I knew that the amendments went through yesterday on the committee, and so if this is the proposal, then in that case I will interrupt the discussion of this point and we will return to it. My colleague Kupka will then have the floor in a renewed debate at third reading as we return to him. Yes? Do we understand each other? Okay. So I'm interrupting point one, and we're going to proceed with point 254. At this point, I thank the Minister of Health, thank you to the rapporteur, Mrs Adámková, and we will address paragraph 254. Until the second reading, the general and detailed debates of those third readings, the press 572 and 622, I interrupt item 1 until the press 572 and 622. Next is point number
