ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 24 and 25 /house prints 645 and 506/ Point 24 is a government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and Act No. 178/2016 Coll., amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, House press 645, first reading according to § 90 para. [[Education law]] [[Education law]] 2. Furthermore, there is the item of the proposal by Members Lukáš Bartoň, Lenka Kozlová, Martin Baxa, František Vácha, Jiří Mihola and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., School Act, as amended, House Press 506 - First Reading. [[Permanent noise in the courtroom.]] On 18 December 2019, at the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we renegotiated the merged general debate with these Houses of Press. I would remind you that the veto of two parliamentary clubs, the SPD and the KSČM was raised against the hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2 to the House press 645. I ask that the Minister of Education Robert Plaga and Mr Lukáš Bartoň take the position at the rapporteur's table. I remind you that the rapporteur for first reading is Mr Lukáš Bartoň, House Press 645, and Member Ivo Pojezný, House Press 506. We will therefore now continue the interrupted merged general debate. I have a point here that the hearing was suspended during the speech of Mr Ivo Pojezný. So I'm asking if he's interested in a sequel. [[Yes.]] The Member is interested in continuing his speech. Please, you have the floor. Everyone else involved, please be quiet in the hall. If you have anything to discuss, please move your debate into the lobby. Thank you. Especially at the rapporteur's table and in front of the speaker's table, I ask for peace. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me continue with the speech that has unfortunately been interrupted. I mean, not everything interrupts is pleasant, especially when you're in the middle of a speech, but when it was interrupted by Christmas holidays, it's not so bad. I was talking about the expert opinion of a very well-founded person who teaches mathematics and English language, a person who has been a collaborator for ten years in the evaluation and validation of didactic tests, a certified evaluator of the English language oral exam, a person who made the chair of many senior committees and is currently also a senior commissioner. I will say very briefly, he spoke not only about mathematics but also about Czech language and foreign language. He himself opposes the change of assessment, whether for the reasons that the current tests are internationally comparable, they meet international standards. He clearly said that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is currently trying to get the written work and oral exams back to the profile section, which completely lacks the logic of the integrity of all three sub-tests, and I will try to prove that in the following speech. The last part I was talking about was math. He himself speaks of the fact that the math exam is not so problematic, de facto a handy ninth grader after he mastered mathematics would have passed the 33 percent, i.e. a fourth grade, without a problem. And I said last but not least that enough hours of mathematics to keep this mathematics mandatory. Students or pupils will discuss everything that contains a catalogue of requirements. It is therefore only up to them how they approach mathematics and whether they learn mathematics or not. Sadly, many feel that mathematics can be learned in a similar way as in history or other subjects, that is, by reading something or by looking at it, and then, in some way, in quotation marks, they actually wrap it up. That they can only learn by looking at the examples calculated. But everyone who's studied mathematics, everyone who's taught it, knows very well that it's not that they have to sit down. This means that he has adopted a course - that he sits down and calculates various examples on the basis of what he has learned. I think it was also mentioned by a fellow Zahradník. That is so - we have musically educated colleagues here - so it is the same as for musical instruments. You can't just listen to music, watch it play, but you have to sit down with the instrument, take it in your hand, and practice every day to achieve something. That makes math a little more specific than other subjects. However, if something could change, and I agree with my colleague Valachová, let the Government's regulation on determining the subjects that will have a compulsory math degree be amended. But it is certainly not wise to pour out a bathtub with a child, which the current proposal of the Ministry of Education does. Moreover, under this mask, he also wants to change the Czech language and literature and foreign language. After all, as some students and students do not want to graduate from mathematics, we will find students who have problems with the Czech language and, of course, with a foreign language. Will this mean for the future that we will consider whether to graduate from the Czech language or from a foreign language? I hope not. In my opinion, every successful senior should have his report card firmly built on a tripod Czech language - mathematics - a foreign language at a minimum state level. Today's gymnasists and lyceists of economic lyceum, pedagogical lyceum, medical or technical lyceum, who are now in the third year and in less than a year, I think it will be the end of this year, they will apply for graduation, now they are living in great uncertainty, even though they are preparing for this whole fact that they will graduate from this trifle, similar to the second and first years. Everything is to be decided here in the Chamber of Deputies, and perhaps, which I certainly do not wish, they are to completely change the rules from which they are to graduate in the way they are to graduate. Just before the rehearsal, something like that isn't fair. I got some e-mail reactions last year for my performance, the first part. Most of those reactions were from students who were opposed to having to graduate from mathematics. One of the students was holding on to the password that the cheeky forehead was better than the backyard. He only wanted a meaningful answer from me, the one he wanted to hear himself. The others, I have to tell them that they either wrote me this email somewhere on a date with one finger, but I want to say clearly that they will not only have problems with mathematics but also with the Czech language. Nobody wrote me in a foreign language. [[14.50 hours]] However, I also received a letter from another very well-founded person, from a member of the association of foreign language methodologies AMATE, CERMAT expert teams and the National Institute for Education, an English teacher at the grammar school, who has long dealt with the issue of state exams from foreign languages. You may have gotten the e-mail after all, too. I don't know if in the same form, but I'm sure there was an AMATE reaction to a foreign language graduation exam. Not only did she thank me for the show, but she writes: Most of the debateers only dealt with the issue of the cancellation or non-disturbing of compulsory math graduation. Your contribution is the only one who draws attention to the serious risks associated with the reduction of the state graduation exam from foreign languages only to the didactic test. State graduation is currently tested in foreign languages comprehensively both the skill to understand written and spoken text, as well as the ability to write and speak in a foreign language. The amendment to the law breaks this comprehensive testing unsystemically, leaving only a didactic test in the hands of the state, which, by ticking the right answers, can only test passive understanding. Evaluation of the ability of active application of language, i.e. speaking and writing, would be moved 100% to the competence of schools. Therefore, foreign language teachers are expected to prepare their own written and oral exam at the required level, define it themselves and define the evaluation criteria for these tests themselves and decide for themselves what the requirements for their fulfilment will be. This amendment not only does not allow the level of language skills achieved in a foreign language to be determined within the state graduation, but also moves the oral and written examination from foreign languages completely into the competence of schools at a time when there are insufficient conditions for such a non-systemic change to take place. The amendment to the Education Act is intended to transfer responsibility for the communication part of the graduation from foreign languages to schools at a time when - first, more than a third, exactly 34.6 percent, teachers of foreign languages in secondary schools who will prepare and implement the graduation, teach language without appropriate aprobation, i.e. without guaranteed professional competence. This is finally discussed in the annual report of the Czech School Inspectorate for the School Year 2018-2019 and unfortunately, the development of and publicity tends to decline according to the Czech School Inspectorate reports. Secondly, teachers are not prepared for this change, which should take place from the next school year. For others, in most secondary schools with graduation degrees, neither the acclaimed teachers of foreign languages have had experience in the preparation of graduation exams prior to the introduction of the state diploma from a foreign language. For the last time, no teacher support is being prepared. The state exam from a foreign language in its present form meets both teachers and pupils, giving future employers information about the minimum level of foreign language achieved. All parts of the test are professionally prepared and comply with the required level. Complaints about inaccuracies, uncertainties or even errors in individual parts of the exam did not appear in the case of a foreign language graduation at all times. In the annex, the teacher gives us the position of AMATE, an association of foreign language methodologies, the main reasons why we consider the maintenance of the state graduation exam in the current form to be absolutely essential. You got two attachments. Everyone got it, so I think whoever wanted to meet this guy got to know him, too. In conclusion, I am from an area where the teacher of the nations Jan Amos Komenský was ordained as a priest almost 400 years ago, in Žerovice, in a beautiful town in Kyjov, so I believe that our decision will not be such as to reduce and reduce the level of education of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u3	Thank you and we will now continue here in the debate. It is Mrs Majerová's turn to sign up in writing. - I'm sorry. I'm deeply sorry. A point of fact, Mr Rais takes precedence. We don't have to do this... no, factual point. Please. It hasn't started yet, Madame. We're both sorry, I didn't realize it jumped in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u4	So we all apologized to each other. I'm basically going to say that actually this is the third negotiation, where there are more or less a bunch of arguments here for math graduation, on the other hand, arguments against mathematics. I believe that this is precisely that we should move these discussions to the Education Committee and then agree there and then shorten the discussion of this proposal here by 30 days. This should work out in time so we can make it, because we're in some kind of time frame, too. So more or less an appeal towards our colleagues so that we can transfer a number of these negotiations to the Education Committee and reduce them to 30 days' discussion of this press. [[A voice from the diaper: the government press.]] This one. Yes, I'm talking about the government press, because otherwise there's a motion to dismiss as far as the pirate proposal is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u5	Thank you and now, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, given that this is a merged debate on two points. I will make a very brief statement on the first one. Tricolore supports and therefore does not reject the bill, it supports administrative simplification of state maths. We do not have a problem with that, however, as we said at our press conference today in the morning, and it is also part of our programme, general education and general level of education in developed countries is entirely conditional on math graduation. We think that graduation as such should not even have only two compulsory subjects that, within some level completed by the graduation exam, graduation should include three compulsory subjects, namely Czech, mathematics and foreign language. And now I'm just gonna go back to the math graduate thing itself. There are different opinions and voices that society is not prepared for this in some way, teachers are not prepared for it. The only thing I can see is the child's nervousness. However, in the current legislation, the law, as it is, counted on the math degree. So if math graduation was preserved, then nothing really changes. We in Tricolore prevent math graduation for reasons that I have already mentioned because it not only benefits the level of education, but it is also in favour of the Czech economy and industry. And a few more references to the polls. I have noticed just in the context of the public debate about what we should focus on and why some want to push it, that those teachers are not competent enough, which I absolutely, absolutely agree with, because we have been teaching these kids since primary school. Mathematics is from some third grade in the daily program and the time subsidy for this subject is five hours a week. It's up to ninth grade, same thing in high school. After all these years, we're not gonna tell these kids it was just like that. I think that if there is such a time grant for something, not to mention the content of the finance it brings, then the final math exam should be. And it's set right, and we don't want to change it. [[15.00 hours]] Another paradox that I would very much like to draw attention to, and I will now quote, in some way, that I do not say the numbers completely wrong. The Minister of Education Robert Plaga provided inaccurate information here before Christmas when discussing the amendment to the Education Act on Maths. You said the failure of math maths was 24 percent. But I pulled out the official statistics of Cermat, and according to these statistics, the net failure of primary mathematicians in the spring of 2019 was only 15.5% and after the fall 2019 amendment it was 11.7 percent, and we know that pupils still have a third term available, so the resulting share is then significantly lower. And just for comparison of those fears about mathematics - the pure failure of the Czech language and literature primarys was 16.2 % in the spring term of 2019, which is 0.7 percent more unsuccessful graduates from the Czech language than I mentioned a moment ago. And from the English language and from the German language together it was some 33.6 percent. So if we evaluate it in terms of failure, math is by far not the worst. On the contrary, it is by far the worst of foreign languages, then Czech and mathematics is on the brunch itself. I realize that, within some political lobby and the acquisition of young first-timers, it is very sympathetic and perhaps beneficial to go hand in hand with the fact that compulsory mathematics graduation will not be, because it is an unpleasant test for many in terms of nervousness. But that's why it's called graduation. And that's why everyone shouldn't have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u7	Thank you. The next one for the debate is Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make just a quick remark. I would like to draw attention to the long-term intention of education and development of the education system of the Czech Republic 2019-2023, which is the House Press 563, which was delivered to us as Members on 2 August 2019. On page 55 you will learn the following in case of a change in the model of the graduation exam: "At present, there are high school associations, social partners and discussion about other changes in the system of state graduation exams. In the short term by 2020, MŠMT wants to push for the following changes in the field of graduation exams:' - I will poke one that is essential for our debate. "Legislative anchoring of the annual delay of the effectiveness of three mandatory examinations of the common part of the graduation exam - Czech language, foreign language, mathematics - i.e. from the school year 2021/2022, in most fields of education. The purpose is to implement this change for all fields of education from the trial period, i.e. gymnasium and lycea will no longer be postponed by a year." So much long-term intention, which has been approved by our great government of the ANO movement and social democracy. And it's a shame that this whole government proposal that we're discussing isn't responding. I would like to recommend that we approach this will of the government as close as possible to being able to pass through first reading and subsequent readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u9	Thank you. Mr Gazdík is also enrolled in the debate. He's not present in the hall at the moment. Mr. Zahradník, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it my duty to join the debate on this bill, or on these two laws, especially because the main topic of the debate is actually the proposal for a substantial postponement, or actually the abolition of compulsory mathematics graduation. I must say that I am fundamentally opposed to the abolition of the compulsory graduation exam. Mathematics is one of the basic formative subjects of today's educational system, as it was in earlier centuries in the case of Latin, when Latin formed logical reasoning, so gradually assumed its role in mathematics. Mathematics was the one who taught high school students to think logically, solve problems, know whether the problem is solved, or nothing, or whether the conclusions that the student gained are real. Mathematics teaches this to students. And its abolition, in my opinion, is not correct. There is a rather significant media debate here on various websites - Internet, Facebook, Twitter. And even in the paper, there's a debate going on, and different people are expressing themselves. Sometimes such images are used that have nothing to do with graduation at all, on those tables that usually have a pretty student standing in front of them, confused patterns are more like -- I guess the author thinks -- integral numbers, but they have nothing to do with graduation. I think it would be good if we didn't make any definitive verdicts. It would be good if we let this law go into second reading. It's imperative that the seniors... or the students who are due for graduation next year know what awaits them. I can prove myself from constant contact with the students that there is quite a lot of nervousness between them. It would be good for them to know how it will be in 2021. That is why it is necessary to discuss this law. Cancel math is a bad move. And it reminds me of one of our decisions concerning another law, but also from the school club. It's the law he's got in our house, I think, yes, number 26 on the agenda. It is an amendment to the Education Worker Act, which would return the opportunity for teachers who do not have pedagogical education but have vocational education, to teach at primary and secondary schools. During the last parliamentary term, there was a rather rich discussion where we tried to turn our colleagues away from prohibiting teachers who, for example, have an engineering degree but do not have pedagogical exams to teach in schools. We warned that this would bring about a deepening problem with the lack of teachers. It didn't happen. The coalition then proclaimed the law, and today it reaps the fruit of its unfortunate decision. There's a shortage of teachers. School heads have to go around this law in different ways so that they can finally accept someone. Then it may turn out that someone without that pedagogical education may be a better teacher than some really educated teacher who has the paper at his disposal. [[15.10 hours]] Today, in an extensive interview at a radio station, former Minister Valachová spoke of it. She very much rejected this novel today. She pleaded with us to keep us from teaching those who do not have pedagogical education. She presented examples of the most deterrent professions that could come to school and commit various iniquities. Among them, she listed a gardener. I don't think she meant it that way. But maybe some gardener could teach at some gardening school. We see, we're going back to that, and the mistake we made in the past period, we're trying to fix it now. There is quite some political context, and I would like to warn you that we should not close our path, cancel our high school mathematics graduation and then go back to that in a year's time, because we would find that this brings about a decline in education, significant damage to our high school education system. But I have to warn you here, it won't be that easy. Once we cancel the math at graduation, the strong lobby of those comfortable young people who don't want to worry about hard learning math will be so strong that they'll never allow math to come back to common sense again and to be part of graduation at least at high school and high school. So I'll support sending it to second reading. I'll watch the committee deal with it. I hope that there will be some compromise, which will only mean a partial delay, a solution to the current situation, and then perhaps our successors will come back to this in the next term and sort out the question of mathematics graduation. So, brains to the hand. Let's not interrupt something that's worked here for decades, centuries. Mathematics was a part of graduation in the 19th century. So let's not interrupt, let math retain its significance, which is undeniably hers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u11	Thank you and there are two factual points. First, Mrs Valachová, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u12	I'm just doing my honorary colleague's previous performance. I will definitely respond, but then in the debate under the Education Worker Act - I'm just saying, of course, I won't leave it without a response, but I won't hold it up now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u13	Well, that was quick de facto. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just very briefly in response to a fellow Zahradník. Mathematics graduation is not interrupted, it merely preserves the current state where pupils can choose between mathematics and a foreign language. It's the same thing that's going on today, so please don't really imply that someone here wants to cancel something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u15	Thank you. Now for the debate, Mr Juříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said my opinion last time, as we discussed it, but now I would like to direct you to one of the things I heard in Hyde Park Civilization, when I was watching my favorite show with Daniel Stach, who had a guest there named Simon Peter Worden, former CEO of NASA, and together with today's dead Stephen Hawking, even before Stephen Hawking died in March 2018, they invented a program of a solar screen powered by thousands of lasers, where the sun visor flies to our nearest star, Proxině Centauri. And when Daniel Stach asked Peter Simon Worden what we could say to any civilizations we might encounter on the road, Simon Worden replied: "We should definitely say, and it is the symbol and basis of our entire civilization that we know mathematics." I think this is a clear demonstration that we should have great respect and humility in front of the smartest people who no doubt accompany us in this world, and we should honor their message. And I think it's perfectly logical that compulsory mathematics, virtually. compulsory mathematics graduation is a logical outcome of what we should do, especially when the Czech Republic speaks that we want to be Country for the Future. I, as a developer and as an entrepreneur, could never imagine working without mathematics. And I'm a tiny man against the great geniuses who gave us this message. I think you should all think about it. And I think it's quite obvious what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u17	Thank you. Mr Petr Gazdík is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The fact that the hall is half empty on this subject is very strange because I dare say that we are meeting one of the most fundamental laws that this House will probably enforce or approve during this parliamentary term. The future of education in the Czech Republic is essential to determine what it will look like in the Czech Republic in the longer term. What it's gonna look like in 20 years. If we become just a montage or subservient to the Asian economies and some sort of touristic scandal, or if we really continue to be a country with quality labour, it can boast of educated people and use its education properly in the economy. The Ministry published a plan for the Education Strategy by 2030. And part of the plan is very ambitious targets. The change in the curriculum, because let's say openly, today we are not only discussing compulsory mathematics, but we are discussing whether our education will still be 19th century education, or we will move into the 21st century. And here we are a little bit in mandatory math graduation catching up on a huge rest. We, as politicians, have failed a little as educators, because in the last ten years, we can't define what mandatory graduation is supposed to look like, the state graduation. It's not just math. Graduation is constantly changing: one day there's an essay, one day it's not there. One day there's a math degree, one day there isn't. Once it's fixed by Cermat, once in school, once a foreign language is like that, the second it's poppy. Those are things that shouldn't be like that. And I would very much like us today not only to address mandatory math graduation, but to have a much bigger and much more ambitious goal: to change state graduation to suit education and to show how education should look in the 21st century. I would like to call on the Minister of Education not to repeat the situation that has been repeated for the last ten years. To convene a round table of all the political parties represented in this House and to conclude a joint agreement on what a mandatory state graduation will look like in the next ten years. Those students, teachers, the public, and parents just don't deserve this thing to change depending on whether there's Petr or Pavel in the government, whether there's this or the poppy tree. Our education already deserves to be stable, so that we know what we want and what it should look like for our children. This will also depend on the attitude of the starosta and independents as to how we deal with the two laws. But I want to remind you that it's not just about math graduation anymore, it's about whether the 21st century's state graduation is going to be the same, or it's going to change every two years, and we're still going to be in the 19th century. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Mr Václav Klaus, then the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u20	Hello. I will use the factual remark to respond to the previous speaker, Mr Gazdík, because that is precisely the point. The point is to ensure a stable and simple environment in schools. Indeed, the easiest thing we think is that graduation is to be made from Czech, foreign language and mathematics in the state form as simple as possible for the state to verify the bar, and the rest of the complicated agenda - oral, styles, etc. leave it at school. I therefore repeat that we support this law, those parts simplifying. We differ in access to mathematics. And I warn you, that's why I'm actually performing now, one more thing, that while those MPs have been here for years and years, or it's been 10 years, 15 years, they're always arguing, then they're always before the election, so they're pushing it away and canceling it, so we're sneaking down the level of graduation, because frankly, there's no other way to read those numbers. Those seniors in 2019 couldn't have been 7 percent better or better, because my kids have graduated before, so now it's really improved, that's nonsense. So every decent high school math teacher will tell you that this graduation is starting to remind you of Běloun from that math class. And we're still trying to get those kids out of it so we can eventually get a voter's first vote. This is a policy that is not in favour of education, it is not in favour of the economy, it is not in favour of nothing. So please support our changeling and let's approve the rest of the law created by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u21	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, three rapid reactions. If it was said that I used an inaccurate number of 24 percent, then if I was looking at the log, it was at the moment when I quoted the Member, Minister Valachová, at that time, on failure in that year. That means it wasn't the actual number, it was the quote number. About what just happened here, the extension of time, virtually. improvement of results by 7 %, so it is in custody for the extension of the period given there in the last year. That means, there's no way that the improvement can be reduced by examples, but that the time has been extended. It was for specific educational needs and for cases where it was as if it were documented. As for what Mr Juříček said, so very simply. I'll identify myself and identify myself, no matter whether we support mandatory math graduation or the choice between math and foreign language graduation, that the goal - what happened in Hyde Park, that what civilization is, that we know how to do math must be common. All I'm saying is that a math degree isn't gonna get students and kids to know math. The system's deeper and the paper won't solve it. We all want them to know math. The change in funding for regional education, which is now successfully starting, allows the hours to be divided, but, yes, the problems are organised within 15-20 years and are linked to the fact that there is a shortage of teachers of mathematics and physics. And I never said teachers taught low-quality mathematics. I was talking about a lack of teachers. That means where an unqualified teacher is, even he can teach well, but he certainly has worse conditions than someone who has graduated. That's in response to what happened here, and I think we're in agreement, although we're different in whether or not there's a mandatory math degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u23	Thank you. I'm sorry I pressed your time there. The Member shall make a factual statement. Of course, you could speak with a right of priority unlimited, but you fit, Minister. In the debate, Mr Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u24	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I was here last time, when we talked about this law, he opposed the delay for ten years, because the delay for ten years is de facto annulment. So I think that it is completely unacceptable for me and for a number of my colleagues. I would like to say that we discussed this topic at the Czech Association's School Committee and the overwhelming majority of all representatives - the overwhelming majority of all representatives - were opposed to this law in order for the mathematics graduation to be abolished. However, we are not, of course, demagogs, we are not militant in the fact that we do not realize that a change in math graduation is absolutely necessary and will take some time to do so. That is why, at the last meeting of the School Committee of the Regional Association, we agreed that a shift by a year, a maximum of two, is something that would create space for math graduation not to really become a scarecrow, so that it wouldn't just be a test, so that it would just have some level that would be able to assess whether or not the math in question knows how to do it. I wanted to say that, too, and it has already been said here that mathematics is part of general education and math graduation is a graduation from thinking. We don't have a substitute for what math has to offer today. Some say Latin. Yes, I think that's also something that might be worth considering, but I think that the future really stands on a math degree for everyone, even if they don't use it completely in that life, but they'll prove that they're able to think. I am also of the opinion that we need to resolve this problem as quickly as possible. It happened to me recently when I met some of our grammar school students that they told me when I asked them how it would be with math graduation, how they look forward to it, so they said - she had already been canceled. Here, please, in the media world, it works that actually math graduation has been canceled. I would like to say, and this is true here for Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President, that the current legislative regulation talks about the responsibilities of mathematics graduation since 2021/2022 for lyceos, grammar school, and 2022/2023 for everyone else. That means it's the current state of affairs. And I think that we should respect that, and we should really close this problem down really quickly. In my opinion, there are compromises, but I don't see a compromise in canceling math graduation. I see a compromise in finding a way to make a math degree so that it can evaluate the abilities of our students and graduates of high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u25	Thank you. Several factual points. First Mrs Valachová, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u26	I would like to support what has been said here, including the fact that I refer once again to the long-term intention of the education system, which is a binding document and document that we are discussing paradoxically in parallel, but I would also like to say that the possibility of a two-year delay is something on which all the directors' associations, teachers' associations and school unions can agree, that is, those actors who are just mentioned in the long-term plan, and I think it would be worth remembering in the second and third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u27	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Klaus. [[Messenger. Ferjenčik checked out.]] He stáhnout - yes, I see, so Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u28	I will respond to the previous speaker, Mr Vondrák, through you. The debate is not very politicized, and that's a good thing, but when we talk about the fact that the proposal to postpone it by ten years is de facto an annulment, I am quite frankly telling you that the proposal to postpone it by two years is in pale blue the same thing. We simply face it, say that it is in favour of Czech education, in favour of education, we leave it as it is in the law, or we chase some political points, we move something, we push it behind the elections, and that is no use. And when we talk about math not being a scarecrow, the numbers show that much greater failure is with German. So just as the MP or the minister can stand up - cancel the German exam because young people are afraid of it and der, die, das is very complicated and they can't graduate from it. Worse results were in Czech as well last year, so let's just get up and say that it doesn't matter anyway, because we live in the EU and Czech isn't important, so let's cancel Czech at graduation. And this way we can go on forever. So I would prevent the delay, because it's political as in cunning, or cowardice, or incompetence, but it's just not a basic solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u29	Thank you. Mr Vondrák's point of fact. Mrs Valachová then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u30	Just a little bit more. It is currently mentioned that grammar school and lycea 2021/2022, other schools 2022/2023. [[Objection from the O.R.]] Moved again? Oh, sorry 2020/2021 and 2021/2022, I'm sorry. So the point is, if we identify with the fact that grammar school and lycea will be graduating in the same year as the other schools, that means that year of displacement. But this shift is not a political calculus, this is really about getting the math degree ready accordingly. That is, therefore, the extra time so we can agree on what this mathematics graduation should look like. Because I also find it inappropriate for a senior who doesn't write a math exam so that he misses one single point, failed his graduation. That seems too bordering for us to say that this guy doesn't know how to do math. So that's why this extra time. That means either we identify it with all schools and give it one more year tops, so it's not a political calculus, it's not cowardice, it's nothing else. It's what we agreed on in the entire School Committee of the Regional Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u31	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u32	I must honestly convince Václav Klaus Jr. that he is right about the delays, of course. After all, even today's point of discussion, when we are discussing the delay that we approved or adopted a few years ago, confirms this. However, it is certainly not on my part cunning, what I have proposed or supported my colleague Vondrák. Rather, it is an effort to make it clear to schools and students, as it will be. Because if you listen carefully to the debate that is already being held here by the third plenary, each member's club has a different opinion as to how it should look, and there are three other opinions within the parliamentary club. That is, of course, the worst thing we could have done to schools and students, and it's unfair. So my proposal is more of a helpful move to conclude this debate as quickly as possible with a clear result and mostly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u33	Good afternoon, honourable Members. We will continue, and before I give the floor to Jiří Mihol - I thank my colleague for keeping the time to comment - I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Mr Jan Bauer from 15.30 to 18:00. So now a duly registered colleague Jiří Mihola, Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u34	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Discussion is a good thing, but I'm almost impressed here - and I listen carefully, I'm not going anywhere - as if we're disturbing the math today completely or completely burying it. All that's left is to fold on a wreath and figure out what's gonna happen instead of her. That's how the debate works for me. There's no way I want to argue with how important math is, that it's definitely one of the most important, key subjects, how it develops logic, which I don't think we need to clarify here. But when she's in every year, she continues to develop that logic regardless of whether she's gonna be a senior exam or not. It was said here, and I have to do a bit of good with one colleague, that slowly as if in a civilized country there was simply a mathematics graduation, and that makes it logically clear to me that where it is not, as if it were not civilized, or as if the one who did not graduate from mathematics was a second-class student. I really, really don't think so. And I don't think we can argue that way. I'm sure I think a little bit of college would contribute to the fact that they have certain requirements for what math is needed, and it doesn't go through the train. There, let's focus on not really taking students who aren't qualified to some field where they lack something crucial. But I would find you a number of students who would ask you: What about us who went through those six hours of mathematics a week and we don't see any special benefits for practice or for life or any difference from when they're less than they are today? So I would suggest that we think a little bit about how important it is for key issues - not just school laws, but now we have education, so school laws - to seek consensus for them across political clubs, because when we take it here, there is no unity in the view, whether I perceive it well or in a government coalition, which should logically determine how it is going to be, or not. I can see that there isn't even a single opinion across those clubs. And from that I can see that the fact that we've really started this debate, and now there's really almost philosophical meditation on whether math graduation is mandatory or not, so we've actually just pushed it away. It really isn't serious about those students so - it's 2020/2021, it's mandatory math graduation according to the current text of the school bill, and here it's divided where one looks. Just put yourself in the position of the student who's supposed to come out of this. It's really very difficult. Now I'll look away from the fact that, of course, the arguments are falling from different sides, where I understand that if the person who argues for is from technology or has a lifetime relationship to it, he will logically find the arguments for it. On the other hand, someone feels that students don't like math, so it's better to say no, let's not do it at all. And I would warn you about how the promises were made here - so let's do it in two years. We know how fast that time is, and in two years, we'll be in front of the same problem. For 30 years there's this math option, there's nothing going on, and now there's always these crazy discussions about whether to teach math classically or to let in those alternative methods like Hell and others, or whatnot. I, when we were talking before it was decided on the compulsory introduction of mathematics, warned us to discuss the content of the subject first. That's what's going on here, too, like talking about the content of the subject, about it being more related to practice and stuff. But you know you can't do it in a month. We won't be able to do that during one long discussion. So please don't embarrass ourselves in front of the public, but even in front of those students that in two years, we'll be dealing with the same sloppy business, so what about it? In my opinion, actually, when this discussion started out like this, the Minister of Education, the key person, he has some opinion about it, there's something put forward here, there's a parliamentary proposal, so I think it's more or less decided, and we should just speed things up so that it's clear and we didn't leave those students in doubt. That's all. And in the meantime, let's have some fun, let's really save some time, let's talk about committees, seminars, and somewhere else, what to do with this fascinating math. As an object, she stays, so no one loses logic, she won't just have a math degree if she doesn't want to. When it could have worked for thirty years, neither the Czech Republic nor the world will stop, so first we will really focus on the content of the subject and on the focus for practice or connection simply with the university study and so on and we will not make any rash decisions that - eventually another government will come, and again it will be completely different. So please, some broad consensus and we really think about the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u35	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol. It raised two factual points - Mr Pavel Plzák and Mr Jiří Bláha. The Minister of Education is given priority rights, but only after factual remarks. So now two minutes colleague Pavel Plzák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u36	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. I was listening to a previous speaker, and I thought of a heretical thought. If I'm telling you this right, he told us that he could actually graduate the course, those four years, and do some graduation. So he was thinking about math. Can you explain to me, my colleague, through Mr President, why is the graduation exam even being made out of an object? As you put it, it would actually be enough to go through that high school without failing, we should get some graduation papers, and with that, we could go on with our lives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jiří Bláha's point of view now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u38	Dear colleagues, colleagues, I would have the same thing, a little bit different. It said here: What about the pupils? But what about those parents who decide where they put their child who can't do anything? Whether it's math or physics or chemistry at that school. And now they're looking at which school would be the best place for this graduation to end up being written so that the person in question, or the student in question, would have graduated from something so that he could say, "Hey, I'm graduating, give me more money." So we should think about the essence of the thing. That means if we say, "Mathematics is actually learning well now, then why do I have to graduate from Czech, what good is it for me to learn who wrote what book?" Or do I learn to quote poems? I don't think it's gonna get much in my life either, do you? So this is where we're thinking about math. And I really would say, let's just deal with education so that we can really teach well, which seems to me, after the people who are graduating from school come to work, that they are often less capable than those with common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the Minister of Education and prepared by colleague Jan Skopeček. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been some very interesting suggestions here, one of my colleagues Gazdík. I am, of course, prepared after the commandment of the Education Committee not only to the debate on the Education Committee, but also this debate and the two previous ones are clear proof that education is such a cross-cutting topic that I am definitely ready to talk about the future of education, not just the 2030+ Strategy, but also about how the mathematics and other subjects should look, or the final exam in secondary education at all, and how the education system of the Czech Republic should look at the wider plenary. So I'm picking up the glove, but I'm saying it's fully in the context of how we're going to prepare the 2030+ Strategy as an entirely open document and with a public hearing. And the second thing that was said here by Mr Mihola. Let's hear it again. Yes, let's talk about somehow fulfilling what was once wanted after graduating from math school, and that's to be some kind of college ticket. But the moment you have a level of math for everyone, without distinction, the universities, logically, didn't even consider it a coin in this optional system. This solution is offered because it is at this moment after experimental verification of Mathematics+, thus more difficult mathematics. And I think 17 faculties already think of it as a coin at the entrance exams. Of course, I'll be honest again, when you have a demographic saddle and you have the smallest age cohort of 19-year-olds, there's not that much pressure on college. But the situation will change in a few years. And if we get Mathematics+ as a very clear tool of that, and that's for my debate with the Czech Rector Conference, as an instrument that will be accepted by universities, it's exactly the thing that wants to get a higher level of mathematics to enter university. And what I think is missing, and I'm offering to do it again, is that in the form of the Mathematics+, which, by the way, is praised, but of course it's for the debate and the content with the universities, that's where the people go with this type of graduation. Then I think that matematika+ can, of course, be voluntary, not mandatory for everyone, we can also meet the expectations that were once made after math graduation. It's another instrument, as I say, I'm ready to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u41	I thank the Minister of Education Robert Plag. Now, Mr Jan Skopeček, duly registered. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u42	Thank you for the floor. I'm not gonna keep this up for long, because I'm sure there are more qualified mathematicians and long-time teachers here who have something to say about it. Moreover, I agree that the main thing that we should also do is give students some certainty or information about what they will actually graduate from, or won't, and that it's not very fair to keep them in doubt. However, I'll make a few arguments. I want to stand up for a compulsory math degree, even if it's not a popular opinion for a young generation. My main argument is that in my opinion - and many of you have said it repeatedly - mathematics cultivates and develops logical thinking, and I simply disagree with the argument that there are professions that will not need mathematics in their lives, or those people who will pursue those professions. I think it's stupid that logical thinking, critical thinking, the ability to put things into context we all need, or we all need in life, no matter what profession we pursue. The other argument I'm making for math is simple. We are one of the most industrialized countries in the EU. In short, for future success, for future prosperity, we need a highly qualified, technically, mathematically, science-qualified workforce, because without that, we will not continue to develop the industry, the technology. Even that in the first Republic we were one of the most advanced countries in industry, so we also thanked that at that time that the population of mathematics and technical science were at a very, very high level. At the same time, I think, and a number of tests confirm that those countries where there is good knowledge, above-average knowledge of mathematics, so they are more successful, there are more innovations, there are inventions, that country just goes forward. And I think that if we want to move the Czech Republic forward, that we should not reduce our demands, but that we should increase those demands. However, I agree that we should be fair to the students and we quickly decided and gave the students a clear report on how they will graduate. Although I have to smile a little bit, because I graduated in 1998. When I started my first year of high school, the math professor at the time warned us that our colleagues in the year above us would not still have the graduation, that they would only be the test year, which would be the test method to fill out - that was when it was called Scio's math tests, and that we would really be the ones to graduate. That was a year... I graduated in 1998, or some 1994. The state's inability to make any progress since then is simply incredible. And I agree that if there's a proposal here to postpone math for ten years, then we're just lying to each other because it's no delay, but it's the abolition of mandatory math graduation for the quotes of eternal times. I don't think there's a two-year delay in math, because if the argument today is that math can't learn and that it's time to get ready for it, I'm not sure that in two years something so crucial is going to happen in our education that we're going to say here in two years that we're finally going to have the education improved and the teaching of math improved so that now with a calm heart, we can move on with the graduation. I think and would also like to stress that, in my opinion, it cannot be an argument for whether or not to introduce compulsory mathematics degrees can be a success in the previous years. Let's face it, the failure in past years is, in my opinion, given by two phenomena. One phenomenon is that many students were afraid to graduate from a foreign language even more than from mathematics, and even those students who simply do not have a natural tendency to mathematics chose it out of less concern and then ended badly. The second phenomenon, in my opinion, is more serious. It is true that a number of disciplines that, in recent years or ten years ago, ended up with a teaching certificate, so we stupidly let the state make them into graduations so as to increase interest in them. And it is clear that in these earlier teaching disciplines, which ended with a teaching certificate, the success of graduation will simply be poor and very low, but this should not lead us to interrupt or delay compulsory mathematics graduations, but should lead us to do so, virtually. regions setting up secondary schools should lead to a certain field of optimization and return of some of the fields from those graduates back to teaching. Because it's just not normal for us to have some schools where the vast majority of students fail their graduation. It's not the student's fault, it's not their stupidity, it's just the stupidity of the regional establishment and the school's principal that he has such a field at school, that he has it as a senior, and that he's trying to lead these students, kids who could have ended up with a teaching certificate and applied to the labour market, so he's dragging them to a senior education. That's a few of my arguments for introducing mandatory graduation. [[15.50 hours]] Maybe one more. In the end I did not have to graduate from mathematics, but I had to do mathematics anyway, because the entrance exams at the university of economic direction simply required mathematics, so even those who did not graduate from mathematics and went to this type of school, so the mathematics had to be at the same level in which she was taught by the seniors, to tutor because otherwise, of course, they would not have a chance to accept the university of this type. When we look at how the entrance exams work today, everybody gets to high school, so we don't test math there after primary school like we did in the past. When the grad student has successfully completed the school, he goes to college and on a number of universities this condition of entrance examinations of mathematics fell also, so also in this sense we get rid of any mathematics testing of students. I think at least the only test, that means mandatory graduation, should stay in it. After all, mathematics is a subject that has been devoted to education a lot of time since the first grade and it is stupid to stand at any stage of study of a pupil and student at least elementaryly not to check how the math teachers that the state pays can teach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u43	Thank you, Mr Skopečka. Now, Mrs Valachová's point of fact and then Mr Ferjenčík is still prepared. Please, colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u44	I'll just respond to the previous speaker. As for the analysis of the phenomenon, why we have so-called failed students in mathematics, I would fully agree with that. The memory of the student years, of course, is evoking everyone here in the hall, because that scarecrow of state math or math graduation has been actually haunting for generations. I just want to respond to the remark that we're actually standing here, or the government, we're not able to prepare the launch, and it's been going on for years. It's not exactly like last few years haven't happened. Since 2015, we have massively increased the number of math lessons in all fields. As far as students know what they're graduating from, it's also true since 2016, because they did their first math entrance exams, so they could see how they were doing, and they knew in all the fields when they applied for high school or high school, whether and when they were graduating. I'd say we've only brought the uncertainty into this now, at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Baxa will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Vondrák about what the current situation is and what the future is. So the fact is that this year students still have freedom of choice, next year it's supposed to change, and that's why this proposal is being made. Anyway, a few comments on this subject as a whole. I think that the main problem at all is the perception of graduating and what should be compulsory and what should not be, that is, that the two roles of graduation are combined, that is, a role where a person in some subjects prepares for college in more detail, and the role of what is required to be the minimum that all high school students can handle. I think it's in the field of foreign languages and mathematics that these things are colliding. I graduated both from the Czech Republic and from Great Britain, in both countries I happened to graduate from mathematics and from a foreign language. In Britain, they really went the way of graduating as a college prep, and they don't really have any compulsory graduation classes, only if you want to go to some college, then you need those courses that are needed for that field. That means when he applies to physics, like I did, he has to graduate from mathematics and physics. On the contrary, when they apply for English, of course, English and some foreign language. And it's a question of colleges. The moment when there's a national comparative test, it's 16 years old. They have a GCSE exam where everyone has a compulsory mathematical minimum to master all graduates of secondary schools. I think it's a reasonable journey, just to separate the two parts of the graduation exam. It's a question of what it's going to be called, what it's going to be about, but it's really going to be about getting ready for college and having that minimum standard separately. And it is this minimum standard that requires that the bar is not too high. I think it's important that the graduating students know how to do a three-piece so they can work with percentages. It's basic stuff like that. And in fact, setting tests does not lead to this goal at all at the moment, because as a result of some big test with a number of questions that can be pranked on, it does not lead to teaching logical thinking at all, but that schools are preparing for the test and students who would like to learn mathematics at university must, on the contrary, have to complete a lot of hours when their less talented classmates are preparing for the test, and vice versa, those who are preparing for the test have no room to learn the basic and most important principles of simply how to calculate direct proportionality, how to work with percentages, and instead are crushing test questions. I would like to argue with the claim that a greater emphasis on math graduation will lead to better teaching, thinking and logical thinking in secondary schools. On the contrary, I fear that this will also have a number of negative effects. I think that was a good conclusion to this debate. [[by]] I like the proposal of my colleague Gazdík and the positive response of the Minister. Indeed, trying to separate the two components of graduation, which means preparing for college - I am very glad that this is already happening on Mathematics+ - and the issue of mandatory minimums, which I do not think would necessarily be crucial for those students, whether it would be, let's say, a network for graduating from high school, or just whether we measure the knowledge of individual years in math. I think that would also be very useful to get data at all for how the understanding of mathematics in secondary school graduates evolves. I would ask the Ministry of Education very much to focus on this question and to set a mandatory minimum of what graduates have to know in mathematics and in a foreign language, and that graduation actually serves as a preparation for college. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u47	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Martin Baxa, Mr Juránek will be ready. Excuse me, Mr. Gazdík's point of order. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u48	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I very much appreciate the words of a rare colleague, Mr Ferjenčík, about what mathematics should look like. Just one factual accuracy - Mr President, I want to assure you as a mathematics teacher that a three-member is a sixth or seventh grade primary school substance, and that is not really enough as a knowledge of high school mathematics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u49	Thank you. Now Mr Vondrák's factual remark, then Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u50	Just for a little while. I don't think math is a college ticket. Mathematics is also needed by those who don't have it at all. And I don't think she should be underestimated in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u51	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u52	Thank you for the floor. I dare to respond to both my previous speakers. The problem is that a three-member learns in elementary school, but a lot of successful math graduates don't know how to do it. That's actually the problem, because the tests today allow you to graduate from mathematics without the knowledge of a tri-member. They also allow math to be graduated without knowing the percentage. That's how all the stencil tests work that you can prank on, that you just learn those test tasks and don't have to understand what's behind it, and you can get through it. In fact, it's the basics of primary school that anyone should really be able to do, but really. He should understand, and that is absolutely not happening today. As far as mathematics and university are concerned, as Mr Vondrák spoke, I completely agree that mathematics is useful for everyone, and I also agree that, at some stage of secondary education, all graduates have passed a test that will measure their skills. And we can talk about whether it's a second year or a fourth year, but I think it's very unfortunate to combine graduating and the minimum standard of math skills in high school. I think it's just as unfortunate in the foreign languages, because then, logically, high schools that need math for their students can't even use graduation grades as some kind of coin in entrance exams. I wish a man who would give mathematics 90 percent so that it was clear to him that he could go to technical high school. Similarly, I wish that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u53	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for your point of fact. The three-member gave us three more factual points. The Minister is reporting with the facts as well. You're the fourth. I'm gonna calm down my colleague Baxa because we have the order of actual notes. Lukáš Bartoň, Karel Rais, Ivo Vondrák and Minister Plaga. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u54	Thank you. I would have responded to that British model where there are CGSE tests, de facto it is about verification of mathematics, which is at our primary school level. And one of the arguments that sounds the most, high school students, seniors don't know elementary school mathematics. To Mr Gazdík. I'd like to draw his attention, if he takes a test, a math exam, a spring term, so a three-member is an example of the first or the second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Karel Rais, Ivo Vondrák will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u56	Towards the previous speakers. I think whether she belongs to the sixth grade, or to the second grade high school, those are exactly the problems that should be solved somewhere else, not here in the House. Just out of the way, if I continue with their spirit, I've been trying this weekend, it's a problem for college students. It's just to the edge. Second thing. I fully agree with the British system, and I have no mental problem with that, but I think it is necessary to consider the specifics of our higher education law. I mean autonomy. So it depends on the schools, how they decide on what is called. Tickets to college. It's not entirely clear. So we're just gonna pick out what we like from the British system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivo Vondrák, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u58	Repetition of the mother of wisdom, father unknown, as they say. I say the third time, if the math graduation doesn't work, and she doesn't work, let's just change it so it works, and let's not cancel it. That's the point of what I'm saying here. So we could just adjust our graduation to actually verify the knowledge, not to run the tests. That's what I think needs to be done, and that's why it takes some time to get ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u59	Thank you. Now the de facto remark of the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u60	Thank you for the floor. It's just a clarification. What Karel Rais said is 100% true. I was talking to Mathematics+ about how it would be the way it is now, that is, the second level, because we can't order universities to look at it. But I said, let's find the model where colleges say it's of such great quality that whoever has it so confirms and fits our formula, gets some points from mathematics, and that can and should be motivational for students to make a harder math graduation voluntary, because it will be accompanied by taking exams for example at matphyz, technical universities etc. they get ahead by getting full points. Of course, the system of adaptive tests, which means that it would count partly, that's the music of the future. But this really is a debate on the round table, not at the first reading in the House, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u61	Thank you for keeping the point of fact, Minister. And now, Mr Martin Baxa, Mr Stanislav Juránek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u62	Good afternoon, fellow Members, Minister, I have found statistics at the beginning of my contribution, which tells me how it is actually with the graduation of high school studies in the individual Member States of the European Union, and I must say that I myself was surprised. Just for the record, ladies and gentlemen, although this is difficult to compare, according to the documents I have available, some final exam in higher education, secondary, is introduced in 22 countries of the European Union of 28, of course including the Czech Republic. For the sake of interest, for those countries in which such an examination is introduced, there is a compulsory mathematics graduation in eight countries. Only in a significant smaller part of the countries. Just for the record, it is Estonia, Croatia, Cyprus, Hungary, Poland, Austria, Greece and Slovenia. This is only on the subject where he is required to graduate from mathematics and that this is a topic that we are dealing with in some way here in the context of the Czech Republic, but if I dare say so, this is certainly not the prevailing model in the countries of the European Union. But I would like to respond here to some of the arguments that have been made here, which, in my opinion, illustrate the complexity of the debate on State Mathematics Graduation. I want to start by saying what I said in my pre-Christmas performance. I am in favour of maintaining the choice between mathematics and foreign language during the existence of state graduation in the current form, that is to say, state graduation exams under the law. I don't want to hide behind any arguments that it should be postponed for another year, two to postpone, prepare something, modify something in some way. I am simply convinced that in a situation where, many years ago, this state decided that there would be a state graduation exam for all schools, schools of all types, where graduations are the same, it is even essential, in my view, that the choice between a foreign language and mathematics should be maintained in that category of graduation courses at the state graduation. Attempts to reform state graduation over the past few years, or over the past few years, have been a big deal. I myself taught in high school since 1999, so I experienced a period before the state graduation, after its introduction, I experienced a period when there were two levels of state graduation, I also had a really crappy year, when even in the autumn of that calendar year students did not know what they would be graduating from next year. There have been a number of cocktails and changes, and I am simply convinced that in the current situation of various changes, the change in education is the maintenance of the choice between a foreign language and mathematics is correct. There's a lot of arguments about why it should be like that. For me, the basic one is purely pragmatic and directed towards the pupils of these secondary schools. And I have to say that to some extent I consider it to be insulting arguments that have been made by some colleagues here, who have spoken about first-timers and who are actually trying to suggest that we, who are defending the choice between foreign language and mathematics, are only doing this, and not just to lure lazy high school students into voting for our political parties, and we are changing our views accordingly. [[16.10 hours]] I completely refuse to do that. And I want to say one important thing and turn our attention to the statistics of cerma from last year and last year. It is simply still a relatively small obstacle to state graduation for students at Gymnasiums in their current form. I don't mean to say it's quite easy, but it's a really small obstacle, an easily manageable part of a high school graduation. This is a serious problem for a number of secondary schools, which have degrees, schools of the non-gymnasial type. And I really don't think it's because there's a decrease in demands or that there's a study of stupid students or that there's so much math that they can't do it at all. I'm just convinced that there are students there who have some focus, who have some priorities about choosing educational paths, and that they have some educational orientation that just wants to lead to the fact that they just don't get around at the state graduation. And it doesn't hit them, it doesn't knock them down, it's just a bare fact. For this reason, it actually seems completely incomprehensible to me in this logic or in this concept to introduce compulsory math graduation, and thus the three compulsory graduation courses. I would like to hear from colleagues who stand for the thesis that this really should be done to answer the question of what we will do with those students who simply do not stand up in this system. And no doubt it will. The numbers, the Cermat statistics are relentless in this respect. There is an increasing number of gymnasists who choose optional mathematics degrees, a declining number of pupils from vocational schools. We see - somebody here argued the high failure of the German state graduation. So let's just, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues who have been doing this, let's just answer the question of what will happen in three or four years' time when this system goes off. And I don't want to be ugly, but I'd like all of us who support it here, if any, then stand up to the schools and say: so we're glad that the many dozens of senior students haven't succeeded, because it actually showed that the current education isn't going in the right direction, that the math isn't learning well, that the demands that students need to be lazy and all that. I wouldn't have the courage. Because I know from my teaching practice that there are really different students at these schools, each of them has some skills, abilities for something else, and sending them forward for execution just seems irresponsible and wrong. So this is one of the key arguments, in my opinion, that there should be no system in place at the present time, where all those who study in the field of graduating must pass the same level of state math and foreign language graduations at the same time. Then there are a few arguments that are, I don't mean to say minor, but for the current discussion, let's say more conceptual or more systemic. I'm sure it's good here to hear the calls for a roundtable debate about the future form of the graduation exam, to have fun, what competence, knowledge, skills seniors should have. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it does not belong here on this land. This is not the purpose at this time of discussion when amendments to the school law are addressed here in the House. We're talking about Strategy 2030+, we're talking about the future of education. It is a very important topic, and the debate, as it may know it unambiently, can take several years, what is to be an education from the 1920s, to what we want to go to, how should the study look, how much should the pupils learn, what should be the ratio between learning information and other knowledge. But that just doesn't belong here. What goes here is a decision on how to face up to the impending introduction of the State Mathematics Graduation. And my answer to this challenge is that we should maintain the choice between a foreign language and mathematics, and so if, in some way, there was a course in this House that State Mathematics Graduation should be introduced, then at least approve a longer delay. It's an expression of responsibility to those generations of students who are studying now, and to those who are preparing for those schools. And then let me finally respond to the few arguments that have been raised here about the debate on the state of Czech education. I've been teaching for almost 20 years. I suppose I'll get back to the job again. I deeply disagree with the fact that there has been some long-term reduction in entitlements in our schools. I hear complaints about students coming to college who have less knowledge than they used to. But simply such an argument would apply at a time when mass higher education was not introduced on the basis of the so-called Bologna system. And I have to say that I would like to have those of you who are university professors, or even the rectors of emeritus universities, mentioned that discussions about what contemporary students can or can't do must simply be heard in the context of how many students are studying in universities today. That's just the way it is. I reject the view that there's something worse in high school than it was. She's not just. More students go to high school and more students go to university. And that has to manifest itself in some form. I would also like to say that mathematics, or compulsory mathematics, in my opinion, does not serve as any side instrument to place higher demands on students or to make students more used to learning than in the past. Let me give you an example. I do not want to burden the discussion here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies with specific examples of practice, but during my teaching of recent years of geography I have noted very well that pupils who, of course, have relatively natural tendencies at times to facilitate the evaluation of education were in the end preferred when they wrote the so-called test, which they learned by memorizing some penzum of knowledge, rather than when they received some more demanding independent work that required some independent training. In the second year, I always gave students a job that required them to study and read the documents in English. And many times I've seen the students say, "You better give me a test there, Professor, we'll learn 150 rivers on a blind map mechanically rather than have to deal with the independent work and translate somewhere, write some text, verify it, present it somewhere." So I really don't think that the mandatory math school should be used to making pupils more diligent and used to working more than they were in the past. And as for the election, or as for what Rector Vondrák said here and some others who are heading (?), the need for our economy, that is undoubtedly true. But I'm convinced from my 20-year practice as a gymnasium teacher that those students eventually know very well what they're going to expect at the college they choose, and naturally, if they want to study technical, natural science, medical college, they're graduating from the fields that are related to the study, or they're even doing some extra education or some extra training for the entrance exams, so that they can master the study they've chosen and maybe require knowledge of mathematics. And it's true, ladies and gentlemen, the other way around. Whoever wanted to study social sciences not only had to graduate from some relevant subject, history, social sciences, but also continued to prepare for this study. So I wanted to add so much to the arguments that were raised here. And I would like to conclude by calling for you to think very carefully about your arguments about whether to introduce mandatory math graduation at the moment, what good it is to do, what purpose it is to do. I am convinced that this is not good at the moment. At the same time, I agree that there must be some long-term conceptual discussion about the form of graduation from secondary school and let it be decided on the basis of such consideration, international comparisons and so on, perhaps, that it should be compulsory mathematics graduation. In my opinion, however, this cannot be functional in the current education termination system in the Czech Republic, the structure of disciplines and the various types of schools we have. And I also call for us to really think about what we are exhibiting to our school students, without context, in my opinion a little offensive comments that we who are dealing with this issue would look at them as a first-timer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u63	I thank Mr Martin Bax. Mr Ivo Vondrák's point of fact now, Mr Juránek is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u64	I'll take the liberty of responding to the previous speaker. Mr President, you are concerned about how many of those high school students will be unsuccessful in their four years of mathematics graduation. I want to tell you that today the failure of a bachelor's degree in the Czech Republic is 60 percent! In some faculties of technical 90 percent! Nobody cares! And you know why? Because they get into high school, they get into college, who likes to take them. So I think if we do a little bit of a tighter supervision of who's got the math degree, I think we're gonna cut back on the massity that's pushing into college today, and they're not gonna graduate. That's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u65	I'm gonna calm down Juránek's colleague, because we have four more factual points here. The first factual point is that of Mrs Valachová, then a colleague Bartoň and then a colleague Baxa. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, really, I have to smile because perhaps some positive shift here is over the last four years, because in 2016 the debate here looked like we're going to introduce a math graduation right away, instantly, about the content no one talked about, about what the questions are supposed to look like, if we need something, I suggest you all study who you're going to be interested in, and there was a great success and then the government coalition of ČSSD, the ANO movement and KDU-ČSL had a big problem so-called delaying graduation so that it would be clear - I'm going to high school, I know how, I know what, and then there was a big battle on the government, as I said, with the phone list of tasks for MŠMT, what is to do, what is to do, what is the implementation plan and how it will work. That's how it's moved. So now we're not talking about putting in math tomorrow. We're talking about what graduation is supposed to look like. That's what I think is favorable. The bad news is that we've been having these debates for too long for my taste. For example, as far as graduation is concerned, it is not true that nothing has changed. It was a big topic to be tested so that it wasn't yes-no, one-two-three, a-b-c, but that it's supposed to be an open question, it's supposed to be towards logic etc. But what was the result? Then we were terribly surprised that logical judgment was lacking somewhere, that failure would increase, or that we would learn from the current head of Cermat that students, so-called - I have already spoken about it several times here in plenary - will not be counted. That means they lack reading literacy. So we're in Czech. So we're gonna end up breaking the mother tongue, co-workers?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, with a factual remark, then a factual comment by Mr Baxa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u68	Thank you. I would have responded to Mr Vondrák by your means, Mr President. The Member spoke as the former vice-president of the university, even in past contributions, about leaving the autonomy of the universities they can receive. However, he still calls for another exam at graduation to be introduced, and he who doesn't have a graduation cannot go to college. Well, less people will then apply to college. Thus, the autonomy of universities is limited, whom they can receive, because the law is that a person without a graduation cannot go to college. Unless it's an art major. At the same time to Mrs Valachová. I'm a little confused about the attitude of the CSSD, which here presents for the mandatory exam, to the compulsory math degree. If I take only an expert of the Czech Social Democratic Republic, even a former political deputy at the Ministry of Education for ČSSD, Mr.Petr Pavlík, he states: Minister Chládek promoted compulsory mathematics to the 2020 Strategy as a concession to the Union of Industry and Trade and the Chamber of Commerce. He did so against the resistance of the professional background of ČSSD and against the educational concept of ČSSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment by Martin Baxa, then one more factual comment by my colleague Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I certainly don't want to lead the argument about who's taking what side. It is evident from the debate, and there is no clear view of this in my political side either. But I would like to address you through Mr President, Mr Emeritus Rector and Mr Governor. I have to admit, I really don't understand the type of argument you've made here in your point of fact. If I understand it correctly, you are looking at the introduction of compulsory mathematics as another tool to limit the acquisition of higher education for young people in the Czech Republic. I'm sorry, I really don't understand. If you're referring to the fact that you're going to say that at your college, I assume at the Technical University of Ostrava, there's a 60- or 90-percent failure, then the fact that students who aren't supposed to be there and those who aren't supposed to be there is because they've graduated more and that no one has explained to them that they're not supposed to be at your school. I don't understand. I would also remind you that your region is a region that has taken the legislative initiative on the so-called cut-off score, which I consider - in my view it was the Karlovy Vary Region, I guess, or I don't know. Anyway, you supported it. I deeply disagree. I simply can never agree, as a person who was a long-time teacher, that the education system should have built in some sort of automatic obstacles or gates to be closed to young people on the basis of any assumptions about who should or should not have higher education. I just don't want that kind of education. And I taught this at the grammar school, which is definitely one of the best in the Czech Republic and where we had really chosen students. I would really like to hear the argument that you're saying that graduation should be introduced as an obvious obstacle to studying for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Valachová, then colleague Vondrák, colleague Majerová, all with a factual point. Juránek's colleague is on hold. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u72	I will not comment on what he has quoted here, one of the members of social democracy, a fellow rapporteur, because frankly, unlike his quote, I did not and do not have the habit of solving the problems that I have on my desk, either as a minister or as a Member, referring to the fact that it was my predecessor's fault. This awkward whining, I guess, isn't my style. And about what we're talking about here. We are negotiating, dear colleague, and now I will speak as a lawyer, about the law in force, about the law in force. You'll be surprised, maybe some citizens and citizens still know that we have laws and they are valid, and imagine that they, for example, have thought awkwardly for several years that it really is true that, in 2021, there will be some rules for graduation, and in 2022, too. And when you're here crying about having a few percent of failed math students, it's a shame that you don't appreciate the work of those students who are here, I don't know, 92 or 94 percent who are successful and who, on the contrary, put in their studies that they know what the rules of the graduation exams are, and are preparing in the framework of mathematical literacy for that particular year 2021 and 2022. I beg a minute's silence for them, too. And as far as the triad is concerned, that is, natural science, foreign language and Czech, most countries have this triad. Most countries. And I'm not sure our students who want to be popularly attracted to them will be satisfied that we don't insist on math, and they can choose chemistry or physics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Vondrák's point of order is now being prepared by Mrs Majerová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u74	I will be happy to explain this to you, Mr Member, my colleague through Mr President. You're really crying over the percentage of failed math graduates here, and nobody cares that 60 percent of the bachelor's studies aren't going to succeed, which is a much more expensive study. So that's what I was gonna say. Okay, first of all. Secondly, I argue that failure at university studies is due to the fact that the knowledge of secondary school graduates is becoming lower and lower. And if we reduce further demands on graduation, that's not gonna change. It's just gonna get worse and worse. So I don't think we can improve the quality of higher education, secondary education, basic education by reducing demands. That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Minister, I'm going to put you on the verdict because I have four more right now, you're the fifth. Now, Mrs Majerová, my colleague Bláha, Ferjenčík, Výborný and then Minister Plaga will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u76	Thank you. I would like to respond first to the previous speaker through the President, Mr Mihola. Yes, we've been here for 30 years... those graduations are in some kind of state. But let's just look at how Czech education has fallen over the last 30 years and where it stands in the success and education table. Because 30 years ago, we were on the rungs of the front lines, and now we're really in the second part of the world's table. That's one thing. And the second thing, and I would like to respond to my colleague, Mr Baxa, through the President. Personally, I don't think there's anything at all - and I'm willing to go up in front of that school - that we won't have 80 per cent of college-educated people in our country without real application. On the contrary, I think it's much more important that apprentices and people, pupils who can do something and are able to produce it than to do graduations for everyone here at any cost, and then what has been said here is that 60 percent of students fail in a bachelor's study. I really don't think the prosperity of the country is about having college-educated people. I think the prosperity of the country is about having people who can make a living and who can do something. And this really has nothing to do with education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jiří Bláha, now. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready. Everyone with factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to confirm the words that have been said here, which means our nation is being stupid. And a really stupid geometrical line. And what good are the titles of philosophers who just don't solve anything? We're all philosophers, but when we're going to get to real life, that's the most important thing, that means that we can't do it wrong to calculate purchases - just one and two and three and four - so we just can't do it. And believe me, today we're in a state that people with a college degree aren't able to handle the work of ordinary workers, but I don't mean the manual, but the mind marches. They just can't figure it out, calculate it, shift it in the plane of logical reasoning. That's what we miss hugely, the practice of logical life. We've got everything clearly painted. It's all in our shelves. We know exactly where we're going to buy what, and we're all fooling around. Soon we're going to have to write that the toilet is going to be on the right and then long down the hall and then to the left and we're in the toilet. That's what it looks like today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. A colleague will prepare himself Výborný, also for a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u80	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Vondrák about failure at universities. First of all, I think it is a big mistake that the state is constantly raising minimum qualifications for a number of public administration professions, which has just produced the entire inflation of titles, which has produced a market for private universities in poor levels - of course some are also good, but unfortunately many of these schools have been created because the state has begun to demand higher education in areas where objectively it was not necessary. An extreme example is nurses, where the inflation of education has a major impact on our health care. This is one problem. The second point is that the 60 per cent is, of course, due to the fact that universities are financed by the number of pupils. And we can definitely talk about how to react to this. In any case, the solution through the introduction of compulsory math graduation seems completely dysfunctional to me, because in fact it will only lead to pupils not having such space to prepare for those subjects they are going to study at university, and instead they will crush mathematics. So in all schools with the exception of mathematically and technically focused on the opposite, it gets worse, and on those mathematically and technically focused pupils will focus on a foreign language in high school so that they can apply to the school at all. And their starting positions at college, where they need to have the best knowledge of the subject they're going to study, and not of the general ones, so their chances of getting ready for it are significantly worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u81	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marek the Výborný. Minister Plaga will be ready. Everyone with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been on the show for a long time, but I can see that math is causing enormous emotions. We all went to school. I'd really try to go back to where it is. If anyone here says we're canceling math school, it's not true. We don't lower demands, too, like someone said. It is simply to maintain the current state of affairs, which means the choice between a foreign language and mathematics. And as far as that goes, through the Vice-President, Mr Vondrák, about universities, I repeat again, today, the truth, only in so-called experimental verification, we have an extension exam of Mathematics+. If I'm not mistaken, the law also states that it will switch from experimental verification to a standard optional test. And nothing prevents universities, nothing prevents universities from making it a condition that a student must pass this exam in the course of his graduation exam at some level. It doesn't matter. You can decide that all you want. Of course, all these things can be demanded. And then no one can say that math isn't meant to be. Of course, I also perceive that mathematics is important. Yes, it's the language of science. But the only thing we're debating here today is whether we're ready for this - and we're not even talking about grammar schools or lycees, we're talking about professional schools - whether we're ready to really, with full responsibility, run this system as it is set up in that law today. If we go back to this debate, let us also please end this very quickly and send it to the committee. That's where the debate goes. Then it'll come back here in plenary. Because I've had a few discussions with high school students over the past six months, and everyone's worried about the uncertainty that something's been discussed here. They don't know - is it that way or is it that way? Not to mention the school directors who, of course, are preparing the structure of their graduation exams for the next school year, and they don't know what they're up to and what they're up to. So that's the irresponsible thing, that's the uncertainty that I think is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u83	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for your point of fact. [[I know, I'm done.]] Now the de facto remark of the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. A colleague Martin Baxa, Jiří Mihola, Ivo Vondrák and Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Those are the factual remarks that are in front of us so far. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u84	Thank you. As far as the situation in universities is concerned, I really prefer notic, for I was the deputy for universities, science and research. We worked on this problem by massifying Czech higher education in 2008, 2009, 2010. Since 2015, we haven't funded colleges per capita, which means it's not the hunt for everyone, and college has autonomy and can take. And by 2015, she could say she had to take, because if she didn't, the state would give her less money. Ever since the freeze occurred in 2015, it hasn't been shown that every student they take brings money to them. On the contrary, in the years to come, we have enabled schools to focus more on quality, and social support is maintained with a reasonable drop in students, not saying that they are growing in recent years. So it's college responsibility. But because we are aware - no one is pushing them from the point of view of the state and funding to take as many students as possible today, for the last five years. [[16.40 hours]] As far as failed studies are concerned, for the last two or three years, we have introduced monitoring of the dropout, i.e. failed studies, as one of the criteria for funding universities. That means who doesn't care about the students or underestimate the choice, they have to feel it in finance. So it's there, too. And when I read today that 7.5 percent of the students end up in front of the state's, that's the failure of the school. If it's freshman year at technical schools, that's why we don't put it in the dropout, so if it's freshman year, technical schools have big trash, they have a net freshman year, OK, well, we got rid of it. But if they pour it out just before the end of three years, it's a failure. This is what college was supposed to reveal in its autonomy earlier. We deal with this problem at state level, but we also have to give the university a hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u85	Thank you for keeping the point of fact, Minister. Now, Mr Martin Baxa, with a point of fact. He will prepare himself for a factual remark by Jiří Mihola. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u86	Thank you. I didn't expect my speech to defend the abolition of a compulsory math degree would cause such a flood of reactions. I am happy for her, for the debate, I would certainly also like to have a debate with Mr Emeritus Rector Vondrák on how the education system and secondary education in the Czech Republic should actually look like, because we probably do not understand each other quite significantly. I must once again reject the idea that putting others and other obstacles to the study of high school students should be good for something or to deal with the situation in universities. And I am glad that the Minister here has responded with a series of comments on this subject. But what I wanted to do is to respond, Mr President, through you, to the speech by Mrs Majerová Zahradníková. I've been teaching since 1999, I've been looking at the lady in the 30 years I've been talking about. And, Madame, I must say that what you have said here is not only shameless in my opinion, but above all an insult to Czech teachers over the last 30 years. Madam, saying that there are children today, or that Czech education is much worse than it was 30 years ago, is simply an insult to Czech teachers. Don't be mad at me, but it's just the way it is! [[Inconvenient reactions from some Members.]] He teaches many tens of thousands, 150,000 teachers who do great work. And to say that in the last 30 years, they've done their job so that today education is much worse than it was 30 years ago, I'm personally offended. Or it doesn't offend me personally, I did my teaching job as best I could. But if that's what you're saying, tell all those teachers who have worked in Czech schools for 30 years and are trying to do the job as best they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u87	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jiří Mihola's point of order now. Ivo Vondrák, Kateřina Valachová, Zuzana Majerová will be ready. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u88	Thank you. I, like colleague Baxa, wanted to respond by your way to my colleague Majerová. I also disagree with the thesis she made, or I wouldn't dare say it like that. Because so we don't confuse pears and apples and everything possible and impossible. We've been here all of a sudden with universities, inflation titles. Remember, when we took a master from the Baltics, it was sometime after 2000, that there were 80 percent of those with a bachelor's degree. That was for Topolánek, and then we started catching up. I remember a really stupid master here, and I'm afraid it's gotten so big that I don't think it's normal for a student to do three college classes at once today, go to brigades and all that. Even if they're genius, it probably doesn't concern the majority. But back to math and graduation, let's get this done constructively, colleagues and colleagues. I suppose, as I indicated earlier in the speech, that a compulsory math degree would simply be postponed, that we would now close it in this vote, or gradually in those readings. But I would also like us to focus on what is very important about the content of the subject. I don't know -- there's a working group, I know it's such a scary name, but at the ministry, where everyone in every member's club would be represented to shape something like that? So in two years, in three, in five, there's not an equally endless debate, and actually just complaining that it won't work out in two years, that it won't make it and that ten is too much again. So let's try to be constructive and do something about the content of the subject, let's do something for the math and for all the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u89	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivo Vondrák, Kateřina Valachová will be prepared - with factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u90	Thank you. Three points. It sounds like the state is making up who must have what to do with college. Please, I would like to say that the failure of university studies concerns stone universities as well as those that arose after the 1990s. So it is not a question of any imaginary new positions, although of course I also have my opinion on these obscure different demands. First of all. Secondly, to Mr Výborný through the President. The current state of failure, the current state of decline in international evaluations, is given by what we have here in secondary education. That means the current state of affairs doesn't suit us. It turns out the demands are that everyone does it today. Everyone gets into college. That's right! And I can say it. When I taught 30 years ago, a high school grad student could do more than a doctoral student can do today. And that's been going on a lot of times, a lot of times. [[Let's hear it for some Members.]] I think it's important to say that the current state of affairs no longer suits us. That it needs to be changed. And I would like to say, and this is again with Mr Bax through the President. By increasing demands, we do not put obstacles! That's a big difference! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u91	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. My colleague Zahradníková se -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u92	I want to respond to my colleague Mihola -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u93	Madam, I haven't given you my word yet. After you, colleague Mašek and then Václav Klaus. And I'm going to measure your time to a point of fact. That's my duty. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u94	Thank you, Mr President, I am sorry. I want to respond to my previous speakers and in the spirit that Jiří Mihola mentioned about this, let's do something about it, a working group. So we wouldn't be subject to the fact that our math graduation was invented by some intangible, unnamed industrial lobby. It wasn't that simple. I am not saying that industrial lobbies and industrial enterprises are not at the throat of every minister or minister of education. In the case of, say, strengthening mathematical skills certainly does. However, the fact that they're the ones that would cause us to have the same math exams in that triad, that's not how it was. And I'd just like to quote from the official government document, where it's exactly mentioned and quoted on the roundtable - so you'll have fun, because the debates are still the same - from 2014, it was called the national roundtable, so it had a level. And this is the conclusion to the joint graduation exam with these three subjects: All members agree with the proposed model of the three compulsory examinations. And they stated that there are no fundamental reasons why any of the proposed fields of education should not have compulsory math exams. - That means they were tougher, all math and hello. The members were representatives of the Czech Education Inspectorate, Centre for the Survey of Education Results, Association of Directors of Gymnasiums, School Commission of the Council of the Association of Regions, Faculty of Education, Charles University, Czech Secondary School Union, Association of High School Czech Czech Czech Brethrenists, Unity of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists, Association of Directors of Conservatory, Association of Foreign Language Methodology, Union of School Associations and National Institute for Education. So much for the 2014 conclusion. So I just want to remind you that, besides work, everything's already been discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u95	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Jiří Mašek's factual comment now, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not exactly my area of expertise, but since many speakers have recycled here several times and we are spinning a little bit in the circle, first of all, I would like to stand up for Mrs Majerová, who has made an attempt here to compare on a world or European scale. And either we failed or we didn't fail. If we failed, we may have fallen for it because our teachers are doing just as well as before, but they're doing even better around here. So let's not take political points on this, and let's not stand up for teachers. [[16.50 hours]] But I see another problem there, and it's the problem of who's already getting into high school, who should end up in apprentice education, and it would be good for those people and they would do something with those hands, and now we're missing people, or if every hairdresser or every mechanic has to have a graduation. Let's get back to this, and then we won't have the math problem. Next thing. I'd recommend, if I'm listening to it that way, we don't have a high school dropout institute without graduating. That can happen too. And the man absorbed something, went through all the years of school, passed all the exams. He didn't graduate. It should still be more than just elementary school where we're actually knocking him down because he can't apply that high school. So it's about application. And today, in that high school of technical directions, in chemical directions, in economic directions, everyone gets really untested, without the math exam, and it's for a year, and we all know it costs a lot of money, and those people are falling out. That's the failure Professor Vondrák was talking about. So I really think that there are a number of things that we should think about, and that we should talk about it in context and look at this international comparison. It tells us something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u97	I thank my colleague Mašek for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, a colleague of Mr Baxa and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u98	Hello. I don't want to delay this debate any longer, I didn't want to perform anymore, but I have seen on TV the speeches I want to respond to, Mr. Baxa, through you. Mr. Baxo, I'm sorry, I was listening. You here 25 minutes or how much you speak in the style of snake tranquilizer, which had no content, nor anything else except that you're against math graduation, so well, it's your way of performing, but then you're not ashamed to take advantage of the opportunity and personally attack Mrs Majerová, who didn't say anything you said. It is not Mrs Majerová's fault that we have failed to evaluate TIMSS and PISA in the last 30 years. She didn't say a word about attacking Czech teachers, but Czech teachers have tied hands of politicians, such as yourself. You should be ashamed and you should apologize for your performance!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u99	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Baxa and Mr Ferjenčík - also with factual remarks. Juránek's colleague may see her performance. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u100	Thank you. It wasn't personal. I just want to stress that I have responded to what Mrs Majerová said, who claims that the level of Czech education has failed in the last 30 years. And if, through Mr President, Mr Klaus, you're talking about the PISA tests and the others, let's just say that these are the tests that take place when the pupils are 15 years old. That means they're elementary school graduates. This has nothing to do with what the fellow Member here said, what kind of children are getting into high school or how many are getting into. These are tests that evaluate the knowledge of 15-year-olds in the case of PISA, i.e. to be specific, i.e. elementary school graduates. Then, logically, I have to ask what the sentence means that in 30 years Czech education or education results have deteriorated significantly when we talk about children who are graduates of primary schools. Is it, then, like what, Mrs Majerová through Mr President? So what did you have in mind? What happened in 30 years? Did the kids go crazy? Or has the system changed? I just figured out that if you're assessing this based on the only tests we have, that means tests of 15-year-olds, elementary school graduates, the only thing I've done for myself is that you're not satisfied with the way Czech teachers teach. Period. This is like the whole result of your performance, or the conclusion that I'm making of your performance when you talk about failing education results in the Czech Republic in the last 30 years, you're talking about elementary school graduates, so I can just say to myself, so you're just criticizing Czech teachers. I support Czech teachers because the conditions in Czech schools have changed significantly, as the world has changed around - joint education has entered, access to information has changed fundamentally, we have entered a digital era, and Czech teachers, those over 100 000 teachers who teach, are coping with this, and I thank them for this work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u101	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Now Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark and Mr Juránek's colleague will be able to wait, because I have two more factual points - colleagues Volný and Klaus. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u102	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond very briefly to my colleague Vondrák with the fact that when the population year at university is multiplied by the percentage of the population year of the whole year, that is, when you can study 60 percent of the year instead of 10 percent in the past, so logically the average level has to fall. That is, of course, a fact, but it is a lot more pupils who want the same standard as the best graduates from the past, and that is just a significant difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u103	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Lubomír Volný, my colleague Klaus will prepare himself for a factual comment. And then a colleague Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I originally wanted to take this speech as such defending my colleague Majerová, but I suppose she will defend herself if she needs it. I'll just share my own experience. Personally, I think that even Czech teachers sometimes teach inadequately, sometimes sufficiently, sometimes well, sometimes praisefully and sometimes excellently. Each of us has the right to weaker days and to dark and bright moments. Everyone who taught certainly remembers a time of darkness when he didn't go to school very well and his performance wasn't quite great. However, I first joined school in 2000 and got the key to the cabinet and the table. That was it. After two years of learning in England and three years of learning in New Zealand, I returned to the Czech Republic and got something I did not get in England or New Zealand. I got a personal laptop. And why did I get a personal laptop? Because the volume of bureaucratic work - me as a teacher of physical education and technical education - has increased by about 150 percent. So, no, the blame for the fact that Czech education is really getting worse is not on the shoulders of teachers or primary or secondary schools, but lies in this House. It lies in where education has been decided by our predecessors and some of our decisions over the last 30 years. The last classic demonstration is school inclusion, whose results in all international tests on the House's soil will be very negative, let us be absolutely sure, to appreciate our future colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u105	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, with a factual remark, will prepare Ondřej Benešík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u106	Well, I'm still fresh on Tuesday, so I'm not gonna leave you with the last word, Mr. Baxo, through you. Your two performances were different. You were the one who said that the MP said that we had fallen in 30 years compared to what you meant. That's completely legitimate. No one's taking that away from you if you ask me that. But you didn't do it in the first performance. You attacked her in the first performance that she insulted Czech teachers. And that's why I came to talk about it because it's a personal attack. I understand that you have it in your genes in the ODS leadership, Mr President, when the MP left the club, he also responded with a personal attack, but he's gonna have it when Mayor Novotný is here, only the personal attacks. So while you're at it, stay on the subject and don't attack your colleagues personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u107	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, colleague Ondřej Benešík, will prepare colleague Baxa. Mr. Colleague, not yet. - There. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's been going on a little bit like a seminar, so I'm gonna have a seminary question. It sounds here, virtually. a lot of colleagues discuss and compare the quality of the Czech and possibly. Czechoslovak education 30 years ago. I'm asking, I really don't know, I didn't run into it - are there any relevant data? Was there a relevant international comparison of our education in 1985 with, for example, education in the United States or New Zealand or France? I'm really asking. I think that if such data existed, it probably couldn't have been very accurate in the first place, but I think they don't exist either, so comparing our education 30 years ago to today is probably on the water. We can compare it the way it was 25 years ago, if it's ever been like this before. But I don't think I used to. Even President Zeman himself once acknowledged, or maybe he was convinced, that when he spoke at Letná in 1989 about how our education had fallen in recent times, that we had basically made it worse at the time of normalization, it turned out that he was using a housenumer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u109	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I had the ambition to give the floor to my colleague Juránek, because he was the last one entered into the debate when I joined the meeting, and I failed to do so. Mr Martin Baxa and colleague Rais now have some factual points. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u110	For the last time, for the reason that my colleague Klaus here once again accused me of a personal attack on Mrs Majerová Zahradníková. So I'm just saying again, there was no personal assault on the lady. If I had done something like that in some senseless mess, I would have no doubt acknowledged it, and I would have apologized to the lady. But that was no personal attack. Because I will repeat what the lady said again. She said that in the last 30 years Czech education has failed in its quality. The honourable Member confirms that by noding her head. And I am simply saying that if she claims that, then all I can draw from it is that the Member thinks that it is simply wrong to teach Czech teachers. There's just no other reason. Mr Klaus, the second member of the Tricolore movement, tried to explain her speech by referring to some educational results. So I just watched again, TIMSS educational exams follow pupils in the fourth and eighth grade of primary schools, educational results of PISA 15-year-old children. That means we're talking about education in primary schools. And I am simply convinced that Czech teachers in primary schools, despite all the difficulties, problems, changing situations, as I have already mentioned, are doing a good job. And I stand by it and I will repeat it all the time because I think it is true, and because I am convinced that without the teachers at the first and second levels of primary schools, we could not only have our education system, but we could not even have such a technical discussion that I have here, for example, with my colleague Vondrák, about what high schools look like and what is going on in universities. I am simply convinced that Czech teachers in primary schools, despite all the difficulties, worries and problems they can do. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u111	Thank you, good afternoon. Mr Karel Rais, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Václav Klaus. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u112	Hello. This is where I was asked to say something normal. So, first of all, towards my colleague Benešík. First of all, international PISA tests take place every year. And I said that last time, basically, that's where our students look better than last time, or plus or minus the same. So no dramatic changes are happening, even if the situation - of course, there are often few people and so on. We know all that, and we'll discuss it in a minute. So I appeal again, so let's move it either to committees or to a bottle of red wine tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u113	Thank you. And Mr Klaus, a point of fact. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u114	I have only a short time to get to my colleague Benešík. Of course, the data exists, they're to be found. There are specific ones on the Center for Civil Liberties on the web, where it is a comparison in many years. My colleague Rais is right. We've been stagnating in the last few years. The fall has come since 1994 since the first measurements. Otherwise, two Members - I think pleasantly - are living proof of the need to introduce mathematics at graduation. You, Mr. Benešík, when you argue 30 years ago and say 1985, I would like to insist that 2020 minus 30 is 1990. And my colleague Baxa says that logically there is no other explanation than that Czech teachers teach poorly when we got worse in international comparison. Well, you're deeply mistaken. There may be a lot more reasons. For example, that other countries have improved significantly, or that Czech politicians are throwing sticks under the feet of Czech teachers, and so on, and so on, and so on and so on. The population could have fallen in some way - that's unlikely. But there are thousands of other reasons to explain. But that's what math teaches. So you can't say logically that there's only one explanation. It's a mathematical untruth, and you're living proof that a math degree is needed for people like you to graduate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u115	Mr. Minister, there is a Mr. Benešík registered before you. And then Minister Plaga, factual remarks. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u116	Thank you for your word. So the example that Mr Klaus here has set, I think, is not mathematical. But we were taught at school that there was a difference between math and math. I was perfectly aware that we were comparing something 30 years ago, and 30 years ago it was 1990. I know that very well, of course. But the data had to be collected and compared for some time. That is why I said, for example, in 1985, because I did not think that something had started to be measured worldwide in 1990. So I asked you on purpose about the time before. To make a comparison in 1990. So, as colleague Klaus, he was trying to be funny, but it wasn't very funny, and I think that if he was saying something about us forgiving ourselves personal invectors, I'd like to ask him to do the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u117	Thank you. Minister Plaga with a point of order. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u118	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The task of the Minister of Education is to educate. So the first PISA survey took place in 2000 on reading literacy and mathematical in 2003. That means there were no investigations before. But as far as we're all referring to, the collection started exactly 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u119	Thank you. Mr Blažek, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u120	Hello, thank you for your word. Maybe I have to respond to the flattering claims that 30 years ago, education was somewhere better. So please, maybe in math, which, of course, I can't evaluate. But it can't be true if at the time - not only is mathematics - but at that time, when it comes to history, literature, civic teaching, and many other subjects, there were no books coming out of 80 percent of the trends in those fields. Our authors didn't come out, and they weren't even allowed to study. So any claim that education is going down can't be true from this point of view. Mathematics is not really the only subject, but education in 1990 had little to do with giving real education in the fields and others, and I am thinking especially of humanities. But I personally believe that even in biology and other subjects, we had no idea what was going on in the West, which was clearly before what was happening in the so-called Eastern bloc. So that's what I'm rejecting. I'm not just assessing it from a math point of view. But please, these flat-rate claims are completely misleading and completely untrue, and they irritate me. I am not saying - to say another sentence again - that is, even under communism, it was normally taught, but the provision of knowledge was to an incredibly limited extent compared to some Bavaria. There was free to talk about everything and there was available the most professional literature and of all disciplines. There was almost nothing here. Except Soviet literature. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u121	Thank you. There is no further factual point at the moment. So we come to Mr Juránek, who is enrolled in the general debate, and Mr Jiránek will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u122	Mr President, I am very surprised that I have come to the floor after an hour and a half since I have been logged in. But I don't want to follow up on anything that's been here. I think it's more important to create a certain atmosphere. And I hate that there's such an atmosphere here that you don't like math or base everything on math. But I want to tell you something about my testimony, which is old, and very old, because I graduated 45 years ago. And 53 years ago, I was involved in eight years of grammar school teaching, which was in its wine of mathematics and physics. And I would like to say on this occasion that mathematics is the first opportunity for our education. And please let us say this to each other. It is a clear opportunity that has been tried and has been tried so that even continuity exists all the time. So when I go to the party this year, or I don't know if it's still a party, but when I remember 45 years after graduation at our grammar school in Brno, I'll also remind myself that we've been given an extraordinary opportunity because of this eight-year high school experiment with mathematics and physics. And because I know that there were only three such schools in all of Czechoslovakia at that time, I got something at my age, which didn't happen to many others who are much younger than me. And the Mathematics+ experiment was tried on us before. [[17.10 hours]] That means Mathematics+ is good. But during the times that are here, it is necessary to say that we must take advantage of the continuity and the results of several schools, because even universities know that when someone comes from a certain high school, and I deliberately don't even name my own, they know that students who come from there will be better because they already have it tried. And I dare say that there are gymnasiums here, which actually say in advance, and throughout their entire existence what they exist, prove that this mathematics is our Czech path that can help us improve the level of teaching itself. This isn't about whether graduation is mandatory or optional in the first place. The point is, I learned systemic thinking along with my classmates. It's a huge gift to me. And if it were just me, there are such great teachers in schools and every school who can pass it on to the whole class, but we all got it because... Like, if I actually marry one of my classmates next to another, and now I can talk about those who came four years after me, eight years after me, we didn't get lost in the world that is now. And I beg you, no matter what time it was, what time it was now, this grammar school still, these schools, these grammar schools still bring what math can bring. And now I say, we can base our education on anything else. They based it on philosophy in Greece, didn't they? So we can say-- and I'm going to ask you now-- can we just say that we're going to replace math with philosophy? I'll answer that, not with us. We found the way to think about it, because this isn't about how much math knowledge I'm gonna have. This is about me learning to think like that in every subject so I can translate it into my life. And I remember when they were doing the experiment with us back then, because we were called an experiment and we started as an experimental school, they were actually making the system approach accessible to us through all the objects. I remember very vividly how the teacher didn't come to tell us about the monsoons in geography. He asked us, and said: Come now to think together, let's think about how monsoon rains are actually created. And we made everything up until we realized there was a difference in temperature over the water surface and above the ground. But we've come to it! And because this is how they treated us in all subjects, this experiment has been very successful. But I'm telling you about it now, because it still works, that it needs to be the current Mathematics+ now, and that we have to look for exactly what will help us to be ourselves in education. To use what we have in our heads. Don't let us put something else in there instead. And math isn't just something to learn. Math is a way of thinking. And I dare say, based on the experiment that happened to me, it's a way of thinking that's close to us. I am convinced that when we get some pluses in education, when we get it at all levels, we get it because there are still teachers, there are still teachers, that there are still schools, and now I'm going to tell universities that these people can take advantage of that we still have a very high level in the world. After all, he's been experimenting with that math since first grade. Most of you can't remember. But then it was said, so let's try the set system. We'll try to teach the sets. And within those sets, we'll teach them to think better. Because it wasn't quite ready, so it didn't work out and it was very hard, it was a big hit. But it was an attempt again to use math to shift education as such. I don't want to talk about math graduation here. And I'm gonna say it like a bush again. Nothing can fall from the sky. I can't decide from one day to the next that math graduation will or won't. And now it's a matter of consideration, and there I would see it really as a consideration at the expert level, or at least in the committee, to actually consider what we're in, because we're definitely not in a zero state. And I'm used to waiting a long time as a woodsman. We have crusts here at the moment, and I'm telling you as a woodsman, well, for me, it's the only one. Me, because it's always considered in forestry for at least ten years, so I'm telling you, we've got it figured out. Now it's ten years to bet. And we know that. And we know how to bet, and if you let the foresters do it and you help them and you all bet, then we'll see a result. But by those trees, it's been tens of years. But with those students, it's not from year to year. So now we have to say more about graduation, and I'm in favour of a mandatory math degree as a way to get into education, so it's very important that we tell each other what condition we're in, and how much preparation we need to get those pupils to grow up. Now I'm saying this like the parable of the woods we're going to plant. So I have no doubt that we're going to bet math and that we should bet it, but I'd like to create a positive atmosphere. And I'm going back to that again. The most important thing isn't when math school is mandatory. The important thing is if we accept this way. And I have, please, had the opportunity in the South Moravian Region to devote six years to education. It's not enough, believe me. I also have the advantage of being from a large region and being able to work on the board of directors of both Masaryk University and Mendel University, which is my alma mater. And so I had the opportunity to judge a number of things and to move some things within the South Moravian region. I assure you that we must find some unitary element within the Czech Republic that goes beyond those regions. And I have not yet met anyone but the fact that we will try to take advantage of how math can help us to think overall and the overall level of our procedures. Please take this as an offer for discussion, because I think that professional things must be taken, as one of my previous speakers said, and discuss not only on the committee, but also with the experts who do it. But there is one thing that has to be decided which way we will go as the Czech Republic. And so I intercede for us to seek how to use this mathematics, and not to take math as a condition of existence, but also as an enemy. To try to use everything that math, the way of thinking, to stress it one more time, can help us. Believe me, there are a large number of people on whom an experiment of mathematics has already been tested, and he has been successful at those who are currently professors of history. And I'd be very happy if this little sample of people who are wearing it for life will also talk about how to go about it. Thank you for listening to me, at least some of you, and please - I will say the sentence I started with - please, let's take math as an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u123	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Holík will respond to a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u124	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, allow me to follow up on my colleague, Mr Juránek. I graduated 43 years ago, and we had a professor named Reman in high school who didn't understand math. He lectured us the substance of his notes and most of the class simply hated mathematics and did not understand it. Then it came to pass that at the time we were taken over by some professor Machalíček, who was a real cantor. He dragged us into the study. He just managed to show the math that it's not just simple bifling, it's science. I want to say one thing, if we want to have good students, we have to have very good cantors that can explain the substance. I would like to wish Minister Plag a happy hand in his selection of teachers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u125	Thank you. It is now Mr Martin Jiránek's turn in the general debate, so far the last one entered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u126	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. The discussion has been very interesting all along. I must say that Mr Juránek's contribution and the following Mr Holík's contribution actually calmed the debate very much and moved it in a very constructive direction, I think. I'd also like to remember a little bit when the two of them were already in front of me, but it's gonna be very quick. [[An unintelligible protest from the O.R.]] Oh, come on. Jesus, I hope not. [[He's laughing.]] Well, I'm not gonna remember you guys being pissed off here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u127	Calm down, please. I ask that we all maintain some dignified action so that we can proceed in the debate as we are. Mr. Ambassador, you're done with your performance? [[Yes.]] Yes. The rapporteur, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, is now in the debate. We're still in the debate, it's not the final words yet. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u128	Thank you. Not only the rapporteur, but also the promoter of the second House press. As the debate is coming to an end, I would say that the veto was actually heard here in the discussion of the government proposal in Section 19, i.e. in an accelerated reading, which was heard by SPD and KSČM, veto at the 90th. [[90]] Until the end of the general debate, this veto can be withdrawn, I do not want to appeal, but there is also a second parliamentary proposal. In fact, these two proposals are similar. The MP is also different from the fact that he is dealing with the institute of graduation without graduation, as Mr Mašek mentioned. From the debate, I'd like to sum up the views that were going on here. I think a lot of the gymnasial type's eyes were ringing. When I take the results of math or foreign languages, there's no such problem at grammar school. If I just take pure math, it's four or two percent of the graduates who can't handle it. The problem is with secondary vocational schools. I can say from the figures when I start with, for example, an superstructure study, 50 per cent of the unsuccessful ones who have chosen voluntarily, 60 per cent of the previous year, a secondary vocational education with graduation and 38 per cent of the failed ones, a year before that, 50 per cent of the failed secondary vocational education with graduation, that is, the largest meat of secondary vocational schools, 23 per cent of the unsuccessful ones, the year before that 33 per cent of the unsuccessful ones, that is, those who chose mathematics voluntarily as their senior course. With a foreign language, it's a percentage smaller. It's about 5%, if we count English. There's some 40 percent in German, but I think that's another question. So the problem is with secondary vocational schools, the problem is that we have a graduation in the same part for both secondary and secondary schools, and the set exam is for those more suitable for grammar schools. Graduates of secondary vocational schools are disadvantaged from grammar schools because they are more focused on their field of study, which is logical, but tests at the end must do the same. Of course, this raises the question of whether to even have a graduation in this form for the future. Under the auspices of the Education Committee, I held a seminar here on the future of seniors, where this was mentioned a great deal. There was also a representative of the Slovak Ministry of Education, when Slovakia issued a French model, i.e. separated high school graduation and high school graduation, separated claims on them. He also mentioned at this seminar a certain opinion of the Education Platform by Professor Drahoš, Chairman of the Senate's Education Committee, who mentioned more of the Anglo-Saxon model, which means moving the mandatory border, which must be skipped, more into the study. It's the GCSE tests, which would ensure that the minimum that each student has to perform would have more time and it wouldn't be just a final exam when a student who doesn't pass the test completely at the end of the test is actually failing and ending with a basic education. Personally, I prefer the English model, although the French model would also be the solution. But here again, the question arises - I think no one is satisfied with the current model, everyone here feels that something should change. It's not just that we're going to say another exam, mandatory for graduation, but in the whole model of how high school is set up and how testing is at the very end, something should change. We don't really agree on what exactly, but we feel like there's something there. And that's what the debate should be about. Throw the brake now on the fact that we're introducing another mandatory subject, and more to look at what the demand of the state is, what the graduation is to verify. We don't know that yet. There's no such demand. So far, we don't know if when state graduations were introduced, there isn't a single analysis of whether these state graduations, the introductions, the benefits, what they are to us, if we've achieved anything better by having state graduations. We know we've spent over a billion on them, that we have them, but we don't know if they're any use to us, if they're any good. These and others are issues that need to be addressed, but they need to be dealt with in the future. Surely it would not be good to make rash decisions and deal with them now. Now I suggest we back off, not introduce a mandatory exam of foreign language and mathematics. In general, I also see that there is often talk of a compulsory math exam, but they ignore that it also introduces a compulsory foreign language exam. And especially for those who fight for technical education, this will have a negative impact on technical universities at all. In particular, the technical colleges, there the composition of the students - I myself taught at the Technical Faculty - are so comparable that there is one huge group of gymnastics and one huge group of graduates of the secondary vocational school, especially that of the secondary vocational school, which has already chosen the type of study at her high school. They're students interested in the field. [[17.30 hours]] We're going to limit this group of high school graduates a lot. Because not only, and now I'm going to say 33 percent, 23 percent of the failed maths, but they're also students who are technically gifted, have no problem with math, but we're not going to let them in because they might not have done an exam from a foreign language. We're introducing a mandatory rehearsal from a foreign language. We have been implementing this since 2021 for secondary vocational schools. In 2021, even high school students from secondary vocational schools cannot choose between a foreign language and mathematics. They will have a compulsory foreign language and in 2022 they will have a compulsory foreign language and mathematics. We don't give them the option at all, while the gymnastics will have both in 2021. So my proposal - let's do second reading, or if one of them doesn't pass, like the MP, I'm sure I'll be in favour of it and fight for the government to pass, and of course, if the high school dropout institute without graduation falls under the table, I'll be happy to supplement it at second reading if it's a match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u129	Yes, thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Karel Rais. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u130	Thank you. I'm just gonna repeat what I said at my first speech that I'd ask for a short press hearing of 645, that's the 30-day government law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u131	Yes, I'm marked. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, with a point of fact, is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u132	I also wanted to recall my proposal to reject the press 506, the school law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u133	Yes. That is already noted here, unlike Mr Rais's proposal. Thank you. We'll deal with all this vote. I do not see any further application for a merged debate. Anyone else reporting? He's not reporting. I'm done with the conversation. Is there interest in final words? The Minister is not interested. The rapporteur is interested in this point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u134	I would just repeat from the position of rapporteur: The proposal for the veto of Section 90 of the House press 645 by SPD and KSČM, so that is the case. This House press did not have a motion to reject it, but a proposal to shorten the hearing from Mr Rais to 30 days. A motion for rejection from Mrs Hyťhová and from Mr Staněk fell on Parliament's draft law 506. There was no proposal to extend the hearing or shorten it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-28-ps2017-040-05-001-999.u135	Thank you. I then ask the individual press, when we deal with them, to make sure that we vote for everything. Is there an interest in the final word on the second point of Mr Pojezný? It's not. [[End of the merged debate.]] Now I'm reopening the point, and I have to read the full title. It's about
