ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-009-043.u1	43. Proposal of Members of Jiří Mašek, Jan Hamáček, Pavel Žáček, Zdeněk Ondráček, Jiří Kobza, Lukáš Kolářík, Jan Bartošek, František Vácha and others for the issue of the Act on Arms Management in some cases affecting internal order or security of the Czech Republic /house print 669/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 669/1. I prosit that Mr Jiří Mašek present the proposal for the appellants. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-009-043.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a presentation by the press of 669. Proposal for a law on the handling of weapons in some cases affecting internal order or security of the Czech Republic. The content of the law is a ban on armed groups which are also of the nature of paramilitary armed forces, are intended for the armed pursuit of objectives based on political, religious or other ideologies and deal with arms, seek access to arms or organise persons handling weapons. Furthermore, the provisions of the law include the establishment of a system of rifle preparation designed to increase the skills of legal firearms holders in the handling of weapons. The shooting courses will be able to be organised by both the public authority and the private body, the holder of the arms licence under the Arms Act, which obtains accreditation for a specific course. Participation in such shooting courses will always be voluntary. Furthermore, it is the law to set explicit rules under which members of the armed security forces may carry a service weapon at a time off or at a time off to use a private weapon as a service weapon. Furthermore, the provision of the possibility for the Government to adopt a regulation at the time of the announcement of the crisis, which will regulate the handling of arms beyond the provisions of the Act on Weapons and this Act. The Czech Republic is currently one of the safest places to live in the world. Homeland Security is mainly taken care of by the Police of the Czech Republic and external security is taken care of by the Army of the Czech Republic. However, we cannot rule out the emergence of an emergency situation where more will be needed to help us citizens. Legally, such assistance shall be treated, for example, with the provisions of Article 3 (1) (a), (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2 Act 110/1998 Coll., which is the constitutional law on security, or paragraph 18 of Act 273/2008 Coll., the law on the Police of the Czech Republic, when a citizen can be invited to participate himself and help his country with the solution of the situation. However, following the abolition of the military service, we are in a situation where, while we have the possibility of challenging a citizen in the law, he no longer has the necessary capacity to help his country effectively. In the Czech Republic, we have more than 300,000 holders of arms certificates and all of them have successfully passed a proficiency test. However, this test is not a test of the weapon's ability to use in a crisis situation. On the basis of the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic in the context of the comprehensive recodification of arms possession by civilian persons, proposals for a new Act on Weapons, the Act on ammunition and the Amendment Act are being processed by professional structures of the Ministry of the Interior. A group of Members across the political spectrum has prepared a draft law on the handling of arms in some cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic. The material has been processed in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior in order to train in the Czech Republic a reservation on the voluntary basis of persons from a circle of arms licence holders, i.e. persons who are blameless and reliable, which will create a specified advance of the state. Such persons may be requested by the State for assistance in an emergency. The above laws are now under discussion in the Legislative Council of the Government, in the Chamber of Deputies we will discuss the press 92, implementing amendment to Act 119/2002 Coll. A group of Members from all parliamentary parties assessed the adoption of the above-mentioned law as a priority and in the interests of the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. She revised the original proposal of the Ministry of Interior to correspond to the legislation currently in force, namely Act 119/2002 Coll., the Firearms and Firearms Act, and presents it to the Chamber of Deputies now. The adoption of the law creates the necessary framework, which lays down the basic rules for the functioning of the voluntary training system of citizens, and then, by their own fulfilment, the petitioners leave the form of authorisation to a government regulation specifying the detailed functioning of the system, such as the exact conditions of shooting training, the scope of the course, the conditions of accreditation, etc. [[14.40 hours]] After the presentation of the press 669 his most discussed paragraph became Section 3 presented as a ban on militias. We have paid considerable attention to the text of this paragraph when preparing the proposal, and we are sure that its wording, as proposed, is correct. In the definition, we have chosen a negative definition of law, which is usually in relation to a citizen. A citizen can do anything the law doesn't forbid him. This principle is also based on the wording of the proposed paragraph 3, when a citizen is banned from certain activities, here only after all three conditions of the said word, given by law, are cumulatively fulfilled. The importance of the text of the paragraph is seen above all in its preventive action and as a warning against possible abuse of acquired skills in the field of shooting preparation. Print 92, which we will discuss, is an implementing amendment to Act 119/2002 Coll., Act on Weapons and Missiles. Unfortunately, this press will not bring more security for our country. We put forward press 669, this deficit according to our conviction as submitters more than equals. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the petitioners, to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-009-043.u3	There. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-009-043.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. If you have heard the word of the petitioner or the representative of the petitioner, and also the colleague mentioned the following press under paragraph 44, the House press 99, then I would like to request the merger of the debate with these two press - press 669 and press 92, which are points 43 and 44 according to your agenda, because these points are very closely related. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at 17 o'clock, there are fixed points, so it would be good if we wanted to release this law further, or to release these two House prints into committee meetings, so that we would end these prints by 17 o'clock, because then we would interrupt it ourselves and we would have to look for another term. So I propose a joint debate on House Press 92, which is not yet open, the Minister is here and has been informed, and the House Press number 669, which you have just heard from the representatives of the petitioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-009-043.u5	We've got a procedural proposal here, so I'm gonna go for it. [[He's waiting a while.]] Checkout request. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. So we have here the procedural proposal of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to bring together the debate on press 669 and 92. I can see through the door that someone else is coming. Well, I think we're in enough quantity here. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 162, registered by 123 Members, for 123, against none. The motion was accepted. So I am now asking the rapporteur to take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Černochová to press 669, okay? Well, to print 669, then we'll cut it off, and then the press will be 92, and then we'll open the merged debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-009-043.u6	Yes. First, as rapporteur, I will speak with my speech so that it is clear what is in this standard, even though it has already been very well indicated by the representatives of the appellants. For me - because otherwise I would also like to sign up for this proposal, but for anyone to be a rapporteur, even though I agree with him, I cannot be signed under it. This is therefore a proposal from a group of Members across the political spectrum. As the draftsman's representatives have rightly said here, the main points of the bill are to ensure the creation and existence of a system of shooting preparation for the needs of the population preparation system to defend the state, to manage emergency situations or to increase capabilities and skills for the purpose of responding to other risk situations, to introduce a system of shooting preparation for internal order and security of the Czech Republic - where it would be organized by the Ministry of Interior in the field of defence and, of course, for the area of defence, it would be organized by the Ministry of Defence. Furthermore, this standard aims to declare that the person participating in the shooting preparation programme and the firearm with which it is handled in the shooting preparation system are a specified reserve of the state for carrying out tasks in ensuring internal order or security of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, ensure the security of the information system registering persons and weapons in the shooting preparation system. And last but not least, the opportunity to dispose of service weapons to members of the Security Corps and to officers of the municipal police, even outside their service or outside their working hours, which we consider to be a very important change. At its meeting on 6 January 2020, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, discussed and assessed the draft arms management law in some cases affecting internal order or security of the Czech Republic and adopted a favourable opinion on this draft law, while recommending some partial amendments. I assume that the petitioners will deal satisfactorily with all the comments made by the government in its consent in the process of examining the draft law. This will also happen, of course, on committees. I assume the Security Committee will be here by guarantee committee. And when we actually discussed the standard, or wanted to discuss it right in January, we were thinking about some possibility of shortening the deadline, but given the timetable, as it is now set, it wouldn't actually solve anything for us, so we're not going to propose shortening the deadline and so the deadline will remain legal. That's all from me as rapporteur at the moment. I am still logged in with my contribution to give you the opinion of the ODS MEP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-009-043.u7	There. I'll read one apology. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes today within 19 hours for work reasons. So now I'm going to interrupt printing 669 and now I'm going to open printing 92. This is about
