ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-06-ps2017-041-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. Initiating 4th meeting day 41th meeting, welcome to all of you. I just checked you out, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or tell me who votes with the spare card. I'm voting with replacement card number 17. I'm reporting myself. I declare that the reasons for not taking part in the proceedings were requested by the following Members: Ivan Adamec - working Nevludová, Dana Balcarová within 12 hours - Zuzana Majerová, Jiří Běhounek within 12 Zahradníková - working reasons, Josef Oborná - Roman Vlastimil, Žáček Bělobrádek - Nacher Volný, Jan Lipavský - Vojtěch Luzar, Pikal Blaha Gajdůšková personal Adamová, Jana Černochová - foreign travel, František Elfmark - family reasons, Dominik Feri within 12 hours - Petr Vrána, Jaroslav Foldyna - Krejza grounds, Pavel Kováčíková - Ladislav Plzák, Lenka Kozlová - personal reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček - medical reasons, Jana Krutáková - working grounds, Jana MračkováVildumetzová - Vondrák Hanzel - health Markéta, Monika Kolářík - health Patrik, Czech Republic - health reasons. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Jan Hamáček - health reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - foreign travel. With the replacement card number 6, Mr Michálek votes. That's all from an apology for the moment. We should start today's meeting by discussing paragraph 175, which is the House Press 501 - amendment to the property valuation law, third reading. Then we would discuss other points according to the approved agenda - laws in second and first reading. I'm asking if there's anyone who's interested in speaking on the agenda. [[There's noise in the room. The President is ringing the bell.]] I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room so you can take your seats. My colleagues and colleagues are signaling me that they can't hear very well. With the replacement card number 16, Mrs Valachová votes. I take it no one's applying to the agenda. So we'll continue with the approved program. Opening point
