ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u1	4. Information about the Prime Minister's position on the Europe Recovery Plan Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Czech Andrea, I will ask that Mr Ondřej Benešík, who will be rapporteur as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, remain at the rapporteur's table. Okay. [[I'm the plaintiff.]] I would immediately make you the rapporteur according to the custom of this House. Okay, it's a committee deal. But I still can't give the Prime Minister the floor for a lot of noise. I will ask my colleagues to transfer the discussions to the lobby. I hope I don't have to name anyone. Maybe things have calmed down. So I ask that the Prime Minister's information on the position of government on the Plan to Support the Resurrection of Europe be presented by the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I would ask my colleagues not to hold up the Prime Minister because I called on him to make the opening statement. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u2	Hello, everyone. I'm happy to get off here. My colleagues told me to come by at 9:00 a.m. and that I'd have that point. And I had no idea that I would attend the biggest epidemiological conference in our country's history, which lasted 6.5 hours. Every epidemiologist here is unbelievable. And I think our chief hygienist, she's not here anymore, she's regional, she's got a lifelong experience, really. [[Let's hear it.]] Because I admire my colleagues that they can do that, they know everything, but they do. So I had to reschedule a meeting with the Swedish Ambassador, the Bulgarian Foreign Minister, and Angela Merkelová, who I was supposed to talk to at 17.15, so I postponed her. Well, what can I do? As one former minister says - where is he? He's gone. - Parliament is a principle, and I, of course, sat here obediently all day, wondering what we were doing wrong. And I think the Minister of Health has made it clear who has competence. But I'm done talking about the virus. I'm gonna say it all Sunday night at Hey, guys. Well, I hope you're watching this. [[He's laughing. Fun in the hall.]] That's what I'm gonna talk about on Sunday night. No more questions from Václav Moravka, but čau, guys, that's what we're talking about, especially on Sundays. All Twitter and all my haters. And I like it. So... I'll get started. [[18.00 hours]] Mr President, I have actually said this, so honourable Members, the plan to support the recovery of the economy is now the most important European issue for me. I am really glad that he is also devoted to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies today. The Commission presented its legislative proposal at the end of May. Next week, for the first time after four months, the European Council will meet physically and we will try to find a compromise acceptable to all. Angela Merkelová, who handed over the Presidency to the EU Council a week ago, is a very determined EU budget and a recovery plan approved this summer. I'll work hard to make it work, too, but it won't be easy. The positions of the Member States are very different. The largest newly proposed tool for reconstruction must be fair and beneficial for all, as well as for the Czech Republic. We'll have to insist on that. It is a subject that concerns not only all of us regardless of political inclusion, but also our children and grandchildren. There is no money in the European budget other than that of the Member States. While we often hear that the European Commission wants to give large sums to the recovery of the economy, it will always be the Member States' contributions, or the debt that the European Commission will borrow on our behalf on the market, and the Member States will have to pay it back in the future. So the name Next Generation EU, I don't know if it's OK. Let us say openly that the recovery plan will be financed from the borrowed money that the EU budget will repay 30 years after 2028. We will discuss two pillars next week at the European Council. On an updated proposal for the multiannual financial framework for 2021 to 2027 of at least EUR 1,100 billion and an entirely new EU instrument to support the recovery of EUR 750 billion. The European Commission calls it the New Generation EU. Detailed documents at the European Council meeting next week are not yet available and we are still waiting for the modified negobox of the President of the European Council, Charles Michel. The entire package, as proposed by the Commission, was approved by the Government on 29 June by two framework positions. One solves the expense side and the other solves how it will be financed. Let me introduce you to the priorities of the government for the forthcoming negotiations. I can say in advance that I have a number of problems with the proposal, and I will explain why. I will begin by pointing out in front of the parentheses that it would be logical for me first to draw up a classic multiannual financial framework, and only then, for example next year or later, to address the recovery of the economy once we know the real depth of the impact of the virus on our economies and the real decline in GDP. And that won't be until the end of the first quarter of 2021. But I have already understood that other countries want to do this differently, they want to discuss everything in the package and as soon as possible, and I am trying to be constructive. It seems to me that there is also agreement on the debt of future EU budgets. I'm not saying I agree, but I don't want to be a trouble maker at all. So it's not my first choice, but I don't want to stop it if everyone wants it. However, we should limit ourselves to what is absolutely necessary, effective and temporary. Goal of the plan. We all agree that we must respond together to the crisis. In the package presented, the Commission proposes to use a total of 1,850 billion. EUR between 2020 and 2027. This is much more than the volume of the EU's multiannual budgets so far, almost twice as much. The recovery plan is intended to strengthen the expenditure of the EU budget between 2021 and 2024, both by increasing funds for existing programmes and by creating brand new instruments. We have the following instruments: the temporary strengthening of cohesion programmes, the so-called REACT-EU, the Fair Transformation Fund - the Just Transition Fund and the instrument itself for recovery and resilience, as well as the strengthening of the common agricultural policy and rural development. The structure of the expenditure party is very complex and the conditions for drawing and the length of drawing are different in each instrument, as are the allocation keys. And I think it's useless. So it's all very complicated. Indeed, it took more time for us to take all this up and understand why this is being proposed. However, I see the fundamental problem in the fact that the Commission's proposal focuses not only on restoring the EU economy after the coronavirus crisis, but also largely on building so-called resilience, reliance. Of course, we would all like the EU to be strong in the long term. However, we need to be clear about exactly what we want to achieve in this regard. What the situation in the countries concerned should look like after the intended massive financial injection. Resistance should not mean a blank check for excessive spending. I insist that we must continue to develop, in particular, the key EU policies resulting from the treaties, in particular the strengthening of the internal market through the promotion of economic convergence. It is the key to our common strength, growth and prosperity. Only with a functioning internal market will the Czech Republic prosper as a pro-export economy. Investments are crucial in this respect in particular. In addition to the Green Agreement for Europe and digitalisation, building the missing transport and energy infrastructure and industry should also be a key priority. It is absolutely essential for the EU to become independent and independent of the rest of the world in all areas. Pharmaceutical, energy and food. Energy self-sufficiency is particularly important for us precisely because of the high share of industry. If we are to achieve a carbon-free economy by 2050, as we committed in December 2019, this will not be possible without increasing the share of nuclear energy in our energy mix. I have fought for this many hours at the December European Council and finally managed to push for it to be explicitly confirmed by the Council's conclusion. We are working hard to make progress in Dukovan's completion, and this government has so far done the most work in this regard in decades. I dare say that the European Commission is also in favour of this trend, and I believe that the approval procedure of our project will go relatively smoothly on their side. The increase in the core share is entirely in line with their green goals. The core is a clean, 100% carbon-free source. The main promoter of the Green Agreement, both Frans Zimmermans and the European Parliament, is openly discussing this. For example, yesterday, the Commission adopted a hydrogen strategy where nuclear energy is explicitly envisaged in hydrogen production. We will have a problem bilaterally with some Member States and their NGOs, which are fighting against the core. For this, we must be prepared and go through all the proceedings with respect to all the rules so that the Commission's final decision is not easy to challenge at the EU Court of Justice. Now the tool for restoration and resistance. The largest part of the new funds is to be concentrated in a new programme called Recovery Fund. 560 billion is proposed for the whole EU. EUR, for the Czech Republic this would specifically mean up to 125 billion. on grants and 286 billion. crowns on loans. The instrument is intended to support the most affected sectors of our economies in the form of financial support for reforms and investments. However, we do not yet know exactly what the impact of the crisis will be on our GDP and other economic indicators. We simply do not have these figures yet, and it is therefore early for a definitive decision on the final form of the recovery plan. But what I do know for sure is that the calculation of individual states' share of the instrument according to data on unemployment rates over the past five years certainly has nothing to do with the actual impact of the coronavirus crisis and is completely wrong. In this respect, I repeat that it would be much more practical to discuss now only the multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan only after we have a final account for coronavirus at least this year. [[18.10 hours]] The Commission's analysis accompanying its proposals states that the tourism sector or the automotive industry are seriously affected by the crisis. I do not fully understand, therefore, how the allocation of two thirds of the entire three-quarter-billion instrument for reconstruction and structural reforms in the Member States can help these sectors recover on the basis of their unemployment rate five years ago. So once again - the criterion for recovery is average unemployment from 2015 to 2019, i.e. At a time when no one ever knew a virus was coming. So it's absurd, and it's the main problem I have with it. The solution could be a dynamic allocation key, which is now considering Charles Michel for the expected negobox. Staging would help us to see the real effects of the crisis in time and allow us to adjust the money flow accordingly. When it comes to the balance between grants and loans, I prefer grants. The reason for this is that the EU budget is, by its nature, structured as a grant-oriented and loans do not have a clear position in it. And I've always criticized it in the last InvestEU budget, that's a loan, that has nothing to look for, because normally the budget is clearly spending, irreversibly spending. However, I understand that some Member States will also want to borrow from a new instrument, and we should allow them to do so. In this, I am once again willing to compromise despite the fact that loans in the EU budget have nothing to do with it. Allocation criteria. As I have already said, the way in which new resources are allocated in the proposal concerns me the most. The Commission's proposal is based on population, inverse GDP per capita and average unemployment over the last five years compared to the EU average. This fundamentally puts countries like the Czech Republic at a disadvantage, which had a low unemployment rate before the crisis, and the Czech Republic had it the lowest before the crisis, and even has it the lowest today, according to Eurostat's latest figures, and I am convinced that we will still be the lowest after the virus. In particular, however, for the Czech Republic, the decline in allocation is only due to the criterion of old unemployment of almost 60 percent, which represents more than 6 billion. EUR. So because of the unemployment criterion in the last five years, because we were the best, they took away 6 billion. EUR. That's a suggestion. This is even more than our current total allocation from the recovery and resilience tool, which corresponds to 4.6 billion. EUR. And I fundamentally disagree with that, and I will promote that the allocation of resources reflects the economic impact of the crisis, for example. GDP decline. I don't think the unemployment criterion has anything to do with the proposal. For example, it is considered. the distribution of the package, where part of the funds would be allocated only in the following years according to the actual effects of the crisis, and this is the already mentioned dynamic allocation. According to the Commission's latest predictions, for example. shows that the fall in GDP for the Czech Republic will be more dramatic than the Commission thought in May. At that time, it estimated a decline of 6.2 %, the estimate of this week goes up to 7.8 percent for this year. The OECD also predicts a steep drop. The criteria for dividing the money from the recovery instrument should also be fair for countries with lower incomes, as economic maturity increases the ability of Member States to finance recovery. The unemployment rate should not be a decisive indicator in the years before 2020. I believe that we should pay more attention to the economic prosperity measured by gross national income. What are they telling us? If you get high unemployment, you get more money. I really think that's out of the ordinary. And the successful are to be penalized. Implementation. The instrument should also be more flexible and its use should be adapted to the specific needs of the country. The role of the Commission in assessing the criteria should be closely monitored and well balanced with the role of the Council. I do not agree with the significant strengthening of the Commission's powers, which should approve the Member States' reform intentions. Furthermore, the operation of the instrument is needed. Investments and reforms need to be properly prepared. It is therefore our aim that the funds can be used for a longer period than the proposed four years. I don't understand why it's changing again, it's been seven years, and it should be the whole period. The key is... Well, maybe I can think of the shorter some of them, the less they can draw. It is crucial that the individual needs of the Member States are taken into account in determining the focus of investment, thus allowing them to influence as far as possible the direction of the funds. For me, it will be important that we invest in the missing infrastructure according to the National Investment Plan. A multiannual financial framework. As for the second part of the package, the multiannual financial framework itself for the next seven years, I still see some scope for adjustment in individual chapters, namely by strengthening traditional policies. As part of the negotiations on the multi-annual financial framework, this remains a key priority for us to increase funds for traditional policies compared to the Commission's proposal and prevent a significant fall in the cohesion envelope for the Czech Republic. That's how we run the safety net. At the same time, we want to achieve greater flexibility for Member States in using resources so that they can target investments according to their priorities and needs. The higher flexibility concerns, in particular, the possibility of higher transfers between cohesion policy funds and the reduction of the requirement for thematic concentration. The European Union could also register that it is not only Mantra Green Deal and digitalisation, but that we have some traditional industry, for example. a car that is the best in the world, but I feel that some green MEPs in the European Parliament are doing everything they can to damage it. Last but not least, we will promote the optional transfer of cohesion funds to the Fair Transformation Fund - Just Transition Fund, because a dramatic increase in its volume for this is no longer justified. By the way, the European Union tells us: here you have the Karlovy Vary, Ústecký, Moravian-Silesian Region. - And we're asking, "Can we use it for this?" There was a big debate about OKD today. OKD, where one gentleman pulled out 120 billion, destroyed the entire region, still has an Asental company, where he has billions of assets, forgot that he promised the miners flats for 40 thousand, he cashed 80 thousand. for rent and then 16 billion. And we're going to have to go to OKD, which we saved, by the way, we saved OKD, we bought it, give it now 1.2 billion. The crown to keep the company alive. [[with emphasis]] Here was a question from the Member, I don't think he's here now. So, yeah, we're gonna have to. But the gentleman buys for it, with the money he took there, the hockey club in Lausanne and his label are brainwashing citizens with all sorts of nonsense and edited information. So it's just the Just Transition Fund. I asked the question, "Building a D6 to Karlovy Vary, can I use the money?" We can't. So it's also money where we really need to know if we're gonna get what we need to get, so it doesn't happen that they're gonna say, well, here you have it, but you can't draw it. Own resources. As regards the revenue side of the budget, I am not in favour of any new own resources that would disproportionately affect countries with lower incomes. However, in order to be able to finance the recovery plan at all, it is necessary to approve the Council's decision on the system of the European Union's own resources, which will, for example, be adopted. increased own resources ceiling. However, specific proposals for new resources should be submitted by the Commission only within a few years. So far, she has only promised to present a travel map to present these proposals. On the other hand, the European Parliament, which has to agree with the proposal, sets new own resources as a condition for the adoption of the plan. It's going to be a very difficult match. With regard to the creation of new own resources, the government's position is well known, rather skeptical in the long run. The proposals for new own resources so far would not help to make the European Union budget more stable. [[18.20 hours]] On the other hand, we are therefore prepared for any specific proposals, when they are on the table, to thoroughly study and assess. It will be essential for our government that any new resources do not fall in proportion to the Czech Republic and its economy and thus do not record higher contributions from the Czech Republic to the budget of the European Union and do not lead to a weakening of the role of the Council, i.e. Member States, when determining their own resources and their parameters. I believe that the details and what is best for the Czech Republic must be discussed together, and I have therefore proposed to the Presidents of both chambers of Parliament to hold a joint expert seminar on this subject, which will be held next week on Wednesday, 15 July at 15 pm in the Senate. Indeed, the European budget is a crucial issue, and I will be happy to hear your proposals. And I would also be very happy if you would support the government's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u3	I thank the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, for the introductory words, and before I give the floor to the plaintiff of this paragraph to Ondřej Benešík, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. She apologizes from 18.05 Jana Mračková Vildumetzová for family reasons. Věra Kovářová for work reasons until the end of the meeting day. Pavla Golasowská for work reasons. For health reasons, Mrs Hyťhová and Mrs Helena Válková, for work reasons. Now colleague Ondřej Benešík. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this point has finally reached the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his time as well as for a really substantive opening speech which has made it clear how things are. I think we may disagree on some things, some of them we can agree on and some of them we can argue about, but that's what we're here for. I would like to submit that the Committee on European Affairs has discussed six legislative proposals, European legislative proposals that are directly linked to the recovery plan for European economies after coronavirus, and we have shifted these proposals, these European prints, to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. However, I do not think that this hearing for procedural and technical reasons will take place until sometime in September. That is why we have also proposed this point in order to be able to discuss the Prime Minister's mandate before the European Council, which will take place next week. The rapporteur for these prints, which have a material link to the recovery plan for European economies, is a member of our committee, Mr Adam Kalous, and that is why I would like to propose him as rapporteur for this point as a petitioner. So, Vice-President, you're registering this request for me. I think there's going to be a vote on this. It is clear beyond all doubt that the plan to support the economic recovery of Europe goes beyond the mandate of the current government of the Czech Republic, both in terms of time and in terms of the importance that its implementation will have for our entire country. That is why it is perfectly adequate for the position of the government before the key European Council negotiations to be discussed as a proper point in plenary in the Chamber of Deputies. I think that this is a completely unprecedented package of funds that this House must discuss, because this decision-making will certainly not be easy. And let us also say procedural issues and, say, the political-philosophical issues that are linked to this plan deserve the utmost attention from the Chamber of Deputies. So for this reason, we suggested this point. I am glad that it is being discussed that the Prime Minister is here to discuss this with us. And I repeat, as rapporteur on this point, I propose Mr Adam Kalous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for the introductory words of the plaintiff. And we will now decide on the rapporteur, who is proposed by the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Adam Kalous. I'm gonna get you all checked out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of applications is settled, I'll vote on the rapporteur's proposal... and one more moment... which Adam Kalous is to be in accordance with the committee's proposal. There are also others who have entered the House so that we can vote. We will decide on the designation of the rapporteur in the vote number 34, which I have just launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 34, 70 for 70, has been approved and I will ask my colleague Adam Kalous to take his seat at the rapporteur's table. I will also start a general debate in which I have the priority right of Mr Ivan Bartoš. A colleague of Mr. Kopřiva will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, before I begin my brief comment, and I must say that some of the things that the Prime Minister has said or read here, I would also agree with them. I find it a little smiling when the Prime Minister can define in one speech that European money is referred to as "the European Union gives" that it is European citizens' money. Yes, it is. He talks very often about the state budget and money of the citizens of the Czech Republic: I pour money somewhere, I buy. After all, it started here with OKD - We bought OKD. So the Czech Republic, the state, is not the Prime Minister or the government. The state is us, the government is based on democratic elections, and in most of the House, it has some legitimacy to run this state. So the money is really always citizens, whether the Czech Republic or the European Union. If we blame one of them for any rhetoric, please do not use the same rhetoric as you do here in the same speech, Prime Minister. I would just like to briefly discuss the way in which the Pirates Club, and I think there is consensus on this, not only in opposition, but also on this rescue package, and on the subject with which the Prime Minister will negotiate subsequently. The European Union and its states are expecting a really large decline in GDP. It depends whether we can see this happening solely because of the coronation, or whether some countries have already had these problems before the crisis itself, and therefore a rescue package has been prepared. It is a plan to support the recovery of Europe, to help cope with this decline, or, as they say, to invest in the crisis. It's important to remember that when we talk about this rescue package, it's not the standard funds. It's often confused. They're not cohesion funds, they're not involved. Indeed, it is extra money, in addition to that standard way of drawing common European money. So when we talk about how much money comes into the European Union, how they are allocated, where the debt is created, it is important to distinguish that it is money beyond standard funds. The critical situation is particularly in Italy and Spain, and when we look at it soberly, the fall of these countries may have a major impact on the threat of the European Union as a whole, and therefore our Czech economy, which is dependent on the single market. When I look at the criticism of some, I would call them purely Eurosceptics, so I see that they are always a little happy that Europe is failing, but the real European space and stability of the European Union is due to the fact that we cannot let individual states fall. After all, there are such large states as Italy and Spain. The mechanism of the package is simple. I answer today and every day not only on social networks, people don't understand it very much. In this package, the EU will therefore borrow money, some of which will provide countries with loans and some as so-called. grants. Let's say they're actually grants, but they're often called grants in this. [[18.30 hours]] As the Pirate Party, we support the project in general, we see the meaning in it. The situation is serious and the Commission's efforts to intervene and to help the recovery of the EU are legitimate at the moment, but it is clear that the proposals also come from countries that have a relatively strong and functional bureaucratic apparatus. Thus, there is a risk of poor absorption or lack of recovery, or even misuse of the money in some way significantly lower than in Eastern countries or in some V4 countries or the Czech Republic. In my opinion, one of the major problems, and we would also address the Prime Minister's resolution there, is indeed the time frame for drawing the money. When we look at how money is drawn in wild projects in the Czech Republic at the end of that period, the four years are really small and we do not see it as sufficient to make effective use of money. These projects are gonna be getting ready for a while, and then all of a sudden, there's this last year when the money should be used. It is because of the limited absorption capacity of our economy, whether we can not spend the money, but use it meaningfully, invest it, we support the distribution of the rescue plan as pirát for a longer period of time. We're talking about 2021 to 2027. And it is vital that this money goes to areas that have some added value. It really isn't spending money on some kind of fun, some kind of festival. I think the demand that this money go into those programmes that the European Union supports is legitimate. I'd hate for the money to be used in some way, like bailing out some airlines, etc. And those priority directions are health, innovation, digitalisation, rural development, but they include aid to small, medium-sized companies, and this should be strictly controlled. I haven't seen the real investment plan we could put on it yet. In my opinion, the Czech Republic does not - the Prime Minister's list of projects cannot be regarded as an investment plan with which we could use this money by any means. I'd just like to sum up the basic attitude of the Pirate Party right now. We generally support the plan as a whole with the pirát and consider it important that it is carried out on the basis of constructive negotiations. So we're keeping our fingers crossed for the Prime Minister to see if these negotiations lead to a compromise. I'm a little skeptical, now that the new proposals are sounding in that direction, it's hard to change the universal formula for calculating individual countries' claims. If it changes by some sort of consensus, it'll be good. For some countries it is simply more advantageous and for some less. If we take this criterion of unemployment or GDP, this is problematic for the Czech Republic, because low unemployment in the Czech Republic, which has chosen the path of cheap economy and cheap work, is essentially not telling us about the wealth of the Czech Republic, on the contrary, this role penalizes us precisely in the calculation. So is GDP. If we are a country that has a high capital drain abroad in dividends, we are dealing with a slightly different problem than companies in countries like Germany or France, where the companies are located and the money does not drain. We insist on prioritizing those areas in which money is to be invested. I will repeat this again - innovation, education, competitiveness. On the contrary, we think that money should not be dissolved in any subsidies to European corporations. That is why we would not recommend, to a broad extent, directing those investments into the common agricultural policy. We call for money to be invested in accordance with Green Deal principles and digitization. At the same time, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, which has already been said, whether he could act in the direction of extending the period until 2027. Of course, and it was also said from the Prime Minister that he wouldn't be the quartermaster. I think it is not desirable for the Czech Republic to veto the resulting compromise in some way. At the same time, I would like to turn to the government. We have described the situation here, and we see it in general in recent years, that the absorption capacity of the Czech economy in these major projects is not quite good. Indeed, the Czech Republic should be prepared so that the money can be used meaningfully within the given time frame. It would be sad to negotiate more money that we won't use or be spent on these nonsense projects. At the same time, it is important that the Commission closely checks the money and insists on conditioning because we have a few oligarchs in the EU who often want to use the money for their interests, and I think that if we go in the direction of the debt that is subsequently incurred, this would be twice irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u7	I thank Mr Ivan Bartoš, the rapporteur with priority rights, then Mr Kopřiva. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will briefly follow up on the Prime Minister's speech and I would like to say two things that I consider important, and that is that the European Union wants to borrow EUR 750 billion for a period of 30 years, between 2028 and 2058. I would like to point out that the acquisition of such a large amount of resources through borrowing on financial markets and their use for European Union spending is a truly unprecedented step that can only be implemented if it is a temporary instrument and is declared exceptional with a clearly defined objective to address the consequences of the pandemic of coronavirus and so that this money supports the recovery and resilience of the economy of the European Union. The Prime Minister was talking about the ceilings on his own resources. These should be established only according to the agreement of the Member States and the total volume of the multiannual financial framework and recovery plans. Furthermore, I think that Member States should be informed on a regular and detailed basis of the current level of guarantees and borrowings and these have been provided and implemented transparently and in accordance with the principles of financial management. The second point, when the European Union proposes its new resources, as the Prime Minister said here, the government is generally cautious in this matter, nevertheless it expresses its willingness to discuss on the basis of concrete proposals allowing the introduction of such own resources which will not have a regression impact, i.e. they will not have an impact on the less developed Member States, i.e. the Czech Republic. My colleagues and I have prepared a resolution that we would like to make here. I would like to read four resolutions, that we support the position of the government on the recovery plan. Furthermore, the Chamber of Deputies supports the directing of European funds primarily into education, innovation, infrastructure and increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic through convergence. Because the government's priorities are infrastructure, convergence, that's where we want to direct the funds primarily, because I think the money is visible and bring immediate economic growth. I will also propose that the Chamber of Deputies considers it necessary for investments to promote green and digital transformation and to improve the European Union's infrastructure interconnection. Furthermore, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Commission, in addition to cross-compliance with grants and loans, to take account of the state of the rule of law and to check consistently that the drawing-up of funds will comply with the laws of the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u9	I thank the rapporteur for the speech. Mr Kopřiva, Mr Valenta will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, although we have already discussed this plan to support the recovery of Europe several times with the Prime Minister, we have argued about this in the Committee on European Affairs, I consider it important to discuss it once more, all the arguments, here in plenary, because the role of the national parliament is unrepresentable in the EU legislative process, which is simply something that some opponents of the EU keep from citizens. [[We were having ……]] [[18.40 hours]] I will take this a little wide, because some important assumptions sometimes fit in the discussion and, on the contrary, some technical parameters are exaggerated. In any case, I thank the Prime Minister and the rapporteur for the constructive approach today. So I would start with some context and starting points, because sometimes it just fits in with the debate. Humanity has hit a pandemic that is unprecedented in our interconnected world and represents without exaggeration the greatest global shock since World War II. Despite unprecedented measures that have paralyzed society for several weeks, over 12 million people have already been infected in six months according to official statistics, and at least 550 thousand have died, of which almost 200,000 in Europe. This year, according to a conservative OECD estimate, the emerging economic crisis will cause the world economy to fall by 6 to 8 percent. According to the latest European Commission forecast, the decline in the European economy is projected to be 8.3 percent. And the Czech economy is expected to fail by an older estimate of 6.2 percent, but it may be even more. So there is nothing less in the game than the survival of the European single market. The Czech economy depends on it because of its close connection. 84 percent of our exports are going to the European Union. I hope we all agree on that. That's the facts. Furthermore, most of us probably agree that we should invest in this crisis, even given the experience of the crisis after 2008, when we tried to investigate the crisis and it did not turn out quite well. This is said by most experts and economists, such as the Koronerv Group in the Koronerv Republic, representatives of the private sector, such as the Confederation of Industry and Transport, as well as state officials, including our government. Moreover, they add that the sooner the investment starts, the more the effects of the crisis will ease. It is no wonder that this is the intention of the European Commission. Such a massive challenge can be faced by Europe only if we agree on a common solution, if possible in the foreseeable future. What's the point of this plan, my previous speakers have already said here. On the basis of this strategic point, which I mentioned, the Commission proposes to borrow on the financial markets thanks to a great rating, by the way more advantageous than the Czech Republic itself, to borrow EUR 750 billion and to strengthen their multiannual financial framework so that it does not have to be cut off from previously planned funds, such as cohesion, for which we are still a net beneficiary in the next period, so that we do not lose any money. The loan is justified due to the scale of the crisis, but future generations will be burdened. It's due to be paid back by 2058. That's why we really have to deal with the money economically. However, this is not the first time the Commission has borrowed. This mechanism has worked in the past. The novelty is that the borrowed money is also used for non-refundable grants to Member States and, of course, the amount of the loan itself. This money is intended to be used partly to save the sectors and entities affected by pandemics, partly to strengthen resistance to potential future crises, and finally to invest, although not directly related to pandemics, but would have to come either way, and, in line with the starting point, investing in the crisis is the right moment for them right now. There is probably no doubt about the need to invest in health, research and self-sufficiency. But investment in innovation, digitization, sustainability, competitiveness and rural development also makes sense. The plan aims, among other things, to continue to combat climate change. That could cost the planet and us a lot of money. And although COVID-19 has now had media attention, the climate crisis has not gone anywhere and is getting worse. As annoying as this sounds for the Member States, it is necessary to require more precise targeting and conditioning of the funds so that money is invested effectively and there is no abuse. It is quite appropriate for the Commission to take account of the rule of law when assessing projects, in order to ensure that firms can apply for grants under fair conditions and that money is used for the benefit of all, not for the benefit of a narrow group of people and companies linked to politics. God forbid that the amount and method of distribution of money at the European Council should be driven by premieres who also control companies that draw funds. But that can't happen in Europe. In line with the interests of Czech citizens, pirate MEPs in the European Parliament are also calling for fairness in the distribution of grants and the treatment of conflicts of interest. Furthermore, we will, of course, promote greater emphasis on open software in digitalisation, the principle that software developed for public money should be open, i.e. publicly auditable and accessible to other innovations. The plan contains several problems and challenges both for the Union and for the Member States. And here we agree on something with the Prime Minister and the government position and not on something. When recovery after the pandemic is combined with investment in other areas, it is in our interest and, after all, in line with the objectives of the entire plan to demand more money from the borrowed amount for the Czech Republic. Perhaps no one disputes the Prime Minister that the proposed formula for the distribution of EU money from new funds is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic. However, this is not due to the gloating of Brussels, but to the structure of our economy, that is to say that we are a montage of the European Union, for which we alone are responsible. I'm bohužel so. So far, we've been seemingly profiting from low unemployment at the cost of lower wages, and now it's coming back to us. Rather than a non-conceptual change of formulas, we find it a more elegant solution to move funds into programs where formulas are more advantageous for the Czech Republic. This, for example, is precisely the strengthening of cohesion policy, or cohesion. That is where EUR 50 billion is to go, according to the Commission's current proposal. But it's perfectly legitimate to say it's supposed to be more. We also benefit from the Fair Transformation Fund, which can help our coal regions, for example, but Prime Minister Babiš still rejects it. It is also worth mentioning that, as the Czech Republic, we are not able to draw on community programmes, i.e. those of central, Union, from which we can finance a lot of innovative projects. But that's for a different discussion. We consider the Government's very well-founded comment that the absorption capacity of the Czech Republic and other states naturally, namely the ability to use the money effectively, is limited. Needless to say, we're kind of on our own again. We're behind on digitization. Bureaucracy is huge in our country. And we don't know how to plan or target investments. As a result, instead of investing in infrastructure, subsidies go into unnecessary projects that distort the market. However, we do not consider the Commission's intention for funds to be drawn only until 2024, to be too effective. We therefore support the Government's position that money should be able to be used throughout the budgetary period of the multiannual financial framework, up to 2027. But hand in hand with this, it is necessary for the government to create the best conditions for fair and efficient drawdown. There are a number of details that we can endlessly argue about. The most important thing, however, is, in our view, to approach the negotiations constructively. Prime Minister Babiš approach that all the Commission's proposals have been harshly criticized right from the start, and then we are going to Brussels with our hands stretched out for more money, is not entirely professional and is certainly not a self-confident foreign policy. The pandemic and the ensuing crisis coincidentally affected most of the EU countries that had already had structural problems, such as Italy and Spain. Nobody's covering that up. On the contrary, the Commission's aim is to address these structural problems seriously. That is why investments are targeted to help with the necessary reforms in industry. The Prime Minister likes to suggest that the European funds, as part of the plan to support the recovery of Europe, are perhaps to be some reward for the excellent management of the pandemic. But it is the opposite. It is about helping the most affected, where the consequences are the most serious so far. It is worth recalling that Italy was the first country hit by the European Union, and thanks to it, the other states accelerated the measures and thus saved quite possibly tens of thousands of lives. In Italy, at least 34,000 people died by the end of June, that's 576 per million, that's 28,000 people in Spain, that's 607 per million. For us, it's 33 per million, that's a little different. Some critics argue that Italy is not responsible. It's true he has a big debt. It's historically accumulated. It's hard to say that Italy has been throwing around lately. The real income of Ital is even lower than 20 years ago. Without taking account of the debt repayment costs, Italy has consistently maintained its budget in surplus before the pandemic hit. We can only dream about that. [[18.50 hours]] In addition, the rescue of Italy is also in our economic interest. Czech companies exported goods directly to Italy for 173 billion in 2019. CZK and Italy is our seventh largest business partner. We export twice as much goods there as we do to Russia or the United States and three times as much as to China. For the context, I will add that the Czech Republic is a net beneficiary for its membership in the EU, over 809 billion in total. CZK, while the net payers have always been Italy and Spain. So what does that mean? We can view the Plan to support the recovery of Europe morally as an expression of solidarity and some international belonging, we can take it as a part of the responsibility for our joint project on behalf of the EU, or we can also take it purely pragmatically as a rescue of the single market and support of Czech exports, or also as an opportunity to draw Union grants. And all these approaches are legitimate. Whatever we take, it is in our best interest for this plan to be implemented in some resulting compromise form. Therefore, the Prime Minister should constructively negotiate on its final form, and most importantly, in the final vote at the European Council, wherever it may be, he should be supported. I would still follow up on the rapporteur, who has already read part of the resolution, which has been inspired by what we have put together with the Pirates, People's Clubs, TOP 09 and STAN, so some of the rapporteur has taken over and modified a bit, but I believe that our original version is better, so I will read some as counterproposals. And then I will also read our original resolution, virtually. those points which the rapporteur has not taken over or on which we disagree with the government Members. We in this resolution want to declare some fundamental points and positions on the package. We are giving feedback to both the Commission and our government, and I think the House should set priorities for where the money is to go. We therefore call on the Plan to support the recovery of Europe as a whole as the Czech Republic and consider it important for it to take place in some form. We remind you that the stabilisation of the European single market is in the immediate economic and political interest of the Czech Republic. We support the direction of European funds primarily in education, innovation and increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. We consider it essential that investments are carried out in accordance with the principles contained in the Green Agreement for Europe. We call on the Prime Minister, under the Next Generation EU, to promote, in line with the interests of the Czech Republic, an increase in funds to cohesion policy and to the Fair Transformation Fund. That's how our chairman Ivan Bartoš mentioned that he wouldn't come to us conceptually to change the formula that is advantageous for everyone else, just not for us. We therefore call on the Prime Minister, in line with the government's framework position, to promote an extension of the period for budgetary commitments, ideally for a full seven-year period. We call on the Prime Minister to support the Plan to support the recovery of Europe in the final vote in the European Council. We call on the Government to prepare suitable conditions for the easy and fair drawing of European funds. Then we also call on the Commission, in addition to cross-compliance with grants and loans, to take account of the state of the rule of law and to check closely the drawing of funds by the Member States. Finally, we want to call on the Commission not to raise funds to the common agricultural policy, because there is also a proposal to increase this programme, so we do not want the Commission to increase unless there is a rapid change in subsidy schemes, with emphasis on sustainable landscape management and climate objectives. Thank you for your attention. I will also include this resolution in a detailed debate, while declaring that we have agreed with the rapporteur and the Government on some of the points that I will read in the detailed debate, and we will certainly support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u11	This was Mr Kopřiva, Mr Jiří Valenta, who will be prepared by Mrs Dana Balcarová. Oh, sorry. A colleague of Valenta will posečkat, with priority rights, because there is no colleague of Stanjura, so a colleague of Skopeček as acting chairman of the ODS Club. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are discussing a very important point, and let me make a few comments. I agree with the claim that it is in the interests of the Czech Republic that the European economy should tread in quotation marks so that it is stable, that all parts of the euro area, including the southern wing, are even stable. But there's no such thing as the equation outlined here by fellow Pirates. It is not that we approve this proposal, this semi-finished product presented by the European Commission, and that it will automatically mean that for many years the stagnant eurozone, especially its overdebted southern wing, has become a competitive region within the EU, we will begin to grow and the sun will shine over the European Union and over the euro area. It's really not like that. When we look at what is proposed, I have already translated it into the Committee on European Affairs as a search for a European Commission instrument that would allow further living on the debt of the eurozone's southern wing in particular. It is nothing more than to use the coronavirus crisis to find a mechanism that will allow the continuation of living on the debt of the eurozone's southern wing in particular. Therefore, it is also not entirely surprising that the European Commission has taken unemployment as a parameter for the redistribution of money. It didn't go from the beginning of the equation, it went from the end. At that end, it was what the most pre-debted countries were supposed to get, what their share was, and that was what the formula was looking for, which would guarantee the result, and which would allow for the continued debt-living of a large part of the European Union. The proposal is not really about the coronavirus crisis. The koronavirový crisis has only been used to do so, as it has happened several times in the history of the European integration process, and the crisis, like the previous ones, has been used, virtually. used to carry out other relatively deep integration steps that deepen centralization, unification of the euro area. The proposal that we are discussing today, which we are discussing, brings about relatively revolutionary steps in the European integration process, which the European political elite has tried for many years and perhaps decades so far unsuccessfully, and this crisis has given it another opportunity to reopen these issues. What about the revolutionary topics that the proposal for so-called The recovery plan contains what are the revolutionary steps? First of all, it is the creation of a principle of common liability for joint debts by EU Member States. This principle has never been established in history and has been very difficult for the European Union to save Greece and other eurozone countries in particular with the help of various loopholes, but this is the first time that it has been granted a common guarantee for EU debts. The second revolutionary step for me is the debate and opening up the effort to introduce and create common taxes at a European level. Another issue that European political elites have been trying to do for years, and that principle is now to be washed away in quotation marks along with the coronavirus problem. The problem is that while the consequences, albeit painful, of the coronavirus, are resolved, the principle of joint liability for debts and European taxes remain here. And they don't even have to name themselves taxes, they can be payments that have a different character, like payments for non-recyclable waste, like revenue from part of emission allowances, in short, it's a great effort by the EU to become a superstate or federation over time to have the symbolic thing that belongs to every state, and that's the ability to impose and collect taxes. This symbolic thing, which will move the EU further towards the European superstate, is what is on the table here today. [[19.00 hours]] As I asked when discussing the state budget, I have to ask now: Do we really think that the EU's huge debt, which will take credit or buy or sell bonds, so that it can get free money to spend that new debts, Europe's debts, can help run the eurozone economy? Mr President, I feel that the traffic is going beyond the limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u13	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. But I'd like us to finish your speech in peace, so I'm asking you all to calm down. If you are discussing another subject, please in the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'll finish this quick. And then I will ask for one thing, because I think that we are discussing a very important and substantial topic that will decide the future of the EU, so it seems inadequate for me to discuss it in a half-empty hall, so after the end of my speech, I will ask that we come forward again and see if the number of Members corresponds to the minimum quantity, because it does not seem undignified to me to discuss such important things in a half-empty hall. If I may continue. I do not think that another huge EU debt to be repaid after many years, or that it is the transfer of responsibility from today's generation to the next, can do anything to help the already overdebted parts of the euro area. I really do not think that if you spend money on debt to the south of Europe, that this region will become competitive and start to grow out of the blue when it has been stagnating for years. It is clear to all that the problem of these countries is precisely their pre-debtedness, the inability to live from the past without debt, the over-regulation of the European economy that brings this part of the euro area down. I am sure I agree that we are supposed to be solidarity within the EU. That we are to help countries that have suffered painfully from the pandemic of coronavirus. I also agree with helping the southern part of the euro area, of course, where the impact of coronavirus was the most painful. But I am deeply convinced that this needs to be done as a one-off gift, or as a loan that will be repaid by these states, not as permanent debt financing for a part of the euro area, which paradoxically lives much better than citizens of the Czech Republic. For example, if we compared pensions in Italy and Greece with our pensions in the Czech Republic and we should also finance these relatively higher pensions, it would not seem fair to the Czech Republic. We're at a press conference a few weeks ago when the negotiations for the so-called. The recovery plan, they called on the Prime Minister to defend certain four premises in the negotiations. In this respect, we do not want to play any cheap opposition policy. We really think that this is a subject that goes beyond one parliamentary term and should go beyond some standard political arguments, and in this sense our Prime Minister has support in certain things he says. But, of course, we have other priorities, not only to change the mechanism or the parameter by which money is to be redistributed. I would define the conditions and then pass them on to the rapporteur as a motion for a resolution. So the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic orders the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrea Babiš to negotiate the so-called. The recovery plan respected the following conditions of the Czech Republic: I. prevent the emergence of pan-European taxes, respectively. the EU's own autonomous income, II. prevent the introduction of permanent joint liability by Member States for EU debts, III. when negotiating a compromise on the so-called a recovery plan to promote core inclusion between so-called net energy sources, and finally IV. change the principle of distribution of funds according to the unemployment data to a parameter taking into account the actual consequences of the coronavirus crisis. You can see that these are resolutions in which at least partly we agree with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. We consider these four conditions to be such an unstoppable line that the Prime Minister should respect in this negotiation. I don't really understand the position of some opposition parties who today called on the Prime Minister to agree to the recovery plan when the plan is a semi-finished product. No one in the EU today knows what will eventually become of this semi-finished product, what conditions will remain or fall out of it. And it really seems incredible to me that someone wants to give the Prime Minister such a serious matter a blank check to agree ahead of time without knowing what it will actually mean for the Czech Republic. This is an absolute abandonment of any national interests of the Czech Republic and an automatic consent to anything Brusel invents. I do not consider it happy, I do not consider it responsible Members who are responsible to the citizens of the Czech Republic. I think we should first wait for what we can negotiate in the EU and then put a definitive stamp on whether or not we agree with this compromise. That was my contribution to this debate. However, Mr President, as I have announced, it seems to me that there is not enough minimum number of Members in the Chamber to continue. And I'm begging you to check this thing out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u15	Thank you. I, of course, must proceed under Section 54, or a meeting may be held even in the presence of fewer Members than the lowest of the votes, but we cannot vote if you are proposing, under Section 72, a continuance to ensure a higher presence of Members, so because it can only be done for a period of time or for some condition. So if I am to see this as a way of demanding that there be a minimum number of Members, then in that case, it is a voteable proposal under Section 72. And, of course, I'd be happy to have him vote if I checked you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And before the number of entries is settled, I'll state the apology received. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, from 18.30 to the end of the day, and from 1845 she apologises to Mrs Jana Krutáková. There has been a procedural proposal that we continue this discussion only if the lowest legal participation for decision-making is present, that is, one third of the Members, which is 67. There's no such number. I'll wait a little longer. And if I fail to reach such a kvora, then all I have to do is interrupt the meeting and we will decide on the continuation of this meeting after discussion in political grémium. However, the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, has priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u16	Thank you for the floor. I needed clarification, I feel like there are more people in this room than 43 people. And we think that the Member is obliged to show his presence by card to electronic devices, so I would like to remind my colleagues that the card is taken out according to the Rules of Procedure if he leaves the hall. But if they're present, they should have it there. Alternatively, it is possible to recalculate it manually, you Members. [[Fun and laughter, applause from the Pirates bench.]] Because I believe that the House contains more than 67 people, so whether or not there are some scrutinists or a substitute system entrusted with it when it appears that colleagues are sitting here and not logged in. And they're not opposition colleagues, for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u17	I understand, Mr. Chairman. But there is a procedural proposal, and since I can't let him vote, I have no choice but to interrupt the meeting without determining the date as suggested by Mr Skopeček. I just don't know how to handle this procedure any other way to maintain a minimum relationship with the Rules of Procedure. But the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka is still reporting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, when my colleague Michálek spoke, I began to count how many Members were here. There were around 70 Members physically present in the hall and you can have them recounted through the CCTV. That's the first thing. If he wants a government coalition, there's no problem meeting on vacation in July. We'll call an emergency meeting if you have a problem negotiating this. This is more than CZK 300 billion for the Czech Republic, and if you don't care about this and you get up and go home from work at 19.05, we just don't care. And if you guys are gonna walk around next time and say "we want some solid deal with the opposition" - we're gonna meet you in a lot of ways, then don't count on our helpfulness. I just don't see this as a normal fair approach at a point as important as this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u19	Mr President, I understand you, but take it this way, there is no one to replace me, so I cannot speak, but on the other hand, I must - and I see my colleague Pikal, so he can. I am merely pointing out that I am in the position of the President in a situation where I am to have the Member's procedural proposal tabled without debate. It is not the duty of a Member to sign up in a Chamber, I do not know such an obligation under the Rules of Procedure Act. Because the Member may declare his will by voting in favour, against, abstain from voting or not taking part in the vote. We've made that clear many times. That is the will of every Member. And you're thinking right, of course, that it's a political responsibility when it is, and it's not here. On the other hand, I understand my colleague Skopečka very well, given how much money is involved and how dignified and appropriate the environment is being discussed by the House. It's a legitimate suggestion what my colleague Skopeček said. We can argue that politically in any way, but I find this proposal very legitimate. So that's what I'm supposed to do with it. At the moment when 67 Members are not signed up, and it is the will of Members, not mine, I have no choice but to proceed under Section 54 and interrupt the meeting. I'm gonna wait until 19.15, if I'm gonna oblige my colleagues, so... Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u20	I would like to recall pursuant to § 69 para. 2: "The Member shall, upon entry into the Chamber, sign in by means of a voting device. They shall be signed off on leaving the Chamber.' So if he enters, then he loggs in, then he logs out again so he's not here, and at the same time he doesn't check out, because he didn't leave the Chamber, it seems to me that it doesn't exactly fit the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. However, as far as the method of voting is concerned, of course, we can manage, even if it is not possible to use the voting device, because, according to Section 73, the method of voting, unless it is determined by law, will be proposed by the President. You suggested that we vote with a voting device. That's not the only way to vote. We can also vote on names, of course, so we can read all of them alphabetically and raise our hands here, but it seems to me that this is really undignified for this Chamber of Deputies. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister to return to his agreement with the citizens he was running with in the election, and part of that agreement with the citizens he promised to hold at any moment is that he will not be doing procedural obstructions in Parliament and, on the contrary, he will arrange for this to be resolved. [[price]] And now your MPs are sitting here, and they aren't logged in, so that they can't tolerate it. So as you can see, the whole right O.R., the whole right O.R. is full here, and the whole left part of the O.R. is empty, or the co-workers are sitting here. I've been counting. There's actually been a lot of people here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u21	I understand you, Mr President, but if you want to vote by name, I also need 67 votes, registered. Because I can't make any other decision. The Prime Minister is reporting because he has priority rights. Even if it is voted without debate, it is because those Members of the Government can speak with priority rights at any time, i.e. outside the debate. [[Mr Bartošek is applying for the floor.]] Now he has the floor with the Prime Minister's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u22	I'm sorry, I don't know what Mr. Michálek is talking about. I'm here, I've got a card, I've got time, we can be here by morning, I've got no problem, I'm looking forward to the debate with you. So please don't blame me. I don't know what you're accusing me of. I've been coming here sometimes - I've been waiting since 9:00 in the morning for your epidemiology conference to end. [[Laughter and applause from the right side of the hall.]] I didn't know your colleague was so skilled. That your colleague pirate didn't sign up for the chief hygienist, she could have won. I'd recommend her. So I'm here. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u23	President of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u24	Prime Minister, it looks like you're repelling each other because either you or your MPs are in a meeting. [[Laughter and applause from the right side of the hall.]] That means it would be good to reconcile it so that you're both here together, or all of you together. Since the opposition is present and wants to act, it is mostly present, and those who are absent are members of the ANO movement, those who are absent are members of the ANO movement, at that moment I am marrying - Mr President, either you demean the President of the Faltýnek, or I will. [[Mr. Faltynek yells at the speaker.]] And I am taking a nine-minute break so that members of the ANO movement can come and continue the negotiations. I'm taking a nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u25	Prime Minister, don't yell. I'm gonna set things straight here. The one who's been given the floor is speaking. If you want a break at the club meeting, I'm sure I'd be happy to give it to you. Tell me for how long. [[Member Bartošek repeats that for nine minutes.]] Nine minutes. So I said, by 19.15, that I would be waiting for the vote, because my colleague Skopeček did not take back his procedural proposal. That's his legitimate right to deal with the proposal. And you want nine minutes, or 19.26 hours. Yeah, I'm interrupting the meeting until 7:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-09-ps2017-056-01-004-004.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue the adjourned negotiations after the KDU-ČSL meeting. I have been informed that there has been an agreement between the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, and that agreement is also accepted by the appellant, Mr Skopeček, who represents the President of the ODS Club, with the suggestion that this point 56 of the meeting should be interrupted by tomorrow, i.e. 10. 7:00 p.m. till 10:30 p.m. The 55th meeting, which has a solid programme on the basis of the signature of Members, begins at 9.00, and will be interrupted at 10.30 if it is not completed earlier, and we will continue with this 56th meeting. Replacement card - how many numbers? [[Two.]] Number two is a colleague of Benda. Thus, and by this statement pursuant to § 54 para. 9 I interrupt this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Meet me tomorrow at 9.00 at the 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good evening.
