ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-004-318.u1	318. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other, signed in Brussels on 17. 7. 2018 /house print 348/ - second reading Once again, Mr. Karel Havlíček, Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, will Petříček this proposal for the government. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-004-318.u2	Let me present to you for discussion the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part. As has already been said during the previous debate in the Chamber of Deputies, the European Union and Japan are very close. In 2001, the European Union entered into a strategic partnership with Japan. This was based on common values such as democracy, the promotion of human rights, freedoms, the preservation of international reconciliation, stability and, where appropriate, efforts to liberalise the world economy. Thanks to its geopolitical position, it is an important ally in the very developing Asia-Pacific region, one of the key areas in which the European Union and Japan strengthen their cooperation is the area of security. We're doing business together, too. Japan is the sixth largest trading partner for the European Union with regard to exports of goods from the European Union and the seventh in the case of imports of goods into the European Union. However, a lasting feature of trade relations is the long-term balance sheet deficit on the part of the European Union. [[11.20 hours]] Given the very strong trade and the expansion of political and security cooperation, the European Union and Japan concluded in 2012 that a high-quality legal framework, ideally broad political agreement, needs to be given to relations. The agreement should thus strengthen the overall partnership. This is therefore not a free trade agreement, the so-called EFTA, which has been negotiated separately with Japan. In addition to the agreement presented, the so-called Economic Partnership Agreement was discussed, both forming part of a single negotiating body. The agreement provided is a mixed agreement and the Government of the Czech Republic agreed to negotiate the agreement. The agreement was subsequently signed at the last summit of Europe - Japan, the European Union - Japan, in Tokyo in 2018. The position of the Czech Republic was positive from the beginning, the objectives are consistent with our priorities. Japan is a very important ally and important trading partner of the Czech Republic. The agreement could also serve as a platform for closer cooperation and dialogue on a number of bilateral regional multilateral issues. It strengthens political, economic, sectoral cooperation and so on. It also establishes a commitment by the Parties to protect international peace, security, by preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The content of the agreement is in line with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, as well as obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. The ratified agreement will then be announced in the Czech Republic in the Collection of International Treaties and will become part of the legal order of the Czech Republic in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution. The subsequent implementation of the Agreement is not expected to entail financial or budgetary implications. The agreement will thus not have an impact on gender equality or environmental issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-004-318.u3	Thank you. Mr Jan Lipavský was designated rapporteur for the Foreign Committee. I ask him to justify the committee's resolution. We have it at our disposal as the House Press 348/1. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-004-318.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you very briefly to the Foreign Committee resolution of 21 February 2019 on the proposal under discussion. After discussion and justification, the Committee agreed that it would recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other. Subsequently, he authorized and seized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-004-318.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. There's no interest in final words. We shall take the vote on the motion for a resolution. Isn't it a request for us to read the motion for a resolution again? It's not. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 122 registered 88 Members, for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this point. Now we're going to focus on the point.
