ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u1	368. The draft law amending Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures in relation to the occurrence of coronavirus SARS CoV-2 /house print 830/2/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 830/3. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us and ask the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová to speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. I shall ask, honourable Members, for peace in the hall! Take your seats. Or if you still have the vote, go to the lobby, but please calm down in the hall! [[The President is ringing.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of the bill, which extends the period for which a compensatory bonus is granted to self-employed persons, I have already presented here in detail during the last discussion, when there was also a detailed discussion on individual topics. I would therefore only like to comment on the amendments that have been adopted by the Senate and which I do not agree with. The first amendment extends the range of compensatory bonus entities to employees or persons working on an employment agreement if their income does not exceed CZK 10,000, as well as to voluntary care and foster workers. A similar amendment has already been adopted by the Senate once before to the House press by number 816 as an inadmissible legislative sticker. However, it was not approved by the Chamber of Deputies at that time. My opposition to the amendment adopted is mainly due to the fact that the key aspect in providing government support to mitigate the impact of the current crisis is to avoid combinations and co-operations in order to avoid unjustified disparities between the entities receiving the aid. Government support is thus distributed between the measures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Antivirus programme and measures consisting of the activities of the Ministry of Finance. The Compensation Bonus Act is intended primarily to saturate self-employed persons who have completely lost their livelihood or have fallen significantly. It is therefore not possible to agree with compensation for persons who are generally considered to be employees. A key is the existing border set by the Health Insurance Act, which says who is and who is not an employee. The compensation bonus law did not create this limit, but only took over the criteria already existing in the sickness insurance law. These criteria should continue to be respected. The extension of a compensatory bonus outside the scope of self-employed persons also complicates the management of the compensatory bonus by the financial authorities because they do not have such registration. As far as voluntary care workers are concerned, volunteering in the true sense of the word is not excluded from the tax bonus. Such a person shall reach a compensatory bonus if he is also self-employed. Only in a situation where volunteers receive a remuneration of more than CZK 3,000 per month are included in employees' sickness insurance and are not entitled to a bonus. As far as foster parents are concerned, they're called. professional parents receive remuneration from a state comparable to the salary paid throughout this crisis. In this case, we do not want to replace here either, and we do not want to actually combine these rewards. The aim of the second amendment... Maybe I'll comment on the brokers. In the case of brokers up to CZK 10,000 who are self-employed at the same time, there is a binding methodology of the Financial Office on the Financial Administration's website, so they will achieve a compensatory bonus. The aim of the second amendment is to increase the amount of the compensatory bonus so that it amounts to CZK 700 per day in May and CZK 900 per day in June. Although the reasons for the amendment are understandable, it is not desirable to further increase the budgetary implications of the draft law, and as I have already said, the compensatory bonus is not the only instrument adopted in the context of the current situation and the measures taken, it is necessary to view them comprehensively, in terms of public budgets from which they are drawn. At the same time, the current state of affairs can be assumed that restrictive crisis measures will be terminated sooner than originally expected. As I mentioned at last discussion, representatives of the Association of Trade and Tourism of the Czech Republic, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic and all of them commented on maintaining the current wording of the Act, with the fact that the bonus period will only be extended. I would like to thank them for their cooperation. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the compensation bonus law is an important and functioning instrument for helping self-employed people. As of 29 April 2020, the financial authorities received approximately 460 thousand requests for payment of the compensatory bonus and, for the period of application of the measure, the financial authorities paid the applicants an amount of CZK 10 billion in total. I would therefore like to ask you to support the law as adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and I will now ask Senator Tomáš Goláň to take the floor, who will give us the Senate's opinion. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Mr President. I'm here with the compensation bonus for the second time, and I'm here because the compensation bonus came to the Senate in a modified form. This means that you, Members, have made it possible for teaching activities to be associated with this activity. That means there's a conspiracy. I know the Treasury Secretary didn't agree to this, but the House approved it. There is a combination of activities and self-employment, which have any other pedagogical activity in any amount, i.e. even 50 thousand, they have this activity, and yet they reach a compensatory bonus. And that's why I've decided to extend it only to foster parents, only to those workers in social services, and also to people with little income. A small income of up to 10,000, they have it under the employment agreement, which means they have it more than 3,000, less than 10,000, because they are employed in an employment agreement, they are involved in sickness insurance under the sickness insurance law, and they are small amounts. [[15.40 hours]] As the Secretary of State said here, these measures will be reduced rather than prolonged. This means that the impact on the state budget will be negligible. And if teaching workers have the opportunity to have conspiracy, why can't foster parents and caregivers or employees who have a small-scale job? These are examples where a hairdresser simply has a closed salon, helps with a gynaecological emergency room, gets 5,000 for a job agreement. A woman like that gets nothing, not a penny. But a teacher who has a 50,000-dollar lecturer will get a bonus. This is precisely because of the amendment you adopted here last time. And I think it would be right not to forget about the foster parents and the caregivers and the people with the little employment relationship. I therefore beg you to support this amendment, as the Senate has accepted it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u5	Thank you, Senator Goláň. I will therefore ask if he is interested in the amendments tabled by the Senate to the rapporteur of the Kamal Farhan Guarantee Committee. He's not interested. And I don't think any other committee has spoken about it. We can therefore proceed to the debate. I am opening a general debate. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr. Jan Hrnčíř, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, we will support the Senate proposal, of course, even if it is not accepted, we will support the government, because the change is good, because it extends the compensation bonus for the next period. So it's definitely not gonna happen what happened at MY Tax Amendment. [[There's noise in the room.]] In any case, I believe that the Senate version is significantly better because it removes one of the biggest problems of the current system, and that is zero tolerance for co-operation with employment. I think it's just a big mistake, because it makes a great deal of injustice for a number of people who have marginal income from their jobs, they have a vast majority of income from their business activities on the trade list, and today they get zero support. The Senate is proposing a $10,000 stake. This is an acceptable compromise for us. We can imagine the boundaries in different ways. For example, at minimum wage level or at the limit of part-time. But at least it's a compromise and a helpful step towards people who are being punished today for making a little extra money on the trade list. That's why we support the Senate version for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u7	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Jan Hrnčíř, the last member of the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u8	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to say for the SPD club that we also support the version that came from the Senate because it reflects basically our proposals, and it's a bit of a shame that when we were discussing the press here at 830 last time we approved the House, the proposals fell here, that it was necessary to extend the compensatory bonus to those who have agreements that are currently engaged in youth and other activities in their free time, and we also proposed an increase of the bonus to CZK 800, so we reflect that there is a change of 700 and 900. It's just a shame that we couldn't have pushed it in there as opposition much sooner, that we'd deal with it in vain after that with a delay. So we support the Senate version for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u9	I thank Mr Hrnčíř. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one, I am done with the debate. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. But I'm gonna go for it before because the President of the House asked for peace during the performance. [[There are voices calling for a break from the diaper.]] Oh, okay. I'm registering a request for a break from the club of the ANO movement, so we'll vote at 15.50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-001-368.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I'll check you all out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 978 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The chairman of the CSSD club asked me for another three minutes' break, so we'll continue at 15.53. [[The hearing was suspended from 15.50 to 15.53 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed, because we are voting in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, this means that the Chamber of Deputies would agree with the proposal tabled by the Senate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on the compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, according to the House Print 830/2, as approved by the Senate, according to the House Print 830/3.' I've started voting number 147 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 147, 180 for 71 Members present, against 86. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore continue and vote again, pursuant to § 97 para. 5 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Kvorum is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on the compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in the version in which it was referred to the Senate, according to House Press 830/2.' I've started voting number 148, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 148, 184 for 183, against no one. The motion has been approved. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr Senator, rapporteur, and I finish point 368. Before I begin item 370, by the end of the day, the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes. Now let's start the point.
