ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u1	3. Government proposal for a law on lobbying / House printing 565/ - first reading I will ask my colleague Jan Chvojka, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. And I will now request that, under the authority of the Government, the motion put forward by Madam Justice Minister Marie Benešová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. It is a government proposal for a law on lobbying, which is in the first reading, and like other things, it is a law that was prepared according to the plan of the Government's legislative work for 2019 and is part of the fulfilment of the government's programming declaration and international recommendations. It's a bill that changes... This is, therefore, another law that will follow, which will therefore be in connection with the adoption of this law. [[10.10 hours]] We can probably agree that lobbying is perceived as a legitimate and necessary matter in advanced democratic societies, which ensures the distribution of important information and enables responsible persons to make qualified decisions in matters of general interest. But where lobbying ends and corruption begins, that is the question we have been asking ourselves for years. It has been dealt with by all democratic parties and has been dealt with for a long time. So this law should solve it. And in my opinion, only on condition that this activity is carried out transparently and under public control. If transparency should be a burden on certain projects, it is justified to believe that such projects are not in line with the public interest and pose a risk to that effect. The lobbying regulation was missing here. I still remember for chairing Mr Paroubek, when he chaired the Czech Social Democratic Party, that this has been resolved and unfortunately it has not been resolved. The main objective is therefore to distinguish legitimate lobbying from the non-transparable backstage, which is linked to undesirable phenomena such as clientelism and corruption. As far as the specifics of this bill are concerned, we come up with the creation of a so-called register of lobbyists and lobbyists to which groups of people will be inserted and will therefore inform on a quarterly basis in the form of a report on their lobby activities. Furthermore, there is the introduction of a lobbyist trail of every law. Together, these instruments would enable the public to monitor effectively the efforts to influence the form of the draft legislation already during the legislative process. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I see no reasonable reason for interest groups - lobbyists or their clients - to hide or hide their activities that affect public affairs. That is why we are coming up with this law, which should help a transparent environment in this area, and I am asking you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. I will ask the rapporteur to take up his word and the news report. Mr. Chvojka, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. I will link my news report to a speech that I would otherwise have in the general debate. I think that I am not doing anything against the Rules of Procedure, which means that I will also give my opinion on this press, on its substance. Thanks again for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it has been a long time since this press, it is press 565, has been sent by the government to the House. If I am not mistaken, the government did so in August 2019, so we have some 15 months since this press unfortunately lies at the gates of first reading. Now we have finally reached the first reading and I believe that the press will be passed on to committees, a guarantee logically constitutionally legal one, and then it will pass through second and third readings, and I believe that this will happen as soon as possible. Like I said, I've been here a long time, so I'm used to everything. I don't think that 15 months is a home record, which means a 15-month delay between sending the press to the House and discussing it at first reading. It's not a record, but I'm sure it's nothing to brag about. It's a shame. At the beginning of September, President Vondráček announced a bold plan to discuss key anti-corruption proposals at first reading by the end of October. That didn't work, but that month and a half is basically no longer a factor. So we're at an emergency meeting in the middle of December, and that's because we're dealing with covid, emergency, and other things connected with the pandemic, so there was no chance of putting this point in place, and I can't complain about it, I'm just saying, because that's an objective fact. Why the lobbying law is important to me. I take it a little bit, and some colleagues tell me that it is the worst thing I have done in my political career, as my child, because as Minister for Legislation and Human Rights in the Government of Bohuslav Sobotka, I have pushed forward the preparation of the substantive intention of the law, and I am also glad that the Government of Andrej Babiš has adopted this intention and that it has retained it as a priority, and that the substantive intention has, in principle, gone back to the thing that we are actually discussing today. It is certainly the best prepared proposal to regulate lobbying from those who have ever been given a chance to discuss in Parliament in the history of various proposals. And I also think from this title that he has the greatest hope of approval, even though we are entering this, unfortunately, final phase of this House's term of office. As far as lobbying is concerned, from my point of view, it is a legitimate part of democratic policy, but it is an activity that should have, and it is also a custom in some countries west of us, clear rules. Why give lobbying clear rules? I think that this is not even a fight against corruption, for which we have paragraphs of the Criminal Code and the Penal Code, but for me it is more important to improve citizens' access to information on the process of preparing and approving legislation and key state strategic documents. And what we can discuss and what we have to discuss is how much openness is adequate. I would also like to warn, in this context, about the rather naive idea that, hand in hand with the possible regulation of lobbying - and I repeat, I believe that we will use the ten months to do this - will disappear from politics by various gallbreads and godfathers as a wave of magic. That's where I think it's an idea that, unfortunately, is far from reality. The law on lobbying is based on the principle of registration, which logically cannot eliminate criminal offences in itself, but, as I said, we have criminal law, criminal code, criminal code - it is another discipline. I do not want to prolong my speech, but, as I said, I would like to briefly sum up a few ideas in the general debate. In advance, I advise that, in a detailed debate, I will propose to release the proposal for second reading and that we are definitely proposed by the Organising Committee to discuss it in the Guarantee Committee on Constitutional Law. As I indicated, the proposal is based on registration and transparency of registration in principle. It is a ticket to legitimate lobby activity and transparency is ensured by mandatory notification of lobby contacts via a special register. The result of which the public can work is a simple record, i.e. a so-called legislative or lobbyist lead, i.e. a summary of a broad set of persons involved in the preparation and approval of a specific legislative regulation. It is simple and in my opinion it is highly functional, or it should be highly functional, however, as always the devil hides in detail. And I expect a debate and, in particular, a constitutionally-legal committee on four issues or issues. The first is actually what is and is not a lobbyist. The second round is who the lobbyist is. The third circuit is how big the lobby circuit is supposed to be. And the fourth topic - is the lobbyist to report contact with the lobbyist to the register? These are the four headings I think about, and I perceive this also on the basis of the various seminars that I have visited, that they will be the subject of discussion. [[10.20 hours]] From the question of what is and what is not lobbying, I consider it essential whether it should be deleted from the definition of lobbying that it is a continuous and continuous activity. As a continuous activity, lobbying is defined in the government's proposal, and it should be said that all ad hoc communication falls out in this definition, but it may have a major impact on the final form of specific legislation. Personally, I am in favour of the broadest possible legislative regulation, and I can imagine that consistency will be removed from the proposal. As far as the definition of lobbyist is concerned, it will be a very delicate subject. I am certainly not the only one who has received a number of letters in recent months from various chambers explaining why this chamber is not to be included as lobbying entities. I also expect a big discussion there. How big is the lobby ring? That'll be another explosive theme. We will certainly have a debate on whether the President of the Republic, his advisors, members of the Cabinet of the Minister and a number of other persons should be among the lobbyists. I would like to draw your attention more systematically to the fact that the government's proposal is not going to do the fullest, and I believe that this is a mistake, unfortunately, by all the instigators of the legislative process, because among the lobbied so far - and we are going to discuss this, of course - there are not members of regional councils who have the right to legislative initiatives, virtually. regions as a whole. Similarly, cities and municipalities that publish their own legislation as regards self-government are missing. It will certainly be good to have an opinion as to the depth of the territorial government that the law should or could have gone and if at all. Maybe not. The issue will also be the obligation to report contacts and meetings to the register, especially the obligation relating to lobbied ones, among which are, of course, in addition to legislators, and perhaps more than legislators, civil servants. I want to say that I take very seriously opposition to this obligation if it should concern legislators, especially those who oppose it. Nevertheless, I believe that this obligation can be imposed by law and without it the proposed lobbying regulation will not be fully operational. That means, I understand the effort to impose such an obligation. These are topics for which I have been registering as rapporteur - and I repeat, it is not that we have opened the first reading today, but the proposal is moving here in the interspace between the approval of the government and the first reading for some 15 months and, of course, it has been discussed in various forums - for which I have noticed perhaps the most contradictory positions. I hope that we will be able to discuss them as best as possible within the framework of committee discussions. Finally, I would like to remind myself that the Guarantee Committee has been proposed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I myself wonder if other committees will be interested in this press. I think the debate that awaits us will be very broad and nutritious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Jan Chvojka, for the news report and for the broader statement. Before I open the debate, I state an apology to the Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from the entire day of the meeting. I open a general debate at first reading. First is the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In the introduction, I would like to appreciate the constructive debate that is taking place here today over individual points. After all, with the exception of Mr Okamura, this is essentially a debate between members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, as I observe. I will try to be brief, not to focus on the content of the law, but rather generally, I would like to support it, because it has already been the subject of the negotiations of my anti-corruption working group twice. International surveys show that the publication of lobbyists alone reduces the perception of corruption in the country. You don't believe me? Trust me. The publication of lobbyists and lobbying legislation has the potential to increase confidence in politics and the legislative process. We have a historic chance of consolidating our second-to-last position in the prestige of the job before the cleaners. We shouldn't miss this chance. Of course, I support what has been said here that listening to individual interests is completely legitimate, and the clarity of this process is in the interest of all of us. Lobbing is generally considered part of the democratic process and is defined as a characteristic manifestation of advanced democracies. Most advanced states therefore regulate lobbying in a way - the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Denmark, Poland, Austria and others. This ensures transparency and legitimacy of the entire legislative process. The topic is very current, on the international field discussed and mainly used in practice. The regulation of lobbying is complemented by instruments against conflicts of interest, for the enforcement of ethical behaviour and other anti-corruption measures. After all, that's what today's special meeting is all about. We all know what time we're in. We all know that what cannot be discussed at least at first reading as soon as possible will no longer have a chance to approve this parliamentary term. That's why the meeting today, even at a time when the situation isn't easy. This law was established in our country in the last parliamentary term. A colleague of Chvojka spoke well of him because he was there. It's part of the GRECO evaluation report. If we cannot accept such an amendment under this Recommendation, it may come later as a directive from the European Parliament, such as the protection of notifiers. That is why it is in our interest to make our own national legislation again. If we fight back, it doesn't mean we can avoid it. It has also been said from the participants in the anti-corruption group that this is an opportunity to explain that lobbying is something important and necessary for the parliamentary work. And lobbying is so far perceived negatively by the general public, causing negative connotations. In doing so, we know that we need lobbying at work as Members. I'll be lucky if no one thinks of it as a political issue. We should all work together on this because it concerns all of us. The anti-corruption task force met twice to regulate lobbying regulation. At the same time, I have addressed all the parliamentary groups with additional questions relating to lobbying regulation and a comprehensive amendment has been made to the press that we are presenting, although we are now at first reading and we are to vote on the House's consideration of this press. I myself have been a supporter of a minimalist solution focused on the legislative process from the outset, and from this point of view, I might as well refer to this law as a law on lobbying in the legislative process. Today, all members of the Working Group and the chairmen of the MPs will receive the comprehensive amendment electronically. The regulation aims at the central level of the legislative and decision-making process in the first stage without including the regional and municipal levels. We didn't agree on that within the group. I assume that those who take this view will put forward the relevant amendments and we will discuss this at least as factually as we do today. In order to reduce the administrative burden for lobbied people, this is for us, the obligation to maintain lobbyist legislative footprint is maintained, this is without the obligation to report periodic reports. Such a solution should be less burdensome and, at the same time, capable of achieving the objective pursued. Of course, the possibility to raise objections to the lobbyist report by lobbyists is maintained. As part of transparency, it is also proposed to include in the lobbyist trail persons who will not be registered lobbyists and who may not fulfil the definition of lobbyist but have an impact on the specific form of the law. It extends the personal scope of the Act on the Government Agent and the Advisor to the President of the Republic. The Head of the Office of the President of the Republic belongs in the circle of lobbyed persons already according to the current proposal. The extension of personal competence to other members of the President's Office is not considered necessary by either the petitioner or the working group. The lobbying will typically take place through the chancellor. [[10.30 hours]] The efficiency is shifted to 1. 1. 2021, as a register of lobbyists and lobbyists needs to be prepared, selection procedures must be carried out on the staff of the ÚDH to which this new agenda falls, and a budgetary page must, of course, be provided. This is not possible in 2021. At the same time, it was remembered, and we will certainly still be debating the benefits of lobbyists. The proposal regulates priority rights in public appearance at committee meetings, that is, the lobbyist would still be public, but he would have priority rights and better positions in discussions on committees, better, higher levels of access to eKLEP or the possibility of joining the Chamber of Deputies, which can be dealt with in a non-legal way. Thank you for your attention and also for your support in the first reading of this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u7	I thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies for the speech and we will continue with the debate, by expressing Mr Stanislav Grospič and preparing Mr Navrkal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, it may not surprise anyone to say that I am not a friend of lobbying or of this law, and I am not sorry that they have been in this Chamber for a long time, as opposed to other legal drafts, and it is likely that they will see the light of day in the Chamber of Deputies and will also be discussed by the second Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic and, if necessary, signed by the President of the Czech Republic and will therefore follow it, or future Members will therefore follow it and be bound by it. Unlike the petitioners, I think that the legalization of lobbying is a very dangerous way - and I think that, in contrast to the European Parliament, where the regulation of lobbying within MEPs is a large area for favouring certain circles of people, albeit under some rules and registration, and also for opening up the enormous space for corruption that we are actually fighting here. And almost all political parties have already committed themselves to combating and combating corruption. So I think that the bill will not in itself contribute to reducing crime, influencing Members, regulating, receiving wise or unwise advice or other lobbying, that is, promoting some appropriate, less appropriate amendments. I will give an example from my own committee of constitutional law, for example, where a number of different social organizations, associations, foundations, nonprofit organizations always get space, never happen to get space, and try to present and defend their opinions, but do so also the building chambers, the bar, the execution, the notary. It's legitimate, but I'd be afraid to call it lobbying and start judging these things as a form of lobbying. As far as I can tell, the law is very cumbersomely written. It is written very cumbersomely, it will create room for future litigation, unfortunately also for those who will deal with the issue of mandate and immune and will also create a number of precedents for the future and actually allow you to create another group of rentiers here, which is probably not the right thing to do, who will not live on their own work and benefit to society, even though they will, of course, pay taxes, but will actually live on mediating information, providing them and trading with them. And I think that the democratic parliament should be able to eliminate it. That he would not have to take examples - not of all, it is not in all European parliaments, or the parliaments of the world - that are not the most appropriate. When I had the opportunity to talk to colleagues in Austria, Italy, Greece and Germany, they admitted that they had quite a problem. For example, such a parliament, an Italian Parliament, each week, settles a dispute as to whether or not a Member reported or did not report his contact with a lobbyist, whether he was a lobbyist, whether or not he broke a rule. And that is what needs to be considered. Now I'll just be brief. Notice section 5, register of lobbyists and lobbyists. I wonder who's leading him. A register of lobbyists and lobbyists is hereby established, hereinafter referred to as a register, as an information system of public administration, and this registry administrator is the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements, hereinafter referred to as the Office. The Office shall ensure the possibility of making public access to the register through its website to the extent of the data given... and so forth and I shall not continue to quote. Thus, an office with which many of the political parties and movements represented here are fighting a variety of battles in terms of whether their account is transparent, whether they are forced to choose another bank that this office dictates to them. It is once again building on the constitutional system, because it is an office of non-office, it is one of the central authorities, but it is not an office at the level of the Ministry, it is an executive office, it should not stand over the parliament, but nevertheless dictates the conditions of political parties and supervises them, so this office will be additionally, it will have strong authority to influence and control who is or is not a lobbyist, how will this person be judged, and will also report to it the announcements that I have mentioned here. From this point on, I'm willing to propose that this bill be dismissed, and if it doesn't pass, it's to re-work it. It is only the reasoning that has been made here by the rapporteur that, in fact, the law will catch up with fate as many other laws, and I spoke here recently about the construction law. We throw him in the trash, he's already prepared a completely new comprehensive amendment, and we're actually going to discuss that. So we're doing work completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u9	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič, Mr Navrkal, and Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. So, after a year, this bill finally got on the floor of the House's agenda. We, as pirát, have been looking forward to this for a long time, because for us, this is mainly a level playing field, given that we have already had our lobbyist contacts since 2012, and, as some of my previous speakers have said, so many European states have already adopted similar arrangements. In the explanatory memorandum, we could all read that it is only an investment of hundreds of thousands of crowns for the introduction of the register, and in terms of increasing the number of officials, it will be units, so we can very cheaply get a significant increase in transparency of decision-making by people who are actually concentrated in the largest public power, which should strengthen the general public's confidence in politics in general, and that is, I believe, the interest of all of us sitting here. The proposal may have some problems, but we are definitely in favour. [[10.40 hours]] Among the problems that we would like to resolve here in the Chamber of Deputies in the course of this law, it certainly is that reporting should not take place back in the quarter, but we would feel much better if it had always been 30 days after that lobbyist contact. And we also do not like the narrow scope of the definition of lobbying at all, which concerns everything, because it is now only about the preparation of legislation and conceptual documents at government level, and according to us it should be extended at least to the area of decision-making as regards selection to supervisory committees, the distribution of subsidies and the award of public procurement. I guess that's it for the pirát. And I would ask you not to vote for rejection, as my colleague Grospič suggested here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u11	I thank Mr Navrkal. Now, Mr Marek Benda, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u12	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, it will be about this morning of the constitutionally-legal committee, as I see it, and as President Radek Vondráček of the House has already said here. As critical as I was to the last two prints, let's say, slightly critical, yet with some understanding of what's in them, I'm purely critical of this press. I consider it a fatal mistake that we are trying to deal with it at all, because it is a typical check-out of government priorities stuffed there by some transparent organisations and GRECO and similar groups of transparent terrorists that influence the government, and without thinking about what this is about to do, what is the goal, where there are problems in the Czech Republic, and whether those proposed mechanisms are leading in any way to solve the problem. Government officials, whose only key concern is, of course, that it should not concern them, and we here, in such condescending semi-consciousness, will begin to approve the dramatic regulation of ourselves without thinking about it. I understand the sentences of the President of the House, who says that the adoption of the Act on lobbying itself will in some way improve or improve the perception of corruption in that country. But if anyone in this country really thinks that the problem is the adoption of legislation, that the major lobbying and fundamental problems of this country are in the adoption of legislation, then I feel that it lives in a completely different country than I do. And it shows up today and every day. All these secret meetings do not concern legislation at all, but they concern who will choose vaccines, who will complete this or that. Those public contracts are the real, real problem. It's not legislation. It is not a legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, which is already so transparent today that many Western states may envy it. About the concept that was brought to us. The most depraved European model is chosen, which says there will be a lobbyist, there will be a lobbyist, and there will be confrontation between those who are telling the truth. I say that this model is contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Any request for any Member or Senator to report any contacts he has had with someone is contrary to Article 28 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which clearly states: both the Member and the Senator have the right to deny testimony about the facts he has learned in connection with the performance of his mandate, even after he has ceased to be a Member or a Senator. This is a provision which, of course, none of those government legislation has ever opened because they are not interested in the Constitution. Not to mention the groups that are pushing us to the wall here. But this is the provision that was written in that Constitution in 1992, and it was written quite deliberately so that the legislature would have protection from executive power and could obtain information other than that which was generously provided by the executive power. So he'd have a chance to meet and never have to report anything about it to anyone. He did not even have to witness before law enforcement authorities, for example. He could meet and be free to try to find out what was going on in that country, what was going on in that executive power. That was completely forgotten today. We're playing to report something to each other, lobbyists and lobbyists. Will there be an executive authority, a political party supervisor who will judge and who will say: Did you commit or did you not commit? It seems to me that if we accept something like this, we're completely out of our minds. Any one of us raises his hand for this bill, so I assume it means he doesn't want to sit here in the next House anymore, because this doesn't really work. It really doesn't work. And it is a direct way to discredit any legislature, but any legislature absolutely! A real criminal lobbyist is coming - and I really have nothing against lobbyists, it's been said repeatedly. I think they're groups that bring us some information, and it's up to us how we deal with that information and whether we use them for everyone's well-being or whether we let ourselves be talked into some partial, particular interest. Then it's all our fault. But the fact that he's bringing us the information is perfectly fine. And our goal is to know about these things from every angle possible and then try to make a fair, fair decision between them and seek, say, the greatest good or the greatest degree of consensus. But if we accept that a lobbyist comes to us, I'll write a report, he'll write another one, and he'll start harassing me and telling me how they wrote something different - I'll discredit every legislator like that. He discredits every lawman like that. And it won't be against the defense. And among those who actually get together wrong and get lobbied for things, they come in at the beginning, hand over two papers to each other that send the lobbyist and lobbyist to the other side, and everything will be fine. It is complete nonsense, what is presented to us in this form. Total nonsense. Report every lobbyist contact. I, well, may be one of those Members who are slightly more well-known in public, but I think that by far not as much as government members or people like Dominik Feri. In the morning, when I take the tram to work, or in the evening, when I come back, two or three times for that trip, someone stops me and tells me something. Most of the time, it's just a message like fighting or finally taking down this government. But sometimes they tell you something else. Is that a lobbyist contact? It's the citizen's wish. If you come to any professional association, to any professional association, I will pass through, 20 people will address me. I may have seen half of these people, I don't remember who they are, I'd have to ask for business cards at that point, and they'd tell me something. It should be done or done. Is it a lobbyist contact, or is it not a lobbyist contact in the concept of a government bill? I'm afraid it is. I'm afraid it is. But I'm just saying I'm not able to report anything like that because I wouldn't do anything but report it. [[10.50 hours]] If that's how the pirát want to do their homework, for me, let them do their homework. I said if they're gonna report like this about any contacts in the Chamber of Deputies, I'm gonna stop seeing them. They understood that there is no way to report on workplace contacts. But let everyone do it voluntarily. I just refuse to be ordered by the law, to approve it ourselves as fools, and to make sure that the Chamber of Deputies or some body of itss ignores it, but that the Office for the Supervisory of Political Parties takes care of it. I consider this to be a complete mistake, and that is why I am very unhappy that we are trying to do this here in such a so-called good faith - we will oblige the people, we will comply with the few nonprofit organizations that put pressure on us, those international organizations, the GRECO and others. They're gonna praise us in the papers the next day and we're gonna approve things that are completely unrealistic to us, or if they're feasible, they're really gonna destroy this job here and we're just gonna become a pure government tie, because we're not gonna meet anybody for sure, and we're just gonna vote, yes, we're gonna trust the government, or we're not, we're not gonna trust the government. Everything you present to us, we'll approve. I don't think this is right and good. I would consider it the best way to get the government's bill back to the government to redeploy. I don't want to rewrite it on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Despite what the President of the Chamber of Deputies has told us, he has a complex proposal prepared. And, of course, I joined the comments that were taking place and which were directed to the President, and I tried my positions in them. But it will be a lot of work that we don't have time for, and where I'm not sure at the end I'll have a result from which I can, with honesty and honesty, tell the Chamber of Deputies: you can vote for this now. I think the government should redo it. Nothing's gonna happen if we don't have the law in this term, so he'll be next. He's been promising himself for, like, 15 years. I don't think the world got any worse or better because we don't have a law on lobbying. And as the President of the House has defined here about lobbying in the legislative process. It would be much more interesting to deal with lobbying in the executive process, in the decision-making process, in the procurement process, in the listing of subsidies and other things. But, of course, that is what government officials and apparently the government as a whole are very afraid of, so it will not interfere. The legislative process is only affected at the level of the government and its members, or its advisors. That's all the politicians are responsible for, that's typical of the group thinking that pushes this. Officials are never to blame, even though everyone knows it's the easiest thing to come to a clerk and put their particular interest in it. When it comes to the government, no one does it anymore. There is talk of a lobbyist trail in a situation where the government itself admits to us that some bills are unable to draw up, for the last time, a construction law. And it's written for her in the alliance of the Chamber of Commerce with some law firm. I don't even think it's completely wrong, but - and now I don't want to go into the details of the construction law - but the fact itself suggests that everything can't always be done, but anyone who gets a bill from someone has to show some sort of lobbyist clue, and who actually processed it and what he got or didn't get for it. It's really dubious. I think that if we were to go along the way, and I hope that now both ladies and gentlemen will forgive me so that the wolf eats and the legislative process can go on, so let's say that it will exist, and so it is common in those countries that actually work in some way, that there will be some register of lobbyists, which can be fairly then wider and open, and there will be no endless argument about whether there should still be regions and municipalities, or whether there should be chambers established by law, or chambers established as a public character and more and more. Let's say there's a register of lobbyists, then we have to say that registering in such a lobbyist register brings something to those lobbyists, such as entering the premises of ours and the Senate, maybe entering some databases, that it'll be good for them, because otherwise no one will do it, and that they report, where appropriate, what topics they're dealing with, potentially who they've met and what they've been trying to push, or how you want to say it - what they've been trying to inform him about. I consider that to be the best possible measure. If there are any attempts in the law to regulate what we are supposed to do, I would consider it a complete fatal mistake for us to vote in favour. We just have enough laws here about conflict of interest, enough rules that tell us what we can do, what we can't do, where we can and mustn't accept any gifts, payments, rewards, what we have to report. So I really don't understand why we should still report, who we're meeting, and for what purpose we're meeting. I propose that we return the bill to the government because I really don't want to rewrite it here, on the floor of the constitutionally-legal committee and the Chamber of Deputies. If such a proposal had not been adopted, I suggest that we at least extend the deadline for this - here I will, of course, also speak in connection with it - the law of 20 days, because even this - the most correct one would be for the government to come up with a proposal that will regulate not only the legislative process, but also the executive process, will also regulate at least the regions and some larger municipalities, and will regulate in particular where the pressure actually appears and manifests itself today, and this is the issue of public money in all forms, including subsidies, the setting of programmes for the subsidies and other things. We can't work that out. Furthermore, it must be on a much wider layer of civil servants and also some of the representatives of the government. Then the law could be discussed. If we're left with just this minimalist, let's say, legislative version, then there's only one way to reduce it significantly and leave it really just a register of lobbyists. But once again, all those whose aim is not to influence the legislation adopted by Parliament at all, but whose aim is to influence, for example, the laws of the law, where I assure you that often the interest in how the law of the groups moving there will be is perhaps even greater than that of the law itself. I think we'll all remember the attorney's or executor's fees from the middle of the decade before last. Thank you for your attention. I suggest we get the bill back to the government for rework. If not, we'll extend the deadline by 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u13	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Mr. František Navrkal reports with a factual remark and is prepared by Kateřina Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u14	Well, thank you for your word. So I would only briefly respond by your means to my colleague Benda. Well, I'm interested in more things there, but I can't say it all in two minutes. As for the definition of lobbying, it's supposed to be a continuous activity. So when you meet someone in a tram, it doesn't apply. This also applies in the same way in today's legislation. And as for the public money issue, I totally, totally agree with you. So as to the fact that those offences are decided by the Office for the Management of Political Parties and the Movement, we have already discussed this. Likewise, in the case of the conflict of interest law, so the local authorities decide. We know this, for example, in the case of Prime Minister Babiš, who was prosecuted by the Municipal Authority in Černošice and the Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia Region. So I'm not saying it's like that to determine the authorities, but it's definitely not news. And as far as it's been blocking us or something, I really can't understand it as a pirate, because, as I said, we've been doing it for a long time, and it's definitely not stopping us from meeting people, meeting different associations, other organizations that maybe have some expertise, they have something to say about the performance of our public functions, and it doesn't cause us any major problems. Well, I'd have had enough, but I'm running out of time and I don't want to keep up. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u15	Thank you, Mr Navrkal, for keeping time on the point of fact. Marek Benda's point of view. And I have also signed up with priority rights for the debate. I'll hand over the meeting management. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u16	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will only briefly respond to my colleague František Navrkal, by your means. I was just pointing out that how do I know the tram or the meeting if that person is a lobbyist or isn't a lobbyist? Am I able to illustrate him at that point? Am I able to go to the list and find out who it was? That's a thing I don't know. The fact that it's a constant activity for him, that he's registering somewhere, well, that's on the other side. But how do I know who the other side is? I really can't tell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, you know, I think that our decision on this law, I have nothing against the Czech Republic having a law on lobbying. I really don't. But I think that every decision we make must be based on our respect for this document, the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Let's ask ourselves a question. Are we parliamentary democracies? Does Article 2 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic apply? Does Article 5 apply that the creation of constitutional bodies is given by free competition between political parties? Or are we some kind of executive republic where bureaucracy decides what it can and cannot do to people elected by the authorities? That's essential, absolutely essential. The establishment of the Office for the Management of Political Parties has already been a fundamental constitutional error. Because if we have this control entrusted to an authority that is not even a central government body, a quasi-office, it is constitutional nonsense. After all, we voted that we would at least entrust it to the Supreme Audit Office, which is enshrined in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. There was a point to that. Yes, we could separate the control of political parties' management from the Chamber of Deputies, we could entrust it to another, in the Constitution of a well-defined office, which is endowed with the control powers, in addition to the three fundamental pillars of legislative, executive and judicial power. But we've made a quasi-office that decides what to look like or not to look like a free competition between political parties. And the free competition of political parties creates a political regime. This is true and has been true since Montesquieu for centuries. And division of power is a fundamental principle of democratic rule of law. When I look into the law, I'm really sad. That's eintopf, because it's not goulash, it's got some rules, it's got to give the onions first, and then it's the meat. But this is complete nonsense. Like me, I really agree that lobbying needs to be dealt with in a legislative way. But if we deal with it contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, contrary to the division of power, we cannot make it a good and functional law. I rarely agree with Marek Benda on a political level, but here he was talking exactly about what the plane of the constitutional decision-making is. And that's true. This isn't about dragging political parties. This is about whether we are still holding that this state is a democratic rule of law and a parliamentary democracy. We made a fatal mistake once, and I'm happy I wasn't involved when we said, and it was the majority's wish that the President of the Republic would be elected directly. Yes, it was a decision, I respected it. But I warned very unpopularly at the time, because the media was pushing something completely different, that it was necessary to introduce a direct choice. But we have made a direct choice, and we have done nothing in the relationship between the President of the Republic, the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and the Government. Nothing. And now we're arguing about whether a directly elected president may have such powers or not. Nonsense. We should have made that clear before we did the intervention on the Constitution. I respect that, I am glad that we have a direct election of the President of the Republic, I go to those elections, I vote in those elections, but I cannot accept that we are still - what it is, seven years later - unable to give the direct relationship between the directly elected President, the Chamber of Deputies and the Government, or the courts, because we have not completed this step in order to maintain the parliamentary character of our Republic. The pressure on the half-president system is here, we all see it. And if it's left or right, that's not the point. The important thing is that we do not stick to the most basic constitutional articles. And I see very dangerous trends in the corruption, and so I repeat again, yes, I am in favour of the law on lobbying, but to really correspond to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. And what we cannot do is that those who are somehow forced by law into other responsibilities or rights to be built in a way that is lower than that position in the division of power. That's impossible. We have to see this very well, and we discussed it here as the first point of today's meeting, that if the jurisdiction gets out of hand, that the state of justice can be more dangerous than the state of police. Because in connection with the police and the state's attorney and the charges or the prosecution of one here, I still have courts that can fix this. But if the courts say, you're wrong, the law is wrong, and you make the law according to how we want it as a judge, we're gonna make the biggest mistake. Because the separation of those powers is most important in keeping the balance here, so that the nature, the parliamentary nature of the Republic, is preserved. Don't be mad at me, but this proposal doesn't answer. [[11.10 hours]] And she registered with the Bureau. You sure you don't mind? You don't mind humiliating those who come after us and answering the office that decides whether he likes you or not? I've used it before in the past, and I'll get back to it. One of the prominent officials of the prosecutor's system told me that a particular person had been charged, and the police were able to hold him twice in a row on their way to court, he didn't show up for the trial, he arrived late, and he had a sentence for missing. Therefore, for some people, whether they are Members, judges, whether they are prosecutors, there must be immunity against the intervention of foreign power in that power of another or third. That's the principle of immunity so that one power can't take advantage of its position against another power. And here we are preparing a law that says: an official will rule over who every four years goes before the citizens and folds his account. But the clerk doesn't file an account, it's protected by the Civil Service Act. And forgive me, the law didn't go well in 2014. Its predecessor, which was valid but not effective, has been a hundred times better since 2002. And I would hate to have to explain to the citizens: I'm sorry, I decided not to vote for him at the time, and I had good reasons for that. And they will ask me, "What did you say when you got out?" It's not enough to vote. Because awareness of the fundamental principles is the most important thing in every vote about every law. I agree that this bill cannot be introduced in its present form. And if the President of the Chamber of Deputies has said that there is a comprehensive amendment, that is why it is both for rejection and for re-evaluation. Because it is already the Chamber of Deputies, which basically tells the government: there is a fundamental mistake in this government proposal, there is a lack of respect for the division of power in this state. In that case, without distinction from the political parties, we must stand up for the power of the legislature, the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, as Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u19	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová is signed up with both a factual point and a debate. But you have the floor in the debate, no one else is making a statement with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u20	I still want to make a point of fact, Mr President, in this ongoing debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u21	You can make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u22	I must say that perhaps the most fundamental information that has been said here in this debate is, through the President's colleague and colleague, Madam Minister of Justice, the honourable Government, that Mr Marek Benda, after 30 years of parliamentary work in the House, is afraid that he will not recognize a lobbyist and confuse him in a tram with a voter. I think that's absolutely crucial, and that needs to be remembered. And Madam Secretary of Justice, that's a real threat. So that's the point. I'll go back to my originally prepared contribution. The law on lobbying, honourable colleagues and colleagues, as it has been submitted, is not perfect, as most of the laws which are submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. I must say that the question of how to join lobbying in the Czech Republic, in Parliament, how laws are or are not influenced, has been going on for a long time. Only I, for my career, take part in this debate in various forums, in different positions of professional and professional, for twenty years, whether it is a question of my work as Dr Motejl in the office of the Ombudsman, or in the legislation of the Senate's office, in the leadership of the Deputy Minister for Legislation and Human Rights, Vice-President of the Legislative Council of the Government or in years of professional activities in the expert commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government. From this point of view, from the professional, professional point of view, I must say that it is not an easy thing to find reasonable lobbying rules that will not make us slaves of paper and report, but will actually lead to a public debate on laws, on how things are to be organised in our country being conducted publicly, transparently. Anyone who comes up with an expert opinion has their arguments for this, whether it be groups of interest of all kinds that you can imagine, but that these interest groups have the courage to make a full public declaration to this activity and lobbying, they have strong arguments that do not have to hide from the public, on the contrary, they are interested in publishing them. And then, here in the Chamber of Deputies, in plenary, in committees, there can be a public debate by Members, which is a clash of fundamental arguments, of different views on the matter that we, Members and Members have. And none of us will take that responsibility, no law on lobbying, it's just our responsibility, our constitutional responsibility to consider, to consider all the arguments and, of course, to decide on new laws, changes to laws, voting. That's lobbying for me. And the fact that we do not have any rules at the moment is certainly wrong and we should agree on how such reasonable and honest rules for an open and transparent public debate on laws and on what groups of interest apply their arguments and opinions to influence laws, how to regulate them. As I have already mentioned, this responsibility is indeed ours, Members and Members, and I therefore agree with the previous speakers, and it is actually a constitutional matter. Because the approval of laws is Parliament's business, and the law on lobbying really doesn't change anything here. But what is important is, and it is also crucial, it is Parliament's matter and us as representatives of the people who have emerged from the elections. Lobbying is, therefore, some sort of influence on the outcome of what the laws of this country look like. Here it was, it is and it will be as it is in other countries. Lobbying will certainly not disappear or be restricted by this law. From my point of view, we should strive to find a consensus across the political spectrum in order to improve some quality, say, the "war of arguments" in order to achieve the most fundamental, correct and substantive outcome. It is also important, in my view, to make it clear who and how the law influenced, and it is so clear and transparent what purpose, purpose, result, and hence from this legislative footprint, if you wish, can also be read the consequences of this lobbying. And not only the law, because, frankly, the law is some kind of interplay in a better case of paragraphs, but also the result in practice, because that, frankly, is what it is about. And why is it important to know the legislative step and the result in practice? Well, for a simple reason. Because, of course, it is also necessary to be able to draw responsibility from this in a democratic society. This is important for democracy. By responsibility, I don't think of any lobbyist hunts at all, that's not the point. Responsibility, and it is good to point out, always rests on those who represent people. This means that we, Members and Members of Parliament, are on the basis of elections, and we vote, change, approve. And that transparent public control, that means our constituents - and you will probably confirm to your colleagues that you would hardly say that you are afraid or afraid of your constituents - that is absolutely irreplaceable in a democracy and democratic society in my opinion. It's our responsibility. And it will, as is common - no one has thought of anything better in thousands of years - which will be reflected in the results of the elections, in the evaluation of our voters in the following elections. [[11.20 hours]] I think that the law on lobbying will certainly, allow me to exaggerate, colleagues, it will be very lobbied, so we can try it in the public transparent debate already in the committees, but also in the House plenary. I'm sure he'll make a difference. And I believe that our goal is to ensure that the result is simply that the public arena on the approval of laws is to be public, that it should be clear who influences what, with what purpose and outcome. On the contrary, it does not weaken our constitutional role in any way, but if we do it right, the rules on lobbying should strengthen our constitutional role as representatives of the people, Members and Members. In advance, I have announced that, in the light of the debate that has been going on so far, I originally did not intend to do so, but in the light of the previous debate, I have announced that, as Chair of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution, I would like to order this Act on lobbying for our discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u23	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, co-workers, co-workers, so I'm listening to the debate here. Well, saying that a person who calls me on a tram is a voter is a bold statement. I don't think it has to be true at all, but of course it's a matter of opinion, maybe I misunderstood the lady. But let me say one thing here, and it's starting to be such a mess when he brings in some bill by first reading, and we already know it's wrong and we're gonna fix it. I think that this is a bad start in the legislative process and we should definitely not do this. It's just gonna be some paquilas again, we know it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u25	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u26	Mr President, thank you to the speaker, I will not question his thesis in any way. Just an explanation for the first point. I didn't think, of course, that there must be a voter Marek Benda on the tram, but all citizens have the right to vote, so that's where I meant it. And as for the other matter, I mentioned it, perhaps because I am a coalition MP, I mentioned it more mildly than my previous speaker. Yes, the law is not perfect. I also mentioned that this is not the first time and unfortunately not the last time. I just have to viciously add that I hope that the first law will not be a return to the recasting of the Act on lobbying, because it was offered, for example, much better by the law on construction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u27	Thank you. Mr Marek the Výborný will now be speaking in the general debate. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u28	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform very briefly about the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP on this government bill on lobbying. We, as KDU-ČSL, had the question of lobbying described in the election program in 2017. We have to regulate this matter in some way, not only on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but also on other institutions, and we consider it important. That's for starters. So it is not that we reject any regulation of lobbying. Finally, if we look at other countries of the European Union to the west of us, these systems, of course, work there and are functional. But what we consider to be very problematic and very controversial is the government press that has arrived here and which we are discussing today because, according to our conviction, in our opinion, and in the end, we have also presented it on the working group that was very problematic about this law. I have to join here, and it is clear here that this is indeed a question across what Vice-President Filip said and Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee of Marek Benda, it is necessary to weigh very carefully so that we do not get into conflict with the Constitution in this way. And that is why we are not prepared to support the text that is here in the form of the government press. It is even a question of whether, in the situation we are in, when we are dealing with covid, when there is a need to help small traders, service providers, when other important things need to be dealt with as a result of the current situation, if we are at a time when we are here to deal with the law on lobbying and related regulations. If that's the priority that's pushing us the hardest right now. Ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself that question and answer it. Is this really the key thing that needs to be addressed at the moment we have nine months left until the end of the parliamentary term? And it wasn't the opposition, it wasn't the opposition that hindered the negotiation of the law on lobbying. This was indeed a question of the priorities of the government coalition, the priorities of this government. It's a government bill on lobbying. I think it may have been over for a long time in some variant that will be reasonable, which will be constitutionally comfortable and which will deal with this matter in a way that does not cause a complete immobilisation of the legislative process. The idea that there will be registers here, that we will write down who with whom and how and so on, administratively it will totally immobilize the work of Members, Senators and others. I think that's a really desperate procedure. That's not the way to work. But at this point in time, do we really have to devote ourselves to the lobbying law in detail? I would very much welcome, ladies and gentlemen, if this House, with the same attention, approached laws that concern, for example, executions, insolvencys, child debts, etc. If we had this interest in addressing these key legislative changes. if we do this to support retailers, service providers at the time of the covid, etc. Well, that would actually make sense. In this sense, we will not prevent any further legislative regulation, as President Vondráček mentioned here, but this is a completely wrong procedure. The government here comes up with a fundamental draft of a government amendment to the law, or with a brand-new government proposal, and it also says we need to make it comprehensively, because it shows major problematic shortcomings. In my opinion, this is not the way a legislative process can be done. It's already very problematic in itself. And when my colleague Kateřina Valachová mentioned the construction law here, it's the same in pale blue. The same in pale blue. If the Minister, who presents such a fundamental standard at first reading, says a, and immediately says b, it is completely wrong and we have to do it comprehensive or complex, it does not matter, by amendment change, correct, so please nicely, this cannot be done. So these are the reservations we have about this government bill, especially the process. Because I do not want to repeat all these other objections here, they have already been heard from the mouths of opposition or pseudo-coal representatives of political parties in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u29	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u30	I must stand up for the Minister of Justice, because I dare say that thinking that the law on lobbying will not be the subject of major amendments and debates in the House is rather naive. On the contrary, the law on lobbying, which follows from the general debate, affects our fundamental constitutional rights and basically the principles of how legislative action works and how Members and Members should play their role in the Constitution. So this is where I'd stand up for the Minister of Justice. And I think there's no doubt that the debate in the House will be relevant. As for the other things, I will certainly take Marek the Výborný by your means, Mr President. Yes, let's finish the execution and ban child debt!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u31	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u32	Only very briefly by your means, Mr Vice-President. I didn't see it at all as some kind of attack on the secretary, no way. Because we all know, as we sit here, that this was a political assignment that was essentially handled by the Justice Department before Secretary Benešová arrived, and that history was well known. So that's how it was, and I'm glad we're gonna be dealing with fundamental things like execution, insolvency, and more. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u33	Thank you. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on this law for the Tricolore movement, and I would like to say our position. Laws such as "defendance is part of the prosecution" we completely reject. We will therefore not support this proposal. We will support both the motion to return to the recast and, if so, the motion to reject. We don't want a prosecutorial state to come into existence here. We are in favour of the rule of law, and we are in favour of democracy. The pillars of real democracy are too legislative and too judicial. The prosecution must be part of the executive power. So, as I said, we will support the proposals for recasting and rejecting. I find it absolutely absurd that we have an extraordinary meeting here today and we will actually learn here that this proposal is completely wrong and that there is also a comprehensive amendment on the table. I find that completely absurd, because we spend a lot of time here, and basically we learn that it's not even well prepared. So, as I'm saying, we're not going to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u35	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u36	Dear Members, I have expected that this will not be easy to come up with this law and that there will be mainly political will missing. And that's what we're talking about. Let's not talk about the law being unconstitutional, let's not talk about the law being poorly processed. Other states have it, and we're one of the last ones who doesn't have it here. So I expected trouble, but I didn't expect this kind of panic. It's hard to argue when expressions are used here as transparent terrorists and such equivalents. I think that the comprehensive amendment presented here by the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not because the law is poorly written and is contrary to the Constitution, but it is essentially about achieving a political compromise, that is what this was about. And that amendment essentially addresses most of the problems identified here by Mr Benda. The point is to give the rules of the gray zone that exists, and those negotiations that are weird and that we have condemned here, and to allow public control. That's all. We don't have the ambition to put it all on, I don't think that's gonna work. There's no need to extend the law to public contracts, there's a crime, there's no punishment. So think logically and please think again. They're criticizing us from Europe, putting us in connection with the so-called. Government of the law. And the rule of law is in connection with the fact that the Czech Republic will not receive subsidies. So think about it again before you raise your hand. And otherwise the House is, of course, a souvenir, the House will decide. And I'm not gonna shoot myself if he makes a negative decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u37	Thank you, Minister. That was the final word. And we have some proposals to deal with at this point in the vote. One, in particular. Mr Marek Benda, Mr Marek Benda, submitted a motion for repayment to the applicant for completion. The motion for rejection did not come up in the debate. And then we'll make up for it. with a proposal to extend the period within the committees to 20 days. [[Noise from the diaper.]] Yes, Mr Grospič... I don't have a motion to dismiss in my records. If the Member has told him, please keep us informed, let it be okay for the tape screen, if there is any confusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u38	Okay, Mr. Vice-President. I don't have a problem at all. I may have been a little hung up on that blouse. I suggested first rejecting the proposed bill, and if it doesn't pass, it's going to be a rework.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u39	Okay, so let's adjust the records that are here. Mr Grospič proposed a rejection in the debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the ordinary procedure, we will first vote on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I checked you all out, please log in with your cards again. And we are voting to return the proposal for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 79 Members signed in, for 24, against 20. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 82 Members registered, for 21, against 22. The motion was not accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee? No. We will therefore vote on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 83 Members registered, for 81, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committee to address this proposal. Mr Navrkal will speak with the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u40	Thank you for the floor. I would suggest ordering this press to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u41	Yes. Anyone else reporting for a suggestion? Yes, Mr. Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you all believe that the constitutionally-legal committee will deal with this somehow. But I feel like at least those key committees in the House that the lobbyists go to the most, they should take it, too. So I suggest that the agricultural committee and the economic committee take it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u43	Yes, there was a proposal for an agricultural and economic committee. Mrs Valachová with another proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u44	Following the general debate, as I have announced, please, colleagues, on the support of the commandment to the Permanent Commission for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-003-003.u45	A permanent Constitutional Commission. Anyone else reporting to the Committees or Commissions? No. So we will vote gradually on the proposals as they have been said. First of all, a proposal was made on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 85 Members registered, for 39, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. [[11.40 hours]] Next, we will vote on the commandment to the agricultural committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 8 registered 86 Members, for 28, against 15. The motion was not accepted. The next vote will be on the commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 9, 86 Members registered, for 31, against 3. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The Permanent Commission for the Constitution has been proposed. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 10, 86 Members registered, for 70, against 4. The proposal was adopted and the Permanent Commission for the Constitution will address this proposal. In the general debate, a proposal was made for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days. We will also deal with this proposal by voting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 11 registered 86 Members, for 73, against 3. We have approved the motion to extend the deadline. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done discussing this point. Now, let's look at the point.
