ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-007-011.u1	11. The draft law amending Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging and Amendment of Certain Laws (Law on Packaging), as amended /German press 679/11/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution to which the Senate rejected this bill has been delivered to you as House press 679/12. Mr Nytra is still ready, and I will first ask the applicant, Mr Richard Brabec, to comment on the Senate's resolution to reject the bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-007-011.u2	Thank you, Mr President. And that actually concludes the circulation package of four standards. Here I confess, but I'm sure Senator Nytra will say it, the explanation, here I confess that I was a little surprised in the Senate for plenary because both Senate committees that discussed the bill, the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment, as well as the Committee on Economics, Agriculture, Transport, recommended approving the bill under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies, but then the proposal was rejected at plenary. [[There's a very strong noise in the hall.]] I would like to say here what is also from the debate that was said there, I explained it in the Senate and ask you again to approve the parliamentary version again in the Chamber of Deputies, because I am convinced that this version not only introduces the European transposition into the Czech legal system, but quite fundamentally improves the things relating to packaging. In a few months' time, I hope, we're going to have that follow-up law banning disposable plastics in the House, and this is basically the base on which this law is going to be built, and he's going to introduce quite revolutionary concepts like ecomodulation, that is, how manufacturers, importers will have to take into account the life cycle primarily of packaging so that these packagings have as little environmental impact as possible and, of course, that those who made the packaging with the least impact would also benefit from it, and therefore, of course, we would improve further possibilities not only for sorting, which has already fallen, but especially for recycling, because we are doing great sorting today, but with recycling, of course, they still are. We talked a lot about authorized packaging companies there, and I recalled again in the Senate that the proposal that went from the House substantially extends the obligation of authorised packaging companies to submit their management and reported data to thorough audits in order to ensure control, which is really not so much today. Furthermore, other obligations are laid down, restrictions on these companies, such as a ban on waste management or on the obligation to create a financial reserve. And there are also new or new, higher recycling targets for individual materials and overall recovery of packaging waste. This means that we have talked about this here several times, I am convinced that the amendment as it went from the Chamber of Deputies, which, thanks to a number of your amendments, has certainly been improved in terms of perhaps even better possibilities for voluntary backup of returnable bottles, that the proposed amendment does indeed provide a guarantee of better handling of packaging waste, with an emphasis on the extended responsibility of manufacturers, as well as increased transparency in the functioning of authorised packaging companies. And I'm just saying again, because the debates were big, that the proposals that went on the terms for some other authorized packaging companies were far more stringent than those that eventually were chosen by the Ministry of the Environment. For example, from the Ministry of the Interior, from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, from the Confederation of Industry there were even much more stringent requirements for authorized packaging companies from the point of view of competition, than they were finally accepted here. So even in this case, I consider the proposal to be a good compromise, and I would ask you to vote so that, of course, we can confirm again the version that came from the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-007-011.u3	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco, and before I give the floor to Senator Zdeněk Nytr, I state that there has been an apology by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová for work reasons until the end of today's meeting day. I will now ask the senator to justify the rejection of the Senate. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-007-011.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not originally want to quote the European directive, but the Minister urged me to do so by his speech, because the directive directly states that these systems, the systems of recovery, collection and recovery, must be open to the participation of economic operators in the sectors and competent public authorities concerned. Yes, the Minister mentioned here that there were proposals for even stricter conditions for authorisation. What's the situation on our waste market today? There is one authorized person, and according to our opinion, no other authorized person can become the second, third or fourth person. Because, according to this bill, the applicant for authorisation must conclude contracts with at least 25 percent of the municipalities with a minimum of 25 percent of the population. I don't really know the only mayor who would sign a contract with a company that doesn't yet have an authorization to ask for it. I really can't imagine how this could be realized. So in the Senate, the ambition was to change that, to adjust it, but we understood that in the 14 days we had, at most, three weeks to discuss, that's just not possible. And since the law is not entirely an umbilical cord attached to the three previous laws, it ultimately outweighed the surprising decision for the Minister to reject the bill. The reason for this was that it does not seem to us that in this Republic there can be, in fact - not de jure, but de facto - only one authorized person, even a new applicant for authorisation, must agree with the existing one. And she sets the rules. By the way, this provision has been challenged, as far as I know, by the Competition Authority in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-007-011.u5	I thank Senator Zdeněk Nytr and ask if Mr Elfmark, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, wishes to comment on the Senate resolution. He's not interested. My colleague, Ivan Adamec, is not interested in the economic committee. My colleague, Ivan Bartoš, for the public administration, I don't see him here, so I guess he's not interested either. In that case, I am opening up a debate. I'm asking who's applying because I don't have a written application. If no one reports, I will conclude the debate and we will proceed by taking the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, when the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed to adopt the following resolution. I'm gonna ask you to set up the kvora. I beg you to set the kvora to 101, because the senát rejected the proposal. Thank you. It's ready. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging and Amendment of Certain Acts, as amended by the House Press 679/11." [[Packaging law]] I've started voting number 25 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? [[Response from the O.R.]] Yes, I'm sorry, in that case, I declare vote number 25 misguided. I didn't respect the motion to withdraw, vote number 25 is misguided. I'm signing you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And before you come forward, the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-007-011.u6	Mr Vice-President, I beg you, when we havevorum 101, unsubscribing or unsubscribing has no meaning. So let's face it, if somebody doesn't know what they're voting on, that's why we didn't have enough advice, not because you didn't check out. I didn't hear anyone knocking about checkout. But even if the deal was 101, at least let's play fair here. I've seen a mess in the government's ranks. If you didn't have enough to say it, it's wise to say I'm sorry, we didn't have a deal, wait for the vote. That's normal. And we're not going to make up the reasons that the withdrawal was not granted at the time when the constitution was established by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-007-011.u7	Mr President, I understand you, but I am the request, although it was not loud, but it was implied by the Vice-President of the ANO club of my colleague Kubíček and I did not respect it. I acknowledged my mistake, so I said it before the vote was over. If you object to the President's procedure, say so and we will vote on it. If not, in that case, I'm saying that the status of the logged in is constant, that no one else is reporting in. And on the motion for a resolution that I will repeat: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging and Amendment of Certain Acts, as amended by the House Press 679/11." [[Packaging law]] I've started voting number 26 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 26, from 174 in favour of 109, against 9. The motion was accepted. I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you to the Minister of the Environment, thank you to Senator Nytr, who has spent about the longest time with us, and I'm done with item 11. The next item will be the item number
