ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u1	74. Members of Leo Luzar, Hana Aulická Jírovcová and Pavel Kováčik's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, as amended /German press 180/ - first reading prosit refer to Mr Leo Luzar as the appellant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u2	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a bill that could help thousands of people affected by execution, of course not backwards, but also allow citizens to look at the issue of how they are getting into execution, and could help partly as a small stone to finally break free from the easy decline of citizens into execution. Together with the plaintiffs, we propose to involve so-called law. financial loans. It's a terminus techicus that would make it easier to understand how easy it is at the moment in society to receive money. We have laws that regulate consumer loans, regulate mortgage loans, regulate all these funds that a citizen can acquire in the free market of funds or loans. But the basic problem with this is that we always pull the shorter end. We talk about the fact that a citizen is constantly being harassed, offered, imposed, and accepted. When we come up with some regulation and say, "This is regulation that should help it," those who should be affected by the regulation will immediately come up with a new name. They will immediately come up with a new product that circumvents the basic problem of the easy raising of money and the very difficult repayment of these funds to citizens who have received or obtained such a loan. Our proposal focuses on the fact that the basic condition for the success of this business with poverty and the attempt not to allow citizens to pay back is advertising. The basic problem of all those who provide such loan-lending, loan-lending, easy acquisition of funds is that they must be able to advertise so that those people know about them so that they can influence them and use them to force the loan on them in their own way. All this is happening under the impression of freedom of the media, freedom of speech, freedom to offer products in society. But the Czech law already knows the restrictions on advertising. He knows the restrictions in tobacco, he knows the restrictions in other products, alcohol and others that we could talk about here for a long time and we've been discussing for a long time. However, it does not know the restrictions on advertising financial loans. Surely you all remember and know from around you, when you turn on the TV, three young smiling citizens driving in the means of transport sing a tune and say how easy it is to get the loan! How easy it is to get it! And you can buy something with it that you just wanted! You know the other dozens of these ads that tell you how easy and easy it is to get the resources you need right now. And it is no longer loans in the order of hundreds of thousands, millions, but small loans built on the basis of CZK 20, 30,000, but it is no longer stressed, or small letters below is placed, what are the interest rates, what is the interest rate. I'm sure you've also come across the fact that it turns out that you have a zero interest rate written down. But it is no longer said what the fees are, and it does not stress the RPSN, which should appear as the basic figure of how expensive the loan is. And what happens if you don't pay back one payment? What happens if you don't pay the second payment? All those commercials are passing away. In the past, the Czech Republic has tried to prevent this from happening and has given advertising the need to provide this information. You know, if you look at an ad that shows up on the Internet somewhere, and you look for the terms of the loan, you see a pattern. Yes, the Czech Republic tried to go through this method and we found that it was not helping. That often the model example that appears on those loans is not real. You'll often find that those interest rates, which then, when you recalculate it into real form, do not correspond to how the loan was targeted. In other words, there is a distortion of the advertising market and a distortion of the minds of those customers that the loan is, after all, good, easy to repay. It's a huge failure of advertising agencies to carry them out. And unfortunately, we don't know any other way to operate on non-bank and banking institutions to be able to block their own appetites in some form, force money on people, but most importantly to cut them off for not paying back, and take extra money from them. We tried to appeal to the non-bank and banking sectors to adopt some codes to operate in some regime that would be more acceptable to customers. Unfortunately, this did not happen and does not happen in the Czech Republic. Therefore, we have decided to prepare a draft law banning, in its base point, the advertising of bank and non-bank financial loans, the purpose of which, or direct or indirect effect, is to promote favourable and easy acquisition of funds distributed through television and radio broadcasting or through information society services, periodic press, non-periodical publications, leaflets, posters or other printed matter, with the exception of publications and printed matter available in the commercial premises of banks, non-bank entities informing about the financial products offered. In my opinion, this quite wide range of banning advertising is very important. Because we've already encountered aggressive advertising in places where you wouldn't even expect it to be possible to get it. In doctors' offices, in sports grounds, on some occasion, where a lot of people are gathered, these banking and non-bank institutions are trying to take advantage of the fact that these people are there and offer them their financial products. And this is what we think is already getting behind the absolute edge of the serious efforts of these institutions to offer funds to citizens. These are the things that lead us to present this law. We firmly believe that The Chamber of Deputies will deal with this proposal by letting it read again because we think that Czech society deserves protection from these institutions. We also propose sanctions and, of course, adjustment, the part of sanctions that would concern these institutes. I would like to comment a little more on the Government's position on this proposal. The government has taken a neutral position on this, and I am very happy for that. And in the text, he is aware of the issue that this proposal is dealing with. It's a very hard market to regulate. We are all aware of this, and also my question to the Governor of the Czech National Bank, who was here during the previous appearance in this House when discussing his law, and when I asked him how the Czech National Bank, which should be a regulator, is able to regulate these matters, so in a way he shrugs his shoulders, because this market is a jungle that is directly dependent on supply and demand. And also, and that's the most important thing about advertising. Government legislation warns us that the proposed proposal introduces a new terminology into the Czech legal system. Yes, they are right, because financial loans in their character, as it is written, are not yet defined. But I can say for the petitioner that this is in a way also the intention of giving this terminology because we've been seeing that when the particular loan was specified, the loan, and it was pretty well specified, immediately after the approval of this law, all providers went into another model, called it different and tried to jump out of this regulation. You all remember very well the ban, which appears e.g. on packs of cigarettes - Smoking is bad for your health. At that moment, thousands of manufacturers came out, offering packaging so that it wouldn't be seen. In other words, this circumvention of the meaning of the law unfortunately also appears in this segment, which faces citizens as very serious, but also exploits its position, especially its financial position, and has a negative effect on the advertising market. We are aware that there will be a great deal of power against us that lives out of this ad. We are aware that there will be dozens of attacks on us as part of this proposal that we want to regulate something, but that will mean that advertising companies will lose a lot of advertising money. The market is a billion-dollar one in which we are moving, and the biggest contracting entity is the providers of such loans and loans, often hidden behind official institutes and banks. [[between]] [[13.50 hours]] Our proposal focuses on both the non-bank and banking sectors. And I firmly believe that, as part of the discussion of this point, you, colleagues, will also forget what we normally perceive and read in the media, we can see on the Internet, TV flows to us, and you will be right that the segment of offering those fast, simple, easy-to-repayable small loans that are constantly showing off to us is very, very dangerous. And when you're talking to people who wouldn't normally jump on that principle of advertising because they're aware of the risks, they just get into some financial distress, even with small means, and they just don't see any other way, and they're saying, it's easy, even if it's written there, zero interest, I can do it, and then they're wondering, out of the twenty thousand crowns they borrowed for, say, household equipment that had a malfunction, they suddenly get into a debt trap. I've been talking for a long time, I'm sorry about this, but it's a topic that I think deserves the debate, and it should be the first step that we should be able to deal with in the fight against the problems this company has, which are the problems of execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u3	Thank you, and before I give the rapporteur's word to bring us into this law, I will introduce you to the pardons. Mr Mašek apologises from 13:30 a.m. to the end of the period for working reasons, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologises from 13:30 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. And one more, Mr Dvořák apologises from 13:45 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. Is the Member claiming priority rights? Yes, to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to report that I voted against the last 203 vote, and I wanted to vote in favour. And I'm not questioning the vote. It's just for the stew record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u5	Thank you. This was for the tapestry, and now Mr Berkovec has the floor to bring us into the present law as rapporteur for the first reading. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day, good Friday afternoon. Allow me a few words on this bill, on this House press number 180. I completely understand the human and social dimension of the motivation for this law, and I totally agree with it. As a person who studied and then worked professionally in advertising and promotion, I also have to identify with the government's comments. Finally, as a member of our membership club, I also have to respect the diction of existing related laws and judgments of the relevant European institutions, which is sometimes difficult to reconcile, you all know that very well. In this case, the emergence of a solitary precedent would trigger a chain reaction in a legal environment that would not contribute to consumer protection. Moreover, our continental legal system is not set up for this system of Anglo-American law. Otherwise, the history of advertising and promotion has an excellent level and rich history in our country. Just allow a short tour into this famous history. Our country was the world leader, for example, at the EXPO 58 World Exhibition, visited by 42 million people, out of this 6 million exhibition. Czechoslovakia has won a gold star and another 13 awards. The best pavilion was declared our Czechoslovak one, by the authors of František Šubr, Josef Hrubý and Zdeněk Pokorný. Attention was aroused, among other things, by ambitious projects by Laterna Magik or Polyekran Josef Svoboda. In our country, for example, it was project Exponata 1964 at the international trade fair in Brno, promoting mining machines. After 1989, however, there has been a completely impeccable development of advertising, or such a pasquila as I call advertising, and a violation of all formal, content and ethical standards. And of course an unprepared citizen fell for all these tricks. For example, only the Czech lottery terminal and related matters that de facto cost us the house of the Black Mother of God and the Palace of the Hyberns. And another and another. Of course, this has established unwritten standards and practices that survive to this day. This, for example, has to do with billboards on motorways, when long-term, unilaterally advantageous contracts were concluded during the 1990s, which still complicate liquidation and threaten arbitration for our state. And they are, and will be, a financial burden, because in many cases the liquidation costs will also go to the expense of the state. Otherwise, I am not going to read the Government's position here; my fellow Member, Mr Luzar, has already spoken of it, the comments. So thank you for your precious attention. I think that we should certainly deal with this House's press at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u7	I also thank you, and all I have to do is open a debate in which I have three entries at the moment, which you can get to know on the board. Mrs Němcová is the first to sign up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have only about a few minutes until the end of today's meeting day, I presume. I will try to be brief and introduce you to the position of the Civil Democratic Party on this bill. I will begin by saying that, after discussing our club, we are opposed to this proposal, and I therefore officially propose that it be rejected at first reading. Now, allow me to make a few comments. The first concerns more the process of negotiating the laws that we witness during today's day. A moment ago, the previous point, which dealt with insurance against public health insurance, was commented by the government with its neutral position. She therefore gave us her position in the Chamber of Deputies as neutral. Finally, the Minister of Health spoke out here with an absolutely fundamental position against the proposal. So I would expect it to be discussed in some way in the government, and the House will get some really clear government position. But I want to say and to call it a good thing that at least the Minister of Health was here, he attended the debate, both parties for and against could make their arguments, and the House heard a qualified discussion on this subject. Now we are at the point at which the government once again gives a neutral position, even though in this comprehensive justification at our disposal, it lists one serious reservation after another, from which the logical conclusion would have to be that it is against this bill. But she won't do it, and she'll give a neutral opinion. Then, with such a special attitude, I also noted the rapporteur's statement, which says that from different perspectives it would be both in favour and against. Okay, I will accept that as his position, but for the Chamber of Deputies, the government has done no work in this case to be a measure of how it approaches this proposal. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] And on top of that, I didn't send anyone here to stand up for the law. With all due respect, Minister Brabec, I am very pleased that he participated in the entire meeting today, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Regional Development, was also present, but neither of them, I suppose, has the competence to be responsible here to assess everything that the proposal contains. After all, the appellant, Mr Luzar, is based in particular on the question of execution and the social issue, linked to the decline of people who, if they succumb to advertising and take on more commitments than they can then fulfil, are in very endless situations of life. I would expect the Secretary of Finance to be here. [[14.00 hours]] They were mentioned here - a new instrument - I think it's supposed to be called financial loans, so I would expect him to take a stand on it. I would have expected it here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u9	Madam, I apologize, but the noise in the hall has reached a level where I must interrupt and call on my colleagues to remain calm. On the other hand, we only have one minute left, so I would suggest that I just interrupt you and you finish your speech the next time we get to discuss this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u10	I have no problem with that, Mr Vice-President, but I would also like to have a more consistent position from you, because I think that last Friday or the previous Friday, you pointed out that Friday is not the day we finish at 14:00, and you led the House to the fact that the negotiations are until 7:00 p.m., so I would expect you to do the same. I have absolutely no objection to the House's agreement to end today at 2:00 p.m., but it should have been said at the moment I started, or before you called on us who signed up for the debate before you invited us to speak. I will accept your decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u11	I understand. Of course, I agree that the day of the hearing is up to 21 o'clock and laws can be discussed by 19 o'clock. However, in general, it is a custom that we have so far observed that today ends at two o'clock. It depends if the House is calm enough to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u12	Given that, Mr Vice-President, I was at a stage when I criticized the absence of ministers, even the Minister of Justice, who else does the area of execution belong to? Not even the Finance Minister - who else owns the area of potential loans, a new instrument in the financial market? If they are not here and cannot, in fact, participate in this debate, I consider this debate to be an inadequate, inadequate, undignified Chamber of Deputies. And I think it's best that we end this debate now, because it can't lead to any reasonable outcome. However, I strongly wish to say that I reject the Government's position on the course of the House of Deputies' negotiations. That the Prime Minister - and the fish smells from his head - will say he won't go to the House because it's not his job, it's his oral questioning, so I think the government has translated it so that they won't participate in the House's work if it's not right for them or they don't want to do it. I consider this abnormal, and I call on the Bureau of the Chamber of Deputies to call on the Government to carry out its duties, including participation in the House's meetings, as the Government is responsible for its activities in the Chamber of Deputies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-011-074.u13	Thank you, too. And as I've announced, we can only continue if there's enough atmosphere to continue. Because I'm not even sure if we have a full enough O.R. Given the challenge of the presence of ministers, I think there is a moment when we interrupt the House's meeting and continue on a variable week on Tuesday, that is, February 11, if we should continue basically according to this currently approved programme, that is, this point. Thank you and have a nice weekend. So let's continue with 11. Two o'clock.
