ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u1	42. Government bill amending Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging and Amendment of Certain Acts (Law on Packaging), as amended /German press 679/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be given by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm watching the ruthlessly passing time, so I'll be faster with the opening words. The last of the four is the packing bill. I will just remind you very briefly that it is not only a transposition of a directive of the European Union or a directive of the European Union to a package called. The circular economy, but it also puts into practice a number of specific incentives and knowledge that we have accumulated in all this time - and not just us, but also other players in this packaging market. This is a solution called. ecomodelling means taking into account the environmental impact of packaging. This is an extension of the obligation of authorised packaging companies to submit their management to audits, statutory audits, and, of course, other measures relating to increasing transparency in the efficiency of the activities of authorised packaging companies. This is a solution to the situation where more authorised packaging companies operate on the market. There are also new, more ambitious targets for the recycling of individual materials and, of course, it was also a debate on backup, compulsory or voluntary, and a number of other things. Again, I would like to appreciate the very interesting expert debate in the various committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 679/1 to 8. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr František Elfmark, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Rapporteur. News report at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u4	Thank you for your word. I would like to say for the Committee on the Environment that we discussed this House Press 679 13. 5. on the committee and it was basically in an emergency period, so the committee was not public, at the 27th meeting of the committee. Nineteen amendments to the Committee on the Environment have been tabled to this press. These proposals concerned mainly the collection network for recovery, its density and parameters, the conditions for the creation of new authorised companies, the conditions for the operation of authorized companies and the possibility of backup of beverage packaging. In total, five amendments were adopted by the Committee in this House Press, and the Committee adopted the following resolution on this House Press. After the statement by the Deputy Minister of Environment Berenika Peštová, the report by Mr František Elfmark and after the debate by the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Point 15 of Section 10 shall be added at the end of paragraph 2, this obligation shall not apply to returnable backup packages. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Point I (17) is replaced by the 17. In Article 13, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) read: The conclusion of a contract to ensure the fulfilment of the obligation to recover and recover packaging waste pursuant to this Act, hereinafter referred to as a contract for combined transactions, with only one authorised packaging company, is § 16, in relation to all packaging placed on the market or put into circulation, does not apply with regard to the returnable backup packages for which these obligations can also be fulfilled in accordance with Section 13 (1) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) or the conclusion of a contract for combined transactions with an authorised packaging company, providing combined transactions exclusively for returnable advance packages. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Point 4 is replaced by the following: in point 48, the words A3 are deleted; Article 4 (1) (a) Article 1 (1) (49) shall be replaced by the words and the words A3 shall also be deleted. Point 6 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. In Article 50, the words "four' and "seven' shall be replaced by "four' or "seven'. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Point 55 (a) of Article 18 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) 6 the words or a member of the collective system operator under the End-of-life Act shall be deleted. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Point 11 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the following: This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Point 12 of point 62 of Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) Article 4 (1) (a) (i) number three is replaced by number four. Article 4 (1) (a) I. 62 in § 21 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (j) the words and their notification shall be inserted after the words of the keeping of the records. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. This Decision shall enter into force on the The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Point 16 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the following: I. 66 in § 23 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) in the case of cooperation of an authorized company with municipalities under contract with them, only the number of collection points in each municipality shall be deleted and notified to the Ministry of the Environment. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21 to supplement this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance (a) word A replaces with a comma. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and (b) the period shall be replaced by a comma and the following points shall be added: (c) and (d) read: (c) the cargo which the authorized company has incurred on: 1. the collection and recovery of waste from packaging, originating from collection points, classified in the municipal waste management system, set up by the municipality and the provision of the collection network; 2. the collection and recovery of waste from industrial packaging; 3. sorting of waste from packaging; 4. direct support for recycling and recovery of packaging waste; 5. registering packaging and packaging waste and reporting them. 6. informing consumers; 8. verification of data pursuant to § 23a. 7. here was skipped, administration, and is supplemented; 9. taxes and charges. Under the handwriting. (d) setting the prices of combined filling for each type of packaging. Only verification of correctness is required in this verification. The Commission shall be empowered I, point 120, shall be replaced by the word; or II. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment; and IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations. That'll be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u5	Thank you. Now, I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ivan Adamec, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Ivan Bartoš, take the floor gradually, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I will be very brief. At its 42nd meeting on 10 June this year, the Economic Committee adopted a resolution on House press number 679, which recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the interpretation, discuss the House and approve the House press 679 as amended by the Government Bill. Then it is the authority of me and the authority of me and the authority of the chairman of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u7	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur, Ivan Bartoš, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which was therefore not a committee of guarantee, discussed this press at its 37th meeting on 16 February 2020. The debate was fruitful, my intervention of this press and then of individual municipalities and others, but there was an agreement that all amendments would be tabled to the Committee on Guarantee. The Committee therefore took its 37th meeting after the reasoning of Mrs Ing's draft. Berenika Peštová, PHD, Deputy Minister of the Environment, and following Mr Bartoš's report and after the debate adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the text presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u9	I thank you, and before I open the general debate, I will read Mrs Hyťhová's apology from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today from 18.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. I am opening a general debate in which I have Members enrolled, Mr Elfmark will be the first to speak, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, even in this last House press, I would like to remember the most pressing areas which this House press now contains. The amendment to the Packaging Act brings us mainly recycling targets for individual materials, and in order to achieve them, we simply need to improve sorting and recycling. I've already mentioned it in my opening statement. [[18.40 hours]] If we really want a circular economy, we should try to meet the targets, for all materials. That is why I personally do not support the exemption to aluminium. This material is also produced in the Czech Republic relatively large quantities, while the production of aluminium from virgin raw materials, i.e. from bauxite and cryolite, is a very difficult process, both energy and water consumption and the pollution generated by it. Production of toxic sludge. The use of recycled aluminium, on the other hand, is much less harmful to the environment. That's why we should recycle aluminum to the max. Support for recycling through the disposal of recycled products must also contribute to making recycling targets easier to achieve. There must be greater use of recycling in products and, last but not least, lower production of waste of these materials, which can also help manufacturers achieve smarter ecodesign of products and, for example, reducing packaging. I'm sure you all know that if you e.g. You're buying some detergent, so there's a lot less of it than the wrapper. And about, for example, the boxes that you get in the mail from some companies or some e-shops, I prefer not to mention. We should support investment in recycling capacities in our territory, as it is not acceptable for us to deal with recycling by transporting our waste to Asian (?) or an African country where we have no control over what is happening to it, and it often ends up in nature. If we recycle with us, we will also reduce the necessary transport and associated pollution. In order to achieve recycling targets, we also need to improve sorting. One way to improve the sorting of beverage containers can also be to back them up. What are my reasons for supporting voluntary backup? Based on experience from abroad, where backup of single-way beverage packaging already works, here I just want to remember that only PET bottles are still resonating in the media, but we're also talking about aluminium packaging. Where does it work? For example, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Croatia, the Netherlands, Iceland, Israel. I am of the opinion that backup can increase the proportion of sorted beverage containers. That means they won't end up so often in bulky waste, or worse in nature. And thus the share of their recycling. Packaging will not only be more available, but will be in good condition and ready for recycling. Furthermore, I promise myself from backup that manufacturers will force the ecodesign of their products, in particular, focus on their easy backup, as simple as possible the possibility of recycling and the use of more recycling in products. I may also naively hope that backup will make consumers think about the amount of packaging we all carry home from the store, and some decide to limit the purchase of bottles and cans. On the contrary, I do not agree with the argument that people will not be willing to sort another raw material separately. The amount of various refined materials has increased over the last few years from the basic three, which is, of course, plastic, paper and glass, to beverage cartons, small metals, biowaste and, for example, in many cities of oil. People are used to sorting, and I don't suppose that's what this is supposed to be about. Of course I'm aware of the risks. Cleaner nature without discarded packaging guarantees rather a higher advance, which will motivate consumers to return the bottle to the store. However, this can bring too much increase in the price of drinks. It is also not guaranteed that in the Czech environment with the introduction of backup, the behaviour of both producers and consumers will change, just as it happened in Germany. Since plastic sorting works quite well with us today, the difference in the amount of sorted packaging after the introduction of backup would probably also not be as large and effective as in the countries I mentioned a while ago, where before the introduction of backup there was no system similar to our colour container system. There is also a risk that people, as a result of focusing on backup packaging, will stop trying to precisely sort out the unsupported ones. That is why I am more in favour of the amendments that allow so-called. voluntary backup and not mandatory. When time tells how the market will react to this system, how it will affect consumers, and what part of beverage manufacturers will even decide to go backup. Only then can we draw conclusions from our environment on the basis of current statistics and analyses and think about further steps. In addition to the subject of backup, this House's packaging press also addresses the expected entry of new authorised packaging companies into our monopoly market so far. I consider this to be necessary, because the monopoly should not work in waste management. That is why I was unpleasantly surprised by the conditions granted to the new entities, which, as set up in the government amendment, are almost impossible. For example, the requirement for contractual collateral of 25 per cent of municipalities in the Czech Republic before authorisation is granted is at the limit of fulfilment, let alone some amendments that make this requirement even more stringent. I am, of course, in favour of full coverage of the territory, but not at this stage of authorisation. Another such requirement is the requirement for financial collateral, which is unjustified and very high. It is also problematic, for example. participation in authorisation procedures where I do not see the reason why anyone other than the applicant should be involved. I have tabled a total of nine amendments to this House of Press, and I would like to introduce them to you now, as I have also done in previous Houses of thousands. The first amendment addresses recycling targets for aluminium. I'm presenting it with my colleague Balcarová. Article 6 of Directive 94/62/EC, as amended by Directive 2018/852, provides for the required extent of recycling and recovery of packaging waste, is implemented by adapting Annex No 3. In the case of the scope of recycling for aluminium packaging waste, a delay in the deadline for achieving the objectives in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be applied in the Government's draft law in the framework of implementation. 1a Article 6 as it has been assessed that this material is at the greatest risk of failure to meet the objective. However, the Czech Republic boasts that we are already fulfilling the recycling targets today, asking for an exception to targets where we are afraid to meet them. This shows the non-functionality of the existing system, which produces sub-average results in the re-collection of aluminium. I call for the amendment to maintain the original recycling values required by the European Union, which is 50 per cent for aluminium in 2025 and 60 per cent for 2030. This is based on experience, when large companies start intensively using aluminium as an alternative packaging for plastics. Production of aluminium will increase significantly and therefore it is necessary to set up an effective collection system as soon as possible. I know there's a way that this thing and the issues are already being dealt with here, so maybe we're on our way. The next amendment concerns the abolition of the obligation to include collection points in the community system and I re-submit it to my colleague, Dana Balcarová. The obligation to include packaging collection points in the municipal system on the basis of a contract with the municipality prevents the development of other, new methods of packaging recovery. For example, this is the case. about waste collection systems directly from the apartment, which can serve as a substitute or extension of the door-to-door system in buildings where it cannot be operated effectively and where classical collections can no longer be expanded, for example in panel houses. This is especially the case when the backup system will take the form of an individual system, where not only the municipality's consent but also the contract with the municipality will be needed. If the municipality does not agree, the service cannot be carried out. For example, if there was a backup system and there was a backup packaging machine in the grocery store, there would have to be a contract with the municipality for such an automaton. If it wasn't, the trader couldn't have realized this method of collection and couldn't have placed the vending machine in the store at all. Therefore, in this proposal, I propose to abolish compulsory inclusion in the municipal system. [[18.50 hours]] Another House press, which I also present together with Dana Balcarová, concerns the possibility of concluding a contract with more authorized companies. [[Amendment]] In the draft law, the producer is obliged to conclude a contract with a single AOS on all types of packaging. AOS is a shortcut - authorised packaging company. It cannot choose to deal with different types of packaging with different AOSs. That provision limits, without justification, the obliged entities to cooperate with only one authorised packaging company. The reasons expressed in the explanatory memorandum do not outweigh the right to freedom of business and independent decision-making, in addition, the provision is in internal conflict with Section 17 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 a law in which the government envisages the establishment of an authorised packaging company providing an association of transactions exclusively for the refundable backup packaging, while the proposed provision directly excludes the creation of such packaging company. Therefore, I propose that this obligation be abolished by the manufacturer. Another House press concerns the reduction of the necessary financial collateral for applicants for authorisation, and I also present it with my colleague, Dana Balcarová. That provision limits the new applicant for an authorised packaging company and, without justification, requires financial collateral for an economically unacceptable period. The extension of the requirement to demonstrate financial collateral for the first three years places a disproportionately high barrier to the entry of new authorised packaging companies on the market. Another amendment concerns the requirement for contractual provision of the collection network and I also submit it with my colleague, Dana Balcarová. The new applicant for authorisation of the packaging company must submit contracts with 25 per cent of the municipalities in the Czech Republic before submitting the application and granting the authorization. In view of the condition where it is not possible to determine precisely the final scope of the conditions until authorisation is granted, as these are influenced in a non-negligible manner by the administrative procedure, the applicant cannot submit a contract to the municipality which would comply with future conditions of authorisation. Similarly, the municipality's representative is unable to sign any contract with an entity which is not entitled to enter into business in an area to which the contract should be signed. This requirement is factually impossible and constitutes an insurmountable barrier to the entry of other authorised companies into the market. My next amendment, which I also propose with my colleague, Dana Balcarová, concerns the launch of the ban to be a shareholder or partner of more collective systems. It is possible to agree with the restriction that one obliged person cannot be a shareholder of several authorised packaging companies. However, it is unfounded and unfounded that the compulsory person cannot be both a shareholder of an authorised packaging company and a shareholder or a member of a collective system, such as electricity or tyres. The amendment to the law limits the freedom of business under constitutional order. The amendment of this provision interferes with the entrepreneurial freedoms set out in constitutional order. There is no relevant reason to limit shareholder rights. Interest in this regulation does not outweigh the right to free entrepreneurship. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Another House press, which I present, together with my colleague Balcarová, is working with more authorized companies - supplementing the cost assessment. That provision limits, without justification, the obliged entities to cooperate with only one authorised packaging company. When we look at it, first of all, the reasons expressed in the explanatory memorandum do not outweigh the right to freedom of business and independent decision-making. Second, the provision is in internal conflict with § 17 para. 4 a law in which the government envisages the creation of a packing company providing combined transactions exclusively for the returnable backed-up packaging, while the proposed provision excludes the creation of such an authorised packaging company directly. A mandatory person, an undertaking placing the packaging on the market or placing the product on the market, would not be able to choose for its individual packaging the authorised packaging company will choose, for example, one for plastic packaging, the other authorised company may choose on paper packaging. This is a major problem when an authorized packaging company is created for backup packaging. Then the obliged person would not be able to fill the single unreserved packaging in the context of the combined supply with one packaging company and the backed-up packaging with the other. In the case of several authorised packaging companies, the amount of the costs incurred by municipalities for the operation of the packaging recovery system should be provided by an independent body, in accordance with European legislation. Such an independent person is, as I propose in this amendment, and I think it should be, the Ministry of the Environment and not just one designated authorized company, as is currently in the bill. Another amendment, which I also propose with my colleague, Dana Balcarová, is devoted to participation in the authorisation procedure. The provisions which specify in the Act as parties to the authorization proceedings all the authorised companies providing for an association of transactions in relation to packaging covered by the procedure for granting or amending the authorization, and the applicants applying for authorisation in relation to the packaging covered by the procedure, are non-competitive, since it allows market competition to have unlimited access to detailed information on internal processes, strategies, concepts and financial information forming the commercial secrets of the party who initiated the administrative procedure, irrespective of the factual and legal form of its protection of business secrets. In addition to the possibility of accessing future or current competitors to the business secrets of the applicant, the knowledge of detailed information may lead to market influence or influence of administrative decision-making by future or current competition. At the same time, the administrative procedure may be effectively blocked. Therefore, I propose to define a range of participants in all administrative proceedings concerning authorisation only to the applicant. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] The next amendment, which I propose with Mrs Pekarová Adamová, concerns voluntary backup. The amendment addresses basically three basic areas. The first area - allows the creation of backup bodies, which will operate under conditions different from classic authorised companies, will not be bound by conditions such as the minimum density of the backup network. Secondly, it prevents discrimination against small and rural outlets by producers of beverages and, thirdly, requires the separation of backup systems from the collection system of other packaging waste, both organisational and, in particular, financial, since the advance funds belong to consumers and must be clearly separated from other funds. In view of some foreign experience, the development of returnable backed-up packaging may also bring some disadvantages in terms of rural supply and small shops. This is particularly true for automated means of buying returnable packaging, which are carried out only in larger stores with sufficient space for installing vending machines and on condition that there is a purchase of a significant amount of refundable backed-up packaging. In these cases, according to foreign experience, special rewards or advantages are granted to operators of larger shops and, where appropriate, to operators of shops equipped with vending machines by persons placing packaging on the market, in particular plastic packaging. However, this leads to discrimination and harm to small businesses, especially in rural regions where the position of sellers is most sensitive. This discrimination is prevented by the proposal. The proposed legislation correctly limits the possibility of taking responsibility for the withdrawal and use of packaging only to the State authorised entities. However, this concerns the possibility of creating bodies to ensure the purchase of backed-up packaging, for example by backing up PET bottles. The proposed resolution allows producers of beverages, but also other goods to create any body that would ensure the purchase of such packaging throughout the commercial network, without restricting the form and operation of that body to the conditions laid down for authorised packaging companies. This gives manufacturers the opportunity to collectively address the issue of backup packaging. [[19.00 hours]] The authorised company operating the back-up system is the owner of a large number of funds which de facto belong to consumers and are to be returned to them during the purchase of packaging. Such funds should not be jeopardised by other waste activities of an authorized company. Therefore, the good practice of other European Union countries should be respected, where such a system of backup of returnable packaging is always financially and organisationally separated from the single-way packaging collected in the form of sorted collection. The proposed restriction does not limit the authorised company in any way to its use -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-011-042.u11	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. It's 7:00. I'm interrupting this point. I'll read an apology. Mr Radovan Vích apologizes today from the Chamber of Deputies meeting until the end of the day for health reasons. At this point, I am interrupting the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday, June 19th, at 9 a.m., when we will continue with the third reading of the Houses of Press 673, 453 and 514. And I would remind you that tomorrow, Thursday, June 18th, the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening, everyone.
