ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u1	246. Information of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment on the solution of bark sludge, damage caused by large-headed beekeepers and overgrowth of field vole At this point, I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec take the floor gradually. I will say for the record that Mr Julius Špičák will vote with the replacement card number 18. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members, fellow Members. I would like to appear before the esteemed Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after more than a year and a half from the date on which you dealt with the common information of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment on bark sludge in the Czech Republic during the 16th meeting on 10 July 2018. I would very much like to appreciate that the ongoing barking disaster did not become the subject of the past, but that it was The Chamber of Deputies not only dedicates this to the professional but also today, in its consequences, to the social issue. I would very much like to take this opportunity to provide information on both the current situation and the steps taken by the Ministry of Agriculture during the period from July 2018. I consider it necessary, first of all, to provide a year-on-year comparison of the bark situation of 2018 and 2019. Although the sumary data for 2019 are not yet available, it can be roughly stated that year on year, i.e. compared to 2018, there has been a further deterioration in the calamity situation in the forests. Only in forests owned by the state and in private forests, where the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic performs the function of expert forest economy, 60 percent of barkwood was harvested in 2019 more than in 2018. We assume that the volume of barkwood extracted for the whole Czech Republic will exceed 18 million cc's, which will be at least 5 million cc's more compared to 2018. The total volume of wood that was attacked by bark in 2019 can be estimated at approximately 30 million cc, which is 40 percent more than the volume of attack in 2018. At the same time, the area affected by the calamity was widened, the crustacean situation deteriorated in virtually all regions except the capital city of Prague and the regions of Moravian-Silesian, Olomouc and Zlínský. The worst situation in 2019 was in the Vysočina Region. [[11.50 hours]] As I said, the extent of the crustacean calamity progresses, and the demands on the conditions for its control, whether on human, processing or storage capacity, are also increasing. The Ministry of Agriculture over the past period, i.e. for a year and a half after the last meeting, the implementation of emergency measures for the entire chain of activities related to mining, transport, storage and rendering of calamity wood. All of these measures are being implemented, and of course some of them are not quite exhausted or used up the potential that they offer us. As in the already mentioned meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in July 2018, I would now concentrate on the most fundamental problems of the circuits, as is related to the disaster management process. As far as the monitoring of harmful agents is concerned - I will start with a large head bee - so in connection with the reduced resistance of forests due to drought we register an increase in the occurrence of plant pests of individual trees. Monitoring The Ministry of Agriculture provides through the Forest Protection Service, expert workplace protection of the forest Research Institute for Forestry and Hunting. The aim is to monitor the occurrence of harmful agents and early warning of the need for or benefit of protection against pests causing economic damage to forest growth. The most visible is the growth of leaf-eating insects, especially on oaks. The most important thing, as I said, is a big-headed beaver. In 2019 local gradations took place in various places, but mostly in southwest Moravia. This year, the increased incidence of large-headed beavers can continue, just as we will probably register local growths of various types of leaf-eating pests, as in previous years, of course, the media-famous storms, the foreplay of malignant, retractors, etc. As a result, however, these crops are chronically weakened each year and their regenerative potential is reduced, it is a matter of time before intervention against the large-headed bullhead is necessary. Of course, low groundwater reserves are also significantly reflected in the health status of older pine crops throughout Polabí, where thousands of hectares of pine forests have dried as a result of physiological water shortages. We follow this situation very closely and consider it very serious. In terms of human capacity, in 2018 and 2019 the Ministry of Agriculture implemented the project Special Procedures for Agriculture and Food Workers from Ukraine, which enabled us to shorten procedures for obtaining Ukrainian labour. The project was at 1. 9th last year was terminated and was therefore effective from 1st on the basis of the employer's requirements. 12th last year, the government approved a follow-up programme Extraordinary working visa for nationals of Ukraine working in agriculture, food or forestry. Its aim is to make it easier to provide support to direct employers by speeding up the process of approving work permits for selected foreign workers from Ukraine, as well as by allowing them to extend their stay for up to one year. As far as technology is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture is adopting and adopting measures aimed at strengthening (?) lack of mining machinery and obsolete technological equipment. Therefore, in the field of non-state ownership of forests, we have tried to open grant schemes that ensure low-interest, or if you want a subsidised loan for the purchase of mining technology, a loan with a possibility of reducing the principal by up to 50 per cent of the loan volume or direct 50 per cent of the subsidy for the purchase of this technique. Everything I have said is covered by the Support and Guarantee Fund and the Rural Development Programme. Under the PGRLF Investment loans programme, two rounds of applications were made last year, loans of CZK 300 million were granted and CZK 230 million were committed to direct subsidies. The announcement of these programmes on this fund and this year is, of course, dependent on the volume of available funds for this year. As far as rendering is concerned. In the area of the rendering of the contested wood, it was possible to ensure and prolong an exemption for the use of highly efficient EDN, which is suitable for large volume rendering. The volume of wood treated with this technology is relatively low at the moment due to the complexity of the logistics work that was optimized last year, but this year the volume of such treated wood is increasing and we expect a significantly wider application of this technology. We have established a new grant title for the rendering of the affected wood matter as the Ministry of Agriculture for Non-State Forest Owners, within which we paid about CZK 20 million. Our aim is to eliminate, or at least reduce, the bureaucratic burden of potential applicants, which is why Government Decree No. 30/2014 Coll., in its up-to-date version, which lays down binding rules on the provision of financial contributions to forest management and selected hunting activities, where, in addition to simplifying administration, supported ways of rendering wood matter will be extended. As far as transport is concerned. I must say that measures in the field of the transport of calamity wood, which are implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and ČD Cargo, can be considered successful. Rail transport has been able to increase transport capacity by increasing the number of wagons by operating deployment from other modes of transport and, in particular, by providing repairs and production of brand new cars. It was possible to increase the coverage of the requirements for adding cars, road transport managed to accelerate the process of granting exemptions from driving time restrictions. As far as storage is concerned, in July 2018, we prepared a Catalogue of areas suitable for wood storage in order to solve the problem of the lack of space for storage of sludge wood for which there will be no sale. This catalogue currently includes 341 suitable areas predominantly owned by the State. The estimated capacity is 2 million cc's of wood. In connection with the increasing volume of wood stored, we assume a wider application of the catalogue in practice and at the same time we are looking for other possibilities of storage of calumny matter. At the moment, at the Ministry of Agriculture, we are discussing the issue of possible storage of timber on agricultural parcels in order to allow the type of storage on agricultural parcels so that short-term storage of such timber on agricultural parcels on which subsidies are granted is possible under this scheme, excluding, of course, penalties for beneficiaries of such subsidies. Use of wood. One of the possible alternatives to the use of calumny wood is the energy use of wood in local heating sites. The Ministry of Agriculture is aware that this solution is rather of a long-term nature and the problems with the sale of wood matter are not addressed immediately. We are dealing with all stakeholders in this matter and can be an example - this afternoon is a round table on the issue of wood processing and sales, where this matter will be dealt with. As regards legislative measures. Last year, it was in the form of a parliamentary initiative, and I would like to thank you for the cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture with the amendment to the Forest Law, and thanks to the constructive approach and support of the Chamber of Deputies, this amendment was already approved at first reading so that it could take effect on 2 April 2019 as Act No. 90/2019 Coll., amending and supplementing forest law. This amendment allowed us to take advantage of the derogation from the selected provisions of the Forest Law and allowed us to issue a very operational decision in the form of a general nature with effect from the date of publication on the Official Board of the Ministry of Agriculture. Immediately after its adoption, the Ministry issued the so-called. a measure of a general nature which, on the basis of the adopted amendment, has been used by the Institute. This means that in the whole Czech Republic it was possible to postpone the extraction of sterile landland and within the selected cadastral territory, according to the degree of damage to bark sludge, it was possible to withdraw from the implementation of inefficient defensive measures, delay the time for forestation to those five years and secure forest crops for ten years and also allow the leaving of unforested stripes within the calumnious shavings. The intention was to allow the transfer of processing capacities to carry out the activities of priority, i.e. search and early rendering by the bark of the affected wood, i.e., where we create time space and more relaxed conditions to ensure the restoration of the forest after mining. [[12.00 hours]] This measure was amended on the basis of ongoing monitoring of the evolution of the calamity on 30 August. The establishment of cadastral territories has been modified in connection with progressing calamity and the rules for the use of forest reproductive material have been relaxed. For forestation it is possible to use forest reproductive material from any natural forest area and altitude, with the exception of the spruce from the draught. Calamity monitoring will also take place this year, when we expect three more updates during the growing season. As regards the evaluation of the success of the implemented measures, in the case of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic, at least 2.5 million cc's of abandoned land was postponed on the basis of this provision, allowing us to extract the corresponding amount of currently attacked wood. The functionality of the measures ensuring sufficient reproductive material is continuously monitored. The second amendment to the Forest Law was adopted under No. 314/2019 Coll. with effect from 29. 11. 2019. This amendment brings the possibility of a faster and easier fight against barking calamity. Among other things, it will allow forest owners to draw contributions to their renewal. The amendment envisages that measures to support the fight against bark bark can be re-established by both the Ministry of Agriculture and the regional authorities and municipalities with extended scope. According to this draft, the Ministry has the possibility, as well as regional and municipal authorities, to limit access to forests due to the safety of forest visitors. Of course, there will also be restrictions on the removal of mining residues where forests do not have enough nutrients. And the amendment also gives the right to grant exemptions for the use of seedlings in the event of a lack of suitable growing material. On the first January of last year, Decree No. 298 on the processing of regional forest development plans, which are newly governing aspects of forest renewal in connection with changing natural conditions and ongoing bark sludge. The main benefits of the decree are, in particular, the substantial expansion of the spectrum of habitats of suitable species of the main meliaration and strengthening trees intended for forestation and the possibility of the temporary renewal of large sludge areas by means of so-called preparatory woods. As far as planting material is concerned, the issue of forestation of the resulting shavings is related to the ongoing calamity. In 2018, crops for seed harvesting, especially leafy trees, were very favourable. That is, when I give an example, three times the annual amount was collected in 2018 at the forest beech, and the oaks were six times the average annual demand. The proportion of seed collection of other deciduous trees, such as maples, limes, alders and so on, has also increased significantly. For these trees, the collections were increased from previously collected tens of kilograms to hundreds of thousands of kilograms. Unfortunately, last year was a year of crop failure, especially in oak and beech. Yet we have developed the maximum effort to collect these trees, including the collection of other trees, which may be an alternative substitute for oak and beech. From seed collections of all trees, more than 360 million seedlings could potentially be grown, which corresponds to the forestation of 66 thousand hectares at an average number of 5,500 seedlings per hectare. From 2019 collections, the potential number of seedlings is about 120 million pieces. In this context, I would very much like to stress that most of the measures implemented so far, both legislative and financial, aim to promote artificial renewal of the forestation of the resulting shavings. A frequently discussed question lately is the question of representation of spruce. Here I would like to remind myself, and I consider it necessary that a change in the species composition aimed at reducing the presence of spruce in growth is, of course, not a year-to-year solution. The amount of recovery represents an average of 26 thousand hectares per year, of which artificial renewal accounts for 84 percent and natural 16 percent. In the framework of artificial renewal, the proportion of deciduous trees increases. In 2018, we already exceeded 45 per cent compared to 2000, when it was 35 per cent. However, I must also say that the spruce will continue to have its representation, but in an increasingly decreasing proportion, for example, as a so-called preparatory tree for the restoration of calamity areas. The State Company of the Forest of the Czech Republic intends to increase the natural reconstruction in order to account for 40 percent by 2024 but mainly for forest-ecological reasons. As far as financial support is concerned, following the above amendment to the Forest Law, that is to say, Law No. 314/2019 Sb., we started by the end of 2019 receiving requests for a financial contribution to mitigate the effects of bark sludge. The receipt of applications was up to 28. 2. 2020. Under this title, non-state forest owners have the opportunity to receive a contribution to the management of their assets in order to fulfil the social functions of forests at a time when the revenues from the sale of timber and the very difficult market situation are causing problems with the economic viability of forest assets. So far, we have paid CZK 1.1 billion out of approved CZK 2.5 billion. Overall, 6 500 applications of 2.8 billion were accepted. Similar support as for 2019 is also being prepared for 2020. And, of course, due to the continued barking calamity, the increasing volume of random mining and the deepening crisis in the wood market, this will represent significantly higher demands on the state budget than last year, and it will be at the rate of billions of crowns. A more accurate estimate, we assume, will be available in April of this year. Of course, other successful and functioning measures include financial support for non-state forest owners under forest management aid. They are mainly provided for the restoration of forest crops, i.e. natural rejuvenation and planting, securing and training forest crops, gentle technologies for forest management and so on. In 2019, 1.15 billion were paid, which is 400 million more than in 2018, and a government amendment regulation is being prepared, starting with 1. 7. greatly increases the contribution to the care of newly established crops. As regards strategic documents, the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic prepared the Ministry of Agriculture as founder and the Supervisory Board approved the new Strategy for the Development of the Forest of the Czech Republic for the period from 1. 9. 2019 to 31. 12. 2024, which responds to the current calamity situation. The key part of the new strategy is its business model chapter. Contracting units are newly divided into catastrophic, post-calamity and non-kalamic - with a different approach to the award of a public contract. In addition, the territory of the existing forest plants, within which the cultivation and mining activities are carried out by their own employees, is expanded. Just for the record, it's an extension from 80,000 hectares to almost 140,000 hectares this year. The aim of the newly set business model is, inter alia, to ensure direct sales of wood in the direction of the state enterprise from 2020 at least 2 million ccs per year. I am very pleased that these changes also correspond to the SAO's audit findings made in the second half of 2019, which he states - now I will quote: "The Czech Republic's forests responded to an extreme increase in random mining in 2019 by changing business models, respectively. by extending the OM business model to forest administrations in a catastrophic state. Forests of the Czech Republic by increasing their capacity at forest plants allowing rapid reaction in the event of unexpected calamity situations outside their own territory and fulfilling the reference function in relation to the prices of forestry activities as well as the prices of wood will allow a faster and more objective procedure in dealing with calamity situations." The submission of a proposal for the creation of an economic result is also linked to the assumption of a zero contribution of funds to the founder's fund. The trend of the decline in prices from the sale of timber results, among other things, from the official outputs of the Czech Statistical Office, where, for example, for non-state owners there was a drop in prices at the spruce logs, where barkwood is used for sawmilling processing from CZK 1,700/m3 in 2015 to CZK 834/m3 in the third quarter of last year. A similar fall was also recorded by fiber, when around the same period of 1,000 CZK/m3 it dropped to 400 CZK/m3. In February the government of the Czech Republic also approved the Concept of State Forestry Policy by 2035. It aims, inter alia, to create conditions for the balanced full performance of all the functions of the forest for future generations, taking into account the ongoing climate change, to increase biodiversity and ecological stability of forest ecosystems while maintaining production function. The main theme of the concept is, of course, the adaptation of forests and the management of forests to changing environmental conditions. It is about not resigning to the current adverse developments and actively seeking to restore diverse forests that are resistant to climate change and that are able to contain water. At the same time, it is an ambition to maintain the competitiveness of forest assets and to maintain the downstream wood-processing industry. [[12.10 hours]] From the point of view of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is important to increase the efficiency and performance of state forest management and to simplify financial support for forest owners and to increase their incentive effect. Some measures are already being implemented. I would like to mention the forthcoming amendment to the Government's regulation on the provision of financial contributions to forest management, which aims to simplify administration and to increase support for the restoration of forests in crappy areas. Of course, it is being prepared, as I said, another stage of compensation for losses caused by bark sludge. Another example is the preparation of an amendment to the Act on Hunting, which aims to limit the impact of cloven-hoofed game on the forest in particular so that the forest fulfills all its functions and the game is not a limit for the successful restoration of forest crops. Following the adoption of the concept, we started preparing a detailed application document, which will contain concrete measures leading to implementation, including the relevant gestures, deadlines and entitlements to the state budget, and this will be submitted to the government by the end of this year. With regard to the context of barking calamity and hunting, the Ministry of Agriculture prepared and sent a government proposal for an amendment to the Act on Hunting. It follows, virtually. specifies and brings a more economically feasible way of achieving the objective of reducing the damage to animals and limiting the negative impact of the game on the restoration of land in forests using data from the national forest inventory to monitor trends in forest status rather than the solution adopted in the form of that parliamentary proposal, respectively. changes to the amendment to the Forest Law. Mr President, Madam Members, in the course of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in July 2018, the House adopted the accompanying resolution number 305, which was requested by the Ministry of Agriculture for essential steps and measures aimed at a successful fight against barkworm. I would therefore conclude my performance briefly or summarily recapitulate the four points, respectively. informs about their implementation. The Chamber of Deputies has requested that legislative changes be made to combat bark effectively or other disasters in the woods. So we realized, as I said, the amendment to the Forest Act No. 90/2019 Coll., amendment to the Act on Forests No. 314/2019 Coll., Decree No. 298 on the processing of regional forest development plans, the amendment to the Decree governing the rate and reimbursement of the costs of the activities of a professional forest manager. The Chamber of Deputies also asked for the modification of grant titles in the Ministry of Agriculture to support, in particular, non-state forest owners compensateing for the increased costs associated with bark sludge, that is to say, the amendment of the quoted forest law No. 314 a new form of financial contribution was introduced to mention the effects of the barking calamity, which non-state forest owners could first draw from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2018, even during 2019. Like I said, we're counting on it in 2020. For the next one. The Chamber of Deputies asked for coordination of negotiations with the subjects concerned when opening key topics such as the revision of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests of the Czech Republic's strategic documents, modification of the system of public administration, solution of operational needs related to bark sludge. The state enterprise adopted the development strategy of the Forests of the Czech Republic from 1 September 2019 to 31 December 2024. As I said, this document sets out the guidelines and principles of further development of the company, and I consider it the most fundamental of its content to say that starting from 2020, the area of land on which it operates and also trades forest plants of the Czech Forests is increasing significantly. The company's business model, when three types of contracts will be newly competing, will also make significant changes according to the impact of the territory by calamity. An integral part of the document is also a description of the financial strategy of the company, which is adapted to the current situation on the wood market. The Ministry also developed the concept of state forestry policy during 2019 until 2035, which was approved by the Government on 17 February of this year. Collaboration with other resorts. Ministry of Transport and ČD Cargo - railway transport of muddy wood, increasing the number of wagons. That's good, that's good. With the Ministry of Regional Development, we discussed and implemented the possibility of remediation of damage on roads damaged by the transport of mudwood within the framework of the MMR subsidy programme Supporting the development of regions. The Chamber of Deputies has requested regular information from the Government on the measures taken in relation to barking calamity. From August 2018, information is regularly submitted to the Prime Minister on a monthly basis, and this information is also regularly submitted to the Agricultural Committee and the Environment Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a reality that the calamity in the woods continues. Despite all the efforts I have been making here, further progress of the crust sludge can be expected in 2020 and what to do in the area affected by the territory. The volume of the attack can be anticipated at least at the same rate as last year, but only in the northern Moravia area we expect confirmation of the culture and further decline. The climatic conditions of the next period will affect not only the condition of the forest vegetation but also the foresting of the shavings after the calamity. I am aware that the period we are going through is critical for many forest owners, and it is without doubt that the key issue of their financial security is the success of the current fight against calamity, in which, without the much needed financial participation of the state, it is not in my view possible to ensure the future recovery of forests. I am convinced that a great deal of work has been done in the past period, and I am saying this with the knowledge that another, and this least part of the work is ahead of us. Here I am talking mainly about practical foresters, but also about state administration in the wider sense, about scientists, researchers, but also about employees not only of the Forests of the Czech Republic but also of vocational education, who prepare future foresters for their career careers already with our current experience and knowledge. Our joint work and efforts, in my opinion, are much more effective than some conjecture and barren debates, attacking each other and promoting our own opinions or finding a culprit at all costs than I have been able to follow lately. At this point, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Chamber of Deputies for its interest and, above all, for a constructive approach in addressing the current adverse situation in the Czech woods, while at the same time I would like to ask you for support for the next period, because I believe that working together will succeed in achieving that future generations can enjoy forests of varied, durable, providing living space and joy not only for us but also for future generations. Now allow me to get very briefly to the issue of the catastrophic overgrowth of the field vole. I would like to point out here that the Ministry of Agriculture continues to give priority to agritechnical measures consisting in the destruction of the underground nests of voles, but we also appeal to Czech farmers not to underestimate the effectiveness of preventive measures. According to the monitoring of the Central Testing Institute of Agriculture, however, high numbers of voles persist on a number of sites in the Czech Republic and in the winter period in 2020, which exceed the limits of harmfulness many times. It takes such an exceptional condition to protect plants as a result of the occurrence of field vole and there is considerable economic damage and we cannot be sure when and where this pest will result in an irreversible and substantial population decline. In the present situation, authorisations and emergency plant protection measures are necessary given the fact that the situation has not yet been managed by other acceptable means. At present, the estimated total economic loss of agricultural holdings on the basis of data from farmers is 1.8 billion in order and the affected farms are now more than 200 and the damaged area is 154 thousand hectares. The most affected are winter wheat, rape and, of course, the most serious situation is in the South Moravian, Zlinsky and Olomouc region. It stretches to Highlands and South Bohemia. [[12.20 hours]] Given the scale of the calamity I described here, we have taken an extraordinary step. On land on which vole populations exceed five times the threshold of harmfulness, inspectors of the Central Institute of Control and Testing of Agriculture may order a surface application of rodenticide for the eradication of vole. All I'm saying is, not flat, but surface, please nicely, which is different. And I would like to stress that, given the mild winter, the growing stocks of the vole population and any health risks to the population, these are the necessary measures. Details of the permit and procedure for farmers are published on the website of the Central Institute of Agricultural Control and Testing on the web. Of course, this procedure was consulted with both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Environment. By yesterday, ÚKZÚZ received 262 incentives for selective surface application at 76,000 hectares. The monitoring was completed in 92 investigations, the catastrophic occurrence was confirmed within 90 investigations, representing an area of 24, less than 25,000 hectares. A total of 26 notifications of initiation of the administrative procedure were submitted. And here again, I want to say that it's not an area application, it's a selective surface application on exactly defined land. The situation on a particular site is always assessed by inspectors directly in the field. Each authorisation shall include conditions to minimise the impact of the application on non-target organisms. The Ministry of Agriculture also supports efforts to use subsurface applicators for rodenticides and informs the professional agricultural public about the possible use of a straight-line granules applicator. At the same time, it is also not possible to forget the realization of compensation for damage caused by the protection of specially protected animals in connection with compliance with Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation. In these places farmers cannot implement normal measures and good agricultural practice, which also includes the possibility of applying a plant protection product which is appropriate and possible against an oversized field vole in a given situation. And in these places, the farmers also have compensation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention. I want to thank you for your cooperation and I am fully at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u3	Well, thank you. And now with priority rights - I wish you a nice noon - the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik reports with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, ma'ams and gentlemen. I, too, thank the Minister for a very comprehensive and detailed interpretation of the issue, including solutions. I think that's exactly why we asked for this issue to be discussed here. We have various solutions prepared, various motions for resolutions. However, there is another point, and this is the point next, point 250. At this point, even on the basis of my preliminary agreement, I would like to propose a merger of the debate on paragraphs 246 and 250. Thank you. At the same time, I am the first person to report to this debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u5	Yes, I will add that you are also interested in being rapporteur. So this is where I'm marked. I will now call the Members to vote because we will agree whether we agree with the merged debate. I've already begun. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. Mr Jan Pošvář apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Minister of Justice Marie Benešová apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes for the afternoon meeting for health reasons and President of the House Radek Vondráček apologizes from 11 to 13 hours for family reasons. So there's a check-out request. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. We will vote on the proposal by the President of the KSČM to merge the debate on points 246 and 250. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 56, 95 Members registered, for 94, against no one. The debate has been merged. So we will continue at paragraph 246, where we are still missing the statement by the appellant of this point, which is Mr Petr Bendl. So I'm gonna ask you to step forward as the plaintiff. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to thank the Chambers of Deputies and Ministers for having this item at the plenary session, because the situation is serious. Those of you who come from the regions most affected by pests, and now I don't just mean crusts, can confirm to me that the view of the landscape is trivial and that we certainly have to deal with it. In the past, the forest was a bank for every farmer and owner of the forest, fulfilling not only environmental and landscape maintenance functions, but also economic functions. In fact, every forest owner in the past had a bank, a financial resource that he could finance at the time the money ran out, so he could finance his economic needs by selling wood, if any. Today, owning the forest is basically a punishment. Because the situation is really, I'll say, almost catastrophic and it's probably gonna get a lot worse. The Minister of the Environment recently commented on the expectation that the crust bark will continue for three to five years, which is roughly the time before it eats up everything, I would almost say, or a significant part of the forest vegetation in the Czech Republic. We should not only address the situation that has now occurred, that is, how to ensure the capacity of personnel to ensure the destruction of barkwood, processing capacity and technical handling of the situation, storage capacity and all the details that the Minister of the Environment has mentioned. This I think is relatively successful, although it is not easy, when we have to assume that this amount of work will be here for a relatively short period of time, that it will be for three to five years, so we assume. Then the capacity will fall down again and for us the wood in the Czech Republic will become much more scarce goods than it is today. I think it's obvious to everyone. And that times will come from the point of view of the need for wood, which will be many times more complex. The primary at this point is the speed of intervention where it is still needed. I think it was a good thing that it was decided that the bark-eating forest no longer makes sense to cut down, that we have to pursue within the capacities we have, especially those places where those threats occur, where the bark-eating is breaking down, and so that forestry measures are taken to keep it from multiplying, even though I feel that in a number of cases it will be a futile fight, because bark-eating, virtually. The forest doesn't get what it needs, and that's water. Water happens, or it's already a huge problem, even if it's been raining for two or three days now, so we all felt - and thank God for the rain - that almost nothing is happening, but the opposite is true. This situation is worse than any of us who live here have ever remembered it. I think we're really gonna remember the times we used to skate in January, in February, when our dads used to pour a part of us, like, somewhere we could skate. This time is clearly gone. I must remind you that for the last two months, January, February, was four degrees above normal. [[12.30 hours]] In the Czech Republic, there is no snow, our groundwater reserves are catastrophic and we are obliged to do our utmost to keep water in the landscape, and this is actually related to what the crust is doing to us here, or the big-headed beaver, because it is only the landscape that shows us very clearly what we have done here at the moment. And the Minister of Agriculture is right when he says it's pointless to blame each other for who's responsible for this, because we've been doing evil in the country for over a hundred years. I'm sure it's centuries, it's certainly not decades, because in the last decade, on the contrary, we can say all the positive things that have happened in nature over the last decade, but it's not enough and it won't be enough. We have done our utmost to get rid of water, and from the land that was in the Middle Ages of the wetland, the land of mooring and tens of thousands of ponds, we have gradually created a landscape where we will really miss water, a landscape that will not keep the forest in its adult state. Therefore, one of my proposals with which I will address you is for the Chamber of Deputies to ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture to consider the long-term amount of rainfall in the area - I will almost tell the former forest owners, because they are already stump owners, not forest owners, to replant, to replant the forest, to consider the long-term amount of precipitation in that area, because, to imagine, the spruce forest needs a collision of at least 650 mm per year for its optimal life, and if we plant again trees that need this amount of precipitation, in places where there is no precipitation in the long-term, then we simply condemn the forest equally to the fact that maturity will not live. And since today every owner has an obligation to plant again, not only is it necessary to talk about the song, as the Minister has rightly said, but also about whether. I know that this may be a bold thought today, but we will not miss nature, and if a tree needs some amount of fallout to exist, then we should not be completely dumb and deaf to this fact, and we should think about it and look for other ways to deal with the landscape, to keep water in it, and to start turning the trend that I think is absolutely relentless. In a few years, we'll know what we've done here for hundreds of years. I'm not just talking about the melioration. I don't mean just unifying land and planting tens of thousands of hectares in the last century of spruce forest where spruce today has no chance of surviving. I don't even mean the fact that we were very good at supporting the construction of sewers in a lot of cities and municipalities. After 1989, a large number of decanalized towns and municipalities, households connected to the sewers, increased significantly, but we also did that by building a single sewerage, which means that we let the rainbow into wastewater treatment plants, streams and rivers, and we quickly disposed of the water. We've done a lot of meliorations and so on, which we've rid and rid the landscape of water. There's a big challenge ahead of us. I have sent the Minister of Agriculture some proposals for a resolution. I am glad that some of them are incorporated in the resolution that the Minister has presented here. I have asked for an analysis of the measures against the reduction of water vapor from the territory for the purpose of water retention in the landscape. I took the liberty of guessing the date here by the middle of this year, because a lot of the data is known. Finally, the Minister has incorporated in his motion for a resolution only an analysis of the waste water from forest land. I think we should know from the soil in general to be able to name how deep the problem is and what is happening to the landscape, because when you compare the amount of rainfall that has fallen - and I have statistics published annually by the Ministry of Agriculture, and the last one I have, at least those years 2013 to 2018, fell in the Czech Republic about 57 miles in 2013. m3 water in collisions and drained from the Czech Republic about 20 billion. m3 water. [[billion.?]] And we, as you all know, are the roof of Europe, almost no water in the territory of the Czech Republic is coming to us, but the vast majority of us are draining away, so we are absolutely dependent on collisions. By 2018, some 40 billion fell. m3 precipitation and leaked from the Czech Republic 8 billion. m3 water. In 2013 57 and 20, in 2018 40 and 8. There you can see how quickly the situation changes, even the difference in the amount of water that falls and which flows away. That is why I draw the attention of the Ministry of Agriculture to fumes, and not only to the fumes from forests, but to the fumes generally from areas defined in the Czech Republic, because somewhere there will also be a dog buried and I think we will be forced to work with it for the future. I also refer to another part of my resolution to the Minister, concerning the very obligation of forest owners affected by barkwood to replant the forest, in order to take account of the fact that in some territories the structure of the forest will have to be different if it is possible to plant the forest at all. I hope I said everything I wanted to say. I'm just gonna take a second... At least for the moment, thank you for your attention. I have one more comment. It is good that we have regular reports on the situation in the area of bark and that we have the opportunity to monitor and be actively involved, because it is not just a debate here at this time at the level of the Chamber of Deputies, but on the agricultural committee we regularly take care with our colleague Martin to discuss the topic of water really intensively and to look for all possible solutions, because it will have to be thousands of different measures to keep water in the landscape, because water is not just a chance for animals and people, but generally for our life here in the future. I have one more comment. It's gonna take money, and it's not small. The will of the Chamber of Deputies will be needed to support and finance the destruction that is taking place in the Czech Republic at this time, and it will be a considerable amount of money. It is a great pity, I can only sigh that we still have 28 billion left of us in the forest reserves of the Czech Republic. The crown, and there's nothing. The funds fell apart gradually in the state budget. I am saying this so that the Chamber of Deputies has the will of the financial resources needed especially for the detention of water in the countryside, and this obviously has to do with the forest, so that it has the courage and will to spend considerable money on this problem, because without that it will not be possible. [[12.40 hours]] I'm curious myself how it will technically be done, especially the replanting of those huge areas, tens, hundreds, maybe thousands of hectares, when it won't be possible to fence. There's gonna be some animals living inside that territory. Since there are shavings now, there will be trees planted there in two, three, four years they will be at the height of a meter and a half, two meters, three, there will be no sighting and there will be a need to regulate the animals there. How the miners are gonna do that, I'm very curious about that. That's what we need to think about the moment we plant new woods in the places where we've had them for decades, and now they won't be there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u7	The Minister of Environment Richard Brabec will now appear. In the meantime, I'll read two apologies. Member Ondřej Profant apologizes from 14.30 pm to the rest of the day for personal reasons, and Member Vlastimil Válek apologizes today between 12 and 18 pm for working reasons. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because, first, the overwhelming majority has been said by the Minister of Agriculture, and secondly, I certainly want to leave room for another debate. I would like one general remark and one specific one. The general remark will concern cooperation with the Department of Agriculture, and I want to say that it is good. And that is the answer to a whole series of attacks, when we are sometimes, of course, built into a counterpoint with the Ministry of Agriculture. I mean, what's happening to water right now and what's happening in our woods right now is something that's so far beyond us that there's just no books or experience. All we can do is work together, listen to scientists, listen to experts, listen to the pointless advice of those who don't have the responsibility and are quite - I don't want to say what happens, but they just want to test something there. I think we have a great responsibility here, and let's face it, and we have tried it with Minister Toman, for example, to solve such specific things, at first sight perhaps not important, but in a way breakthrough, and that is whether and what trees to plant, what to return to the landscape. We're talking today about what the original species is, what the non-originating species is, and what it's going to be doing here in the woods. And let's face it, no one has a clear answer to that today. Petr Bendl was talking about it. It's about going somewhere that we don't know exactly whether in 5, 10, 20 years the new generation of species we're going to bet today is really thriving, but we have to go this way now, maybe even at risk, because leaving the shins without planting is not possible. The fact that it will cost immense funds in tens and tens of billions of crowns and over that long time certainly even hundreds of billions of crowns and that the state must help even the small owners is clear because otherwise there would be hundreds of thousands of hectares of shavings. I'm sure there's more room for natural renewal, letting nature show what it can do, even in a part of national parks, but naturally we can't leave it all over the territory of the economic forests. So this is a general remark in that I really see a significant difference in the behaviour of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forests of the Czech Republic today. For me, an incomparable state, which I experienced four or five years ago, when I joined the Ministry of Environment and met back then also in the Forests of the Czech Republic with a certain disparate attitude and with a certain Romance over the fact that we are right, we have always had it. Today we see that the situation is different. Let me just make a practical point about the situation in the national parks, because it is once again beauty, or my gesture, above these economic forests is, of course, the gesture of the Minister of Agriculture. Here I'd like to say that the development in national parks, and let's talk about three, because the national park It will, in principle, not concern him, the barking calamity. From the point of view of the National Parks Czech Switzerland, Krkonoše National Park and Šumava National Park, I will only tell you mining for last year. In Sumava in 2019 it was almost 210 thousand. Cabs, 52,000 KRNAP. Cabs of extracted barkwood and in Czech Switzerland 57 thousand. Cabs, which, of course, are ordered or several times lower mining than what we're talking about in the economic forests. There is, of course, an increase that corresponds to the increase in the immediate vicinity of the parks, and it is logical that in some way the barking calamity will continue in the following years. How quickly it will be promoted in national parks is, of course, a question of weather, weather developments. Unfortunately, so far this year, we are not entering it with a good basis due to the minimal amount of snow and the above-average temperatures, but we will see. It's obviously crystal ball divination. I mean, we're also mining in national parks, and we're going to benefit in those zones that allow for extraction, first of all. And secondly, we're going to protect the neighborhood, which means the surrounding owners, buffer zones, in all national parks. And I say again, even here we can expect higher mining. And even national parks suffer significantly from a fall in the so-called monetization, i.e. a fall in the price of barkwood, hundreds of millions of crowns that have fallen from the economy or from the budgets of national parks. And that's what we have to deal with. And the very last point concerns Czech environmental inspection. Here I would like to say that from the perspective of their controls and strategies and from the point of view of supervisory activity over pest intervention, in this case above all against crust, I say that the imposition of fines in general can be considered ineffective if we want to impose fines widely on everyone, because many owners are now in a situation where they do not avoid problems in all their efforts. On the other hand, it is clear from the checks that there are forest properties, where forest land owners, despite all the capacity problems, try to intervene with the price, try to effectively prevent the barking trip into the surrounding property, into the surrounding forests. And on the other hand, we have cases where we can see repeatedly that the owner, even if he has options, does not just do it. And that, of course, is where we differentiate from the point of view of intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-003-246.u9	I will therefore now interrupt this point because there will be a merged debate. So I'm going to open a point.
