ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u1	210. Mr Dolínek's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on the Amendment of Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended (the House Print 374/ - third reading) I will ask that Mr Petr Dolínek - I see that he is present - and Mr Jan Bauer, who is also present at the rapporteur's table. I note that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 374/4, which was delivered on 28 November 2019. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 374/5. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Once again, I will ask the House for peace! [[Ambassador Dolínek: Good morning.]] Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. As soon as the situation is such that it is possible for us to listen to the appellant's third reading before the debate is opened, I will give him the floor. I do not intend to appoint individual Members, but please, if you are having a debate other than the road law, in principle in the foyer! Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u2	Good morning. Dear colleagues, I would therefore like to put forward a draft law in the third reading, which addresses a rather simple matter. This relates to the fact that, in the context of the existence of preferential lanes intended for public public public transport, an integrated rescue system and somewhere e.g. Even taxi cars, as modified, could not and cannot yet be fined by the city police on the spot. She could only shut down the car to a reserved location, start administrative proceedings, and of course all this is very complicated, it is not ideal. That means she didn't have a state police position in this case. Why it is necessary to follow the preferential stripes, I think it is quite straightforward and it is a simple reason. Fortunately, most of the population of the Czech Republic still use public transport as their priority transport either for work or for other purposes, and of course also the integrated rescue system frequently uses these lanes in the moment when it is a crisis situation and when morning traffic, for example, or the afternoon rush hour, prevents the rapid passage of some areas. Of course, drivers who do not respect this operation and enter preferential lanes are violating regulations. Unfortunately, I know that the state police have a lot more to worry about than simply controlling preferential lanes, but the city police are familiar with what is happening on their territory thanks to the camera system and other things and could therefore effectively intervene, for example. tiptoe where it needs to be. This proposal was therefore submitted. At first reading, there was a few-hour discussion on whether the municipal police should be burdened or not to be burdened by other powers. I'm glad we're here to discuss that this is one unique authority that we're extending our responsibilities or the possibilities of the city police. And I am also glad that colleagues and colleagues have not used this law to continue to enter the powers of the city police in the context of transport. So that's how the bill was protected. I would like to ask for his support, as the debate was simple and the proposal was supported by the GG Committee. Like other colleagues, I would briefly mention the amendments that were subsequently made. There are several, not so many, but some are significant. The first proposal I would like to mention is a proposal that says that we are replacing, virtually. We're extending the possibility of someone paying a fine to the Bureau from 15 to 30 days. I see this as an optimal issue, because cities often had a problem that when someone founded a bill, then paid the sixteenth, seventeenth day, so at their expense the community had to return the money to the sinner and start driving. This is the way we give it a chance to deal with their fine in the 30-day rhythm when people are used to paying different bills and the like. However, of course, if 30 days are not used, the classic procedure continues. I think it's a positive thing. Furthermore, I would also appreciate a proposal that does not directly concern traffic on common roads, but there is a proposal that it should be possible for it to be possible for drivers of tractors to also use driving licences obtained abroad or abroad. that some groups of drivers, although they do not have so-called. T-bone, they could've driven the tractor. I think that this is particularly positive for farmers and forest farmers at this time of labour shortage. So I also see it as positive. The proposal that appeared here, or appeared, has been loaded, and I consider it the most interesting, is the proposal by Mrs Pastuchová, and this is that cars, especially ambulances, when returning from their intervention and driving on the highway, can drive as fast as other cars according to limits and do not have to have their limit up to 3.5 tonnes. [[ho]] I think it's very beneficial, and I've seen a lot of positive reactions from professionals. Then we have Mr Koten's proposals on speed in the tunnel. I see it as contradictory there, because of course, ŘSD and others have different regulations according to standards. There I am neutral to this, because of course it depends on the operator of the given communication, if he tells us that he would already be able to meet this limit at all, the 110 per hour, and I think it's very debatable. Also, the proposal concerning the fact that seniors over 68 years of age would have other penalties for failure to fulfil obligations than younger ones. I am very sympathetic to this, but I understand that, within the framework of equality of law, it is also a debatable matter, so I have a neutral position to make. I made an amendment myself, which concerns the Government's resolution, virtually. a proposal proposed by the government to add to the law. It's a technical thing I designed. Then we have two other proposals attached to this simple bill. One concerns Mr Kott, respectively. Tows on roads and highways. I cannot support this proposal at the moment, I have a negative opinion, and that is because it is not written to the benefit of the matter, although I perceive that the author of the proposal has been watching one thing - and you have actually talked about it here for two hours or an hour and a half before - the transitability of the motorway and the transitability of the capacity roads. The author certainly tried to ensure that the police could get rid of any vehicle as quickly as possible in order to maximize the capacity of the operation. However, as it is written, it raises a number of question marks. That is why I have a negative opinion on this issue, and I therefore justify that I am not opposed to the operation of communications, but against the system as proposed. However, of course, there is certainly someone who can comment on this. And then I say for myself that, although the matter does not entirely concern me with the proposed law or the amendment of the law, at this point I see positively Mrs Mračková's proposal, however, a number of things have already been mentioned here. I will say the reason quite simply, and that is, if the Ministry is not able to provide the mayors and regions with guaranteed traffic on their roads, then, of course, emergency measures are coming. This is how I see it. On the other hand, both crisis measures will come and I expect that they can subsequently be resolved after really preparing a network of operations so that our municipalities are not at risk. And I think that the solution that has been proposed before is simple, and it is only a few sections to pay back, virtually. to charge at zero level, but if the will is not yet, I support that the municipalities can protect their citizens. I fought for it myself in Prague within the city circuit and similar roads and, for example, Spořilov, when people die of serious diseases in Spořilov because we are unable to give them alternative transport, respectively. Those trucks. So I see that other mayors and other communities are fighting like this. I therefore want to ask for the law to be supported, but, of course, I will perceive the proposed options that will be heard in the discussion and, of course, I am prepared as a petitioner to adapt to them according to the will of the majority of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u3	I thank the plaintiff for his opening words. I'm opening the debate. I have two proper applications. First, Mr Josef Kott, Mr Polanský will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like first of all to thank the translator for his approach. I have described my amendment in detail at second reading and will therefore try to introduce it briefly. The proposal is primarily about the timelyness of the intervention. We want to be sure that the tow service will be on the scene of the collision in time and that it will be able to hit and tow the vehicle well and thus prepare and do the most necessary work. Therefore, in an open selection procedure, the ŘSD negotiated large tow services on the motorways and made methodology and clear procedures under severe sanctions, where speed and accuracy of intervention are involved, so that the vehicle is removed from the motorway as soon as possible. That means minimize the columns that could be formed there. Calling directly to those experienced tow services involved in this will guarantee that, and it has often proved to be successful. Calling through the Dispatch Association may work, but it turns out that the times of the commutes are much longer. I admit that both models are possible, but the aim of my amendment is indeed the speed of the tow. It is not certain that this association's dispatch will ensure that the aim is to save insurance money for him and it will not be (?) Quick hit. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that the pressure on towing services needs to be increased so that the reports of intervention are adequate and adequate. I also have to resist the fact that it is not true that the hit on the tow service will be slower. Experience is completely opposite. It is necessary to get familiar with the issue and the opinions and to have the situation explained further. The priority is clearly the timely intervention so that the motorway is always passable as soon as possible. Someone has to vouch for that. It's mostly about people waiting in motorcades, not about the profits of insurance companies. Given that the Ministry of Transport is also not entirely satisfied with the current state of the solution for removals from the motorway, but at the same time has spoken out against my amendment, I would like to propose, under the Rules of Procedure, § 95 para. 2 repetition of second reading and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, to present this amendment to the Road Directorate as a guarantee for the smoothness of transport, to comment on this and to complete what is lacking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u5	I thank Mr Kotta, Mr Polanský in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u6	Thank you for the floor. My contribution will be a short response to my colleague Kott's contribution, because some of the risks that... I guess we all see the need to get cars off the freeway faster. However, some of the risks that he mentioned, which is actually represented by the Ministry of Transport and the Czech insurer's office, need to be mentioned here as well. I would like to quote briefly the disapproval of the Ministry of Transport. The amendment limits the scope of the entities which the policeman may call on to remove the vehicle from the motorway only to the owner of the motorway. Currently, a vehicle constituting an obstacle to traffic on the motorway is obliged to remove at the call of a police officer either the cause of the obstacles, i.e. the driver or the owner of the highway. In doing so, the police officer examines the most appropriate solution for carrying out the tow truck and ascertains whether, if applicable, the towing service of the driver is able to ensure its timely removal, or whether it is more effective to call for the removal of the vehicle of the owner, respectively. Highway manager. The new proposal will limit this possibility. From my point of view, the quality and speed of pulling off the freeway will get worse, and the huge problem is that in this case, there will be a credit to the business of a privileged group of tow services, the one that was contracted by the RSD. A colleague here was talking about an open tender, which is something I wouldn't use in one sentence with the Road and Motorway Directorate. I warn against the significant risks of this proposal, the price increase, and I agree with the proposal to return to second reading if we want to address this in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u7	Thank you, Mr Polanský. Now, Mr Leo Luzar in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u8	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will deal with two things. The first thing that I have already opened to the Economic Committee that has discussed this proposal. We are all in some level of representation of our political parties, our opinions, and we are trying to make the best laws in the House. Many of you, I have tried out how problematic it is to write a law amendment. You'll tell me it's not easy at all. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Colleague Dolínek, through you, Mr Vice-President, has made a proposal for a pretty simple law, is his promoter, he is his bearer. You've worked many hours on this proposal. He must have consulted the lawyers. He also had to consult with other colleagues and experts, hoping that this proposal would be accepted. What happened? This proposal, of course, opens up the appropriate law to which it applies and, in my view, has been misused. Abused by other colleagues who began to raise their amendments to the proposal. Not to prepare their own proposal, to use it as a carrier, and to add further proposals to the hearing. These may be simpler proposals, perhaps more complex, but what does this mean for the Member who has prepared his own proposal? It means getting into the role that a colleague here has right now, in other words, the guarantor of the law, and he has to deal with the comments, he has to look for the Ministry's opponent, he has to deal with the proposals that those other colleagues selfishly put on his back. I find this absolutely unserious with a colleague who has decided to try to regulate the law in some, say, smaller things. I drew attention to this at the Economic Committee, and I quite strongly begged everyone -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u9	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Please, if you're discussing another subject, let us finish this one for today's final item of the third reading. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u10	I drew attention to this at the Economic Committee, and I said, I firmly believe that the proposals that we are discussing and receiving here are the last proposals that someone will use as an effort - I will use the word - to feed on the work of the other and to enforce within the House. And I also warned everyone that I firmly believe that when we agreed on the Economic Committee and we came to a consensus on the proposals that came, and we discussed this very closely, that this proposal, which has its own carrier, and it is one of our colleagues, will also be passed through this House. What did I learn this morning? I have learned that it is an attempt to return this proposal. Exactly what I've been pointing out is that there will be and that there will be abuse, and his annual work is wasted. He may return to second reading, but he may not. And I find that highly unserious on our part. Now allow me specifically on this proposal, which leads to the whole debate, why it is an attempt to return this proposal to second reading. My colleague Josef Kott's proposal, through you, is wrong. On the Economic Committee he was discussed, the opinion of the Ministry is negative. And, yes, maybe his intention was to help things, but the way they are passed on and served is wrong. There's no vote for him. As proof I can state here, it says here: the vehicle is removed to the cargo of its operator. In other words, when an operator pulls you off on a specific highway, such as the SÚS, they issue you an invoice, you pay it, because you are the vehicle operator, and you will have to ask your insurance company for reimbursement of this tow. So this point can also be read. And what's the situation today? Today, you hack anywhere in the Republic, you have insurance, and the vast majority of the insurance policies, perhaps all, ensure the tow of a non-mobile vehicle at the price of the fuse. So you just call your insurance company because there's been an accident up to a certain financial limit where you don't have to call the police - I warn you, you don't have to call the police, you just call your insurance company and she takes care of everything. You do it, she comes, she drags you away, you don't have to pay for it. [[11.30 hours]] But here is the exception that insurance companies will do it everywhere in the Republic, only someone else will do it on the highways, the police will do it. So you're going to have a minor accident on the freeway, you're going to shut down the vehicle, you know that nothing happened to anybody, it's a minor damage, you call your insurance company, she's going to tell you, of course, we're sending you a tow truck, a policeman is going to come and say no, no, no, call the insurance company back, you have nothing to say about it, because there's another law that says we have to secure it, and we have to call a specific tow service here and here. Do you understand the absurdity of the proposal? The whole Republic has a system that's been running here for a long time, and now something new is going to happen. And there'll be someone to beat. The driver, the one who's damaged who's in the accident, will be beaten for not being able to agree on a proper proposal to speed up - and here I understand the petitioner - the cleanup of a vehicle off the freeway. So let's think about it. And firstly, I really appeal to you, let us try not to add amendments to the proposals of colleagues who are preparing the bill, let us not abuse this unless it is in accordance with his wishes. And secondly, when we get back to it, let's also try to establish the facts of how it looks in time to tows and how it works there before we put forward a proposal that crashes the existing system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u11	Thank you for the performance, but we now have a factual comment by Mr Josef Kott and Mrs Věra Kovářová, duly registered. So first, Mr. Josef Kott, with a point of fact... Okay, so in that case, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová, my colleague Kott will be able to wait. But also, madam, before I give you my word, I ask the House for peace again! You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to comment on Mr Kott's amendment. Most of the reservations were addressed by the colleague before me, so I will briefly sum up that this amendment does not essentially give the police any new powers in dealing with the accident, which could be assumed to be an objective and, at the same time, restricts them. It is also a problem that it occurs - I will say it with such an ugly word - to monopolize the tow on the motorways, and what is most likely to prolong the tow time, and, of course, the policeman will have to ignore the tow that a motorist calls for, even if he is on his way, or even on the spot, and recall order the communication administrator. Of course, there is also a threat, and I also think that there is a very serious problem, that motorist, although he would have a free tow from the insurance company, one of the tows will still have to pay himself, because of course the insurance company only pays one tow. And unfortunately, the question must then be asked who is interested in going through this amendment. And at the same time, I can answer for myself. The only such ones are the contract tow trucks of the RSD, because this amendment guarantees them a greater number of calls from the RSD. So I think that this amendment could basically cause me to go back to second reading, although, of course, I would be sorry about my colleague Dolínek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Mr Josef Kott has now signed up with a point of fact. And before I give him my word, I again ask the House for peace of mind. We're at the third reading, and it's either our decision is final, or it has some peripetia, so that we know very well before we make our own decisions. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u14	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I apologized to Mr. Dolínek, because my effort was not to bring the law down or return it back to second reading. And through you to Mr. Luzar. I didn't put anything in there that was extra. I just wanted to clarify that I don't want us to wait two, three, four hours on the highway just because there's either a tow truck that doesn't have the capacity to do it, or the tow truck to the Highlands is either sent from Žate or from Frýdek-Místek somewhere over there, so it's my only interest so that the highway doesn't go there, so that when the tow truck is done, it's carried out safely and it's carried out by a company that's certified and has trained people who are available for it within 30 minutes to arrive and remove it. So there's some things we prefer to do when the association does it in 30 minutes, so it's still there, but in many cases the association hasn't been able to solve it within a few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-004-210.u15	Thank you. That was the last one entered in the debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. So now we'd be dealing with proposals. The motion to dismiss didn't fall. Isn't that right, rapporteur? [[Agreed.]] The proposal to repeat the second reading has fallen, or we must vote on it before we vote on amendments which are not. So now we have a crucial decision to return this proposal to second reading as well as the previous one. We will decide that in the 43th vote that I will begin. I'm gonna check you all out first, and I'm gonna ask you for a new registration so that, given how hard we fought in the previous point, we're clear. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide to return the proposal to second reading. I've started voting number 43 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 43, 177 for 175, against no one. The motion was returned to second reading. Thank you in that case, draftsman, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 210. By this we have exhausted the third reading for today, which had a deadline for discussion, and we will return to the block of second reading, which we started yesterday. And the interrupted point of yesterday's meeting was the point
