ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-017-069.u1	69. Proposal by Radek Vondráček, Vojtěch Pikal, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Marie Pěnčíková, Radovan Vích, Jan Farský, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Jiří Mihola to issue a law amending Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 665/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. You have received the Government's position as House Press 665/1. I prosit that the motion put forward by Vice-President Pikal as the appellant. Please, you have the floor. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-017-069.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to thank President Vondráček for entrusting me with this role as co-designer, and I would also like to thank all the co-designers who contributed to the creation of these prints. The negotiations weren't easy, maybe they were sharp. However, I think, given that the method has been chosen, that if anyone disagrees with something, it simply will not be in the proposal, so the proposal is consensual and I believe that all the co-designers have introduced you to the various provisions that are changing in your clubs, so I will not discuss this in detail. I will leave it to the rapporteur, and I will only introduce you to the more interesting parts found in the proposal. These are therefore amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and then we have to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. At this point, I am already announcing that I will propose a merger of the debates of these press, because I do not see the reason to discuss them separately. These are practically the same changes, in the case of the Senate it is really just a small thing. And so now for these individual changes, as they are presented. The first thing that is changing there is that for us Members the power is added to the Rules of Procedure, that we can ask for explanations and information not only from the administrative authorities but also from the authorities of the local government, as it is regulated in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Surely you have met in your parliamentary practice that citizens are addressing you with local problems, so this is one thing that will allow you to perform your mandate better. Another change is that the Office of the Chamber of Deputies simplifies the possibility of enforcing any fines which may be imposed on Members for inappropriate conduct or other wrongdoing if such an occurrence occurs. I am not aware that this has happened during this parliamentary term, but historically such an experience is, so it responds when disciplinary action was imposed and it was difficult to enforce it. Then some older provisions are deleted. Another important change that is happening is that the discussion of reports and other information material will primarily take place on committees, so that there won't be various informative reports for a very long time, such as a year, two years and so on, but it will be discussed by the committee, and if no one objects to it, and the protest can be raised by the club, a minority of the committee can bring it up, or a group of Members as a whole can agree that some information and reports will always want to be discussed in plenary, so if it does, then it will be discussed in plenary, and if it doesn't, then the matter will be discussed purely on the committee. So it's going to be faster, it's going to be more professional, I would say, and there's not going to be delays in some of the things that are then waiting for some legal consequences in the form of approval of the results of various agencies, etc. A similar change will then take place in international treaties, where rapid negotiations of international treaties are also possible, which should allow the House to deal quickly with certain international treaties, especially because there are deadlines and if there are no amendments to those international treaties, there is a risk of sanctions or that our legal order will not actually comply with international law, which we are already obliged to comply with, because the amendment to the treaty will also come into force regardless of whether or not we are in time to discuss it here. Finally, there is still one issue of the major changes, where you are aware that we sometimes approve that some committees, subcommittees or commissions will be established on the basis of a parity principle, but this principle is not enshrined in the Rules of Procedure, so that sometimes there are disputes about how to establish this, and it is not certain and it works purely on a political agreement. Now it is possible to set it straight and the mechanism is also said as to what the parity representation looks like. And the last change that I think will be popular is that there is a possibility of trading souvenirs so that the Office can sell some small promotional items and so on as it is customary in many other parliaments. I think it is a step to be more open to the public and, therefore, to offer visitors to Parliament who come here on a lot of excursions and the like, some more comfort and some possibility of acquiring a memorial. In fact, the same amendment is then proposed in the amendment to the Senate Rules of Procedure. So much for the introduction. As I was saying, a change is proposed so that reports and other information can be approved purely on committees. This was one of those areas where there had to be some compromise in the end, and it is announced that actually one of those shifts that occurred there is that the moment when the report or information is actually decided is the moment when the next meeting is approved, so that the time is really conformary to the fact that there is unexpectedly something approved on the committee, so that some club or minority of Members have enough time to hear from each other. And part of the agreement was that the House would subsequently adopt a resolution in accordance with the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, when it would list some specific reports, e.g. reports of the petition committee or annual reports on the activities of the Czech Television, the Czech Radio or the Czech Press Office or information submitted by the Ombudsman or the Annual Report of the Supreme Audit Office and other relevant press that it will be proposed that the House should always discuss these in plenary, because I consider these prints to be really important and it is necessary for the entire House to meet them. So that's my brief introduction. I believe you're all familiar with the proposal. These are, in fact, mostly minor technical changes that are intended to help the speed of discussion in the House, and all those issues where there was no consensus across the political spectrum, which we will possibly still be dealing with in other political negotiations, so I am also looking forward to. Thank you for your attention, please support and please join the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-017-069.u3	Thank you. I have noted the procedural proposal to merge the debate with the press 665 and 666. I have called and gonged the Members, and we will vote on this proposal without delay. We'll wait a little longer. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the procedural proposal to merge the debate on press 665 and 666. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the merger of the debate. Who's against it? In voting order number 300, 137 Members and Members, for 133, against 0, abstained from 4. The motion was accepted. We will merge the debate. At this point, we are at point - House press 665. I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-017-069.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow ministers, fellow Members, let me give you a brief report after a word from the representatives of the petitioners. The date of 9 May 2011 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 12. The This is a proposal from Radek Vondráček, Vojtěch Pikal, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Marie Pěnčíková, Radovan Vích, Jan Farský, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Jiří Mihola to issue a law amending Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. The government has discussed this amendment 18. 12. 2019 and adopted a favourable opinion. This amendment, which is tabled by Members, is a compromise proposal which arose from several meetings of the Working Party on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies set up under the auspices of the President, which is composed of authorised representatives of all the Members' Clubs, the Ministry of Justice, the Legislative Department of the Chamber Office and the organisation of the State Reconstruction. The draft of this law took into account the reservations expressed by Members in the discussion of a similar draft law, which was the press 347, during this parliamentary term. Compared to the above proposal, the proposal for this law is presented in a narrower form, although it newly contains some other minor amendments of a rather technical type or amendments inspired by the amendments tabled. The bill is presented on the basis of a political agreement reached in the Chamber of Deputies between representatives of the parliamentary clubs. The aim of this bill is to regulate procedural rules which respond to the needs of the House of Deputies, and the petitioners propose that the bill be discussed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 90 para. 2 to 6 of the House's Rules of Procedure Act, so that the Chamber of Deputies has already agreed with the proposal at first reading. So much for my brief intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-017-069.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open House Press 666, item number
