ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws /house print 673/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. I ask you, Minister, to take the floor, and at the same time I would like to ask all my colleagues and colleagues once again to keep order in the hall, if they have anything to discuss, to go to the lobby. One more time, please calm down! All of them! Or I'll be forced to interrupt the meeting until you calm down! [[It's ringing with a bell.]] I don't feel like the noise's gonna change. One more time, please calm down! Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce one of the most important laws of the Department of Transport, the long-awaited, so-called Line Act, or Fourteen. As I pointed out here at first reading, this is a law aimed at implementing or facilitating faster and more efficient construction preparation, not only of transport, but of water and energy infrastructure as well as of electronic communications infrastructure. So it is a law that is extremely demanding, a law that is part of three departments, and that is industry, transport and local development. [[The noise in the hall continues.]] Given that this is indeed a fundamental law, I will allow myself once again to take out the most important things worth mentioning and thanks to which we should, I believe, all with the same aim, to ensure that the key constructions, whether transport or energy, will be implemented more quickly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u3	I'll stop you for a moment. You really can't hear what's being lectured here! I'm asking you to calm down! You guys who don't have the chance to hold on and not disturb the others, get out! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u4	One of the first things the law solves is common so-called. location and permit of transport infrastructure construction. At the same time, the proposal eliminates a number of different binding opinions, from which I would like to mention, for example, the environmental impact assessment. Furthermore, it enters directly into the administrative order and establishes a general basic principle of the issue of a binding opinion without delay and, at the same time, a new deadline is set, up to a maximum of 30 days for the issue of a binding opinion or 60 days in specially complex cases. At the same time, it introduces solutions through the so-called the fiction of the issue of a favourable binding opinion in the event of a failure to deliver a binding opinion within the time limit laid down. The Act also addresses the expropriation law and proposes to speed up expropriation proceedings for these purposes, namely the establishment of clear deadlines for certain procedural procedures. I have already touched on the fact that the law itself enters the construction law to a greater extent and implements partial changes in the administrative order, in a number of other laws - about roads, nature and landscape protection, the energy law, precisely the law on expropriation and a number of other laws and other laws. It is also worth mentioning that it addresses the area, or simplifies, the valuation of land and buildings, which are therefore necessary for the construction of the particular transport infrastructure, and this change calculates that expert opinions will be drawn up in such a way that it is proposed explicitly to allow the production of only one opinion for more land. Other requirements concern, for example, the issue of the cancellation of railway crossings. Specific criteria shall be established. The law also affects energy by proposing to extend the possibility of using the Institute for interim decisions, namely the construction of water and energy infrastructure. Electronic communications provide for simpler procedures, if the construction of electronic communications is carried out as so-called. sign, with the fact that no permit under the construction law will then be required, or a binding opinion under the Act on Monument Care, thus speeding up construction. At the same time, a number of other instruments are being introduced, whether it be a territorial development plan, which will be linked to territorial development policy. A state design office will be set up to deal with both the design and policies of territorial development and its update. It is also proposed to create a national land-planning geoportal, which will be an information system for public administration on the planning section. I had the opportunity to attend the meeting of the Economic Committee, where several dozen amendments were discussed. I have to say, and I have to say very highly, that it was a non-ideological and non-political discussion, that it was very reasonable, and in general I had a very good impression of it. I believe that we are all aware of the importance and seriousness of this law, however I understand that there will probably be dozens of different amendments and that, of course, this will be a political debate, so I am glad that only the point discussed or the amendment that was introduced after I joined the Transport Ministry, because it is true that at the time before I did so, in particular, from an industrial point of view. On the other hand, I see this law as absolutely fundamental and perhaps in a slightly different context now, and that is why I have done my utmost to do this, and I have supported that one of the amendments tabled by Mr Kolovratník, who dealt with the implementation of the so-called Polish road, someone calls it a German road, was raised, with the fact that the vote on the Economic Committee took place specifically on this perhaps most monitored point from the whole of the law in the number of twenty to fifteen in the sense of this amendment. [[14.40 hours]] This fills me with some optimism in that so-called. Polish, or if we want a German regime that is based on the fact that at the moment of the territorial decision and the associated building permit it is possible to start the construction, with a parallel discussion of the purchase or expropriation, i.e. in a similar or virtually similar regime. from a legal point of view the same, however, is going in parallel both the construction and this discussion without violating anything from an economic point of view for those who will collect future resources either in the context of a proper purchase or in the context of expropriation, or the so-called. eight times as a buyout, not one and a half times as a buyout, respectively. it is adjusted for the benefit of the person concerned. [[Big noise in the hall.]] So the Polish road is clearly functioning. If we look at what their so-called. The miracle of building transport infrastructure, I mean in Poland, since 2000, is given by this very fact, and this is because these activities have merged, these activities and are not expected in many cases for several years. So I consider it very important. A number of these other amendments were very sensible, something was approved, something was not approved, there will undoubtedly be a debate on this in the second reading, and I am, of course, ready to answer all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u5	Thank you, Minister. And now we're at second reading. At first reading, we ordered the Committee on Economic Affairs to be discussed as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 673/1 and 2. And I will ask the rapporteur of Mr Kolovratník's committee to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. The rest that hasn't left the O.R., again, please calm down and allow for an undisturbed performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. I will make my speech as brief as possible in order to give you the opportunity, colleagues and colleagues, to present your individual amendments. I will just say that the Economic Committee finally met at the end of the coronation on 19 May, when it discussed the proposals that we Members have tabled in the direction of the committee, some of them have not accepted. Colleagues who have been present know the content, everything is ready and presented to the House for discussion in a resolution marked 673/2. The minister mentioned the most important amendment, I see the matter as well as he did. It is a proposal that I prepared together after discussion with the Ministry of Transport and especially with the Polish Ministry of Transport, it is called. Polish method. She really - and it is important here to explain very simply, we will then explain it in the third reading - moves the moment itself to start the construction or issue a building permit before the final settlement of the property law preparation, i.e. There will be no need to wait for redemption. expropriation of all land, it will be possible to apply for the right of construction, to start the application for the Office concerned as soon as the previous permits, i.e. EIA, territorial proceedings and building permits are completed. And it is important to remind you that this is such a big and revolutionary breakthrough in the construction and in the rights of owners that we have reached a political agreement for which I want to thank, because we have really received support from colleagues from the opposition, which I very much appreciate. We agreed that we would apply this only to the state's strategic buildings defined in the original Section 1 of the Act, which are motorways and roads of the first class and the national railways and constructions related to them. So many discussions on the Economic Committee. As rapporteur, I am now saying that in this already extensive amendment, you, Members, have tabled further 42 amendments at the moment. Unfortunately, as rapporteur, I must say, those who are like a copycat and who have failed on the Economic Committee and are exactly the same, so I will probably not support them, I can say this already in advance, but on the contrary - and please take this as an illustration example - there are still proposals that have been modified. I can illustrate Mr Třešňák's amendment, which supports electromobility, faster construction of small or large charging stations. We have worked, or a colleague who worked together with the Ministry of Industry, to arrive at the correct legislative version, and this is also an example of a proposal which I will certainly support for myself on the Economic Committee and which I believe will eventually receive support. For my part, I also note that I also have four individual proposals prepared by the third reading. They come out of my debate with the Ministry of Industry and express some support for energy. But I will not take advantage of the space to speak only as rapporteur for this purpose, and I will join them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention. And the latest information from the rapporteur, we expect this bill to be discussed next week on the Economic Committee on 10 June. We should therefore, if the will of the House is to manage the third reading of this law in fourteen days in that variable week of meeting of this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u7	Thank you. And I'm opening up a general debate. Vice-President Okamura is registered with priority rights at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we are amending the law that won last spring in the poll of the Law of the Year announced annually by Deloitte. This law was adopted in 2009, in order to simplify the authorisation processes and speed up the construction of line construction. At the time of its creation it contained only a few brief provisions and was intended primarily for construction of transport infrastructure. Since then, it's been amended seven times, now it's probably the eighth time. The aim of the law itself is to make the legal regulation of the authorisation procedure more effective for the most important constructions of transport infrastructure. In fact, the law constitutes a special arrangement for the institutes contained in the construction law and the expropriation law. Dear Government, one of the few things on which this House agrees across the board is that the approval of buildings in the Czech Republic is extremely long, demanding and over-enthusiastic, as well as many other levels of civil and corporate life. This special law is actually a patch that tries to seal some holes from time to time, solve some current problem. Surely this law will pass because we all welcome every simplification, and the SPD will support it. But couldn't the government please start working systematically to simplify these fundamental laws? It is not only about simplifying the construction process and strategic projects, it would be welcomed by normal mortals, if construction regulations were simplified, by normal citizens who are building a family house, and perhaps by developers who build housing complexes. It is quite clear that, apart from the unnecessary lengthening of bad laws, they are also expensive. The YES movement is led by the Ministry of Regional Development, which has been in charge of the construction law for six years, well, for almost eight years. And even in this long time, the YES movement and the government have not been able to submit an amendment to the construction law. It is widely known that the length and complexity of building procedures belong to the Czech Republic among developing countries, and this is a real shame and it bothers most citizens of the Czech Republic that when they or family members or friends want to build a family house or some other construction, the length of the management, the number of formalities, as you know, and according to world rankings, the Czech Republic ranks among developing countries. It's a disgrace. The government's inaction is really a disgrace. There are elections to the Chamber of Deputies in a year, and even after almost seven years, there is no bill on the table to simplify building procedures for citizens. And once again, here you have, fellow government colleagues, a simple recipe for helping people without costing the state money. Don't complicate the lives of businesses and citizens with bureaucracy. Let's simplify not only the building bill, and people will have more in their pockets without you having to reach into our public pocket. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u9	Thank you. I'll read an apology. For health reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for today's meeting. There. And now Mrs Ožanová is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u10	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. At the meeting of the Economic Committee on this press, it was not sufficiently convincing to explain why the changes also concern the Education Act, the Higher Education Act and the Administrative Code. Moreover, these laws were not dealt with by the relevant committees, I mean the Education Committee and the Constitutional and Legal Committee. For this reason, I believe that these could be stickers. However, I assume that this should still be discussed at the meeting of the Economic Committee, which is why, together with my colleague Květa Matušovská, I have tabled two amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u11	Thank you. Mr Dolínek will be next. Mr Polanský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u12	Good afternoon, Mr President. Dear colleagues, we are both with the rapporteur and the Minister de facto, we can say that we have promised not to put too many amendments aside from what has been agreed, but the amendment which I would like to introduce under number 5395 concerns electromobility and I am signed under the proposal given here by colleague Třešňák, but one proposal is a little narrower, the other a little wider, so I have decided to give this option to at least be able to accept one here at the third reading. We need to realise that development in the field of electromobility is important, among other things, from the point of view of fulfilling the obligations of the Czech Republic, which we have signed in the framework of international agreements, such as the International Agreement on the Reduction of Carbon dioxide Production, the Paris Agreement, and in a number of others and others. As you may have noticed from your normal life, although a number of people two years ago had foretold that electromobility would not take place in the Czech Republic, you can see from day-to-day traffic that it took hold, and I would also like to say that by voting on the electronic road sign, where it actually gave an advantage to electromobility, the legislator could give promise to the residents of the Czech Republic that he meant serious support for electromobility. On this basis, of course, the electromobility that we support, and we have done so with a clear step, we need to make infrastructure. Many of you also work in municipalities and regions, and you know how difficult it is to build a charging point somewhere. One thing is to agree with an investor who builds a business center to create rechargeable points, the other is how to get a charging point into the building and how to go through the construction process. Based on this, because I know that we already have more than 2,000 electric cars in the Republic at the moment, we wanted to see how they are differentiated, and the economic committee got a table from the Ministry of Transport up to individual types of these cars, so you can definitely ask your colleagues from the committee to distinguish what cars they are, and they are cars across the financial spectrum, they are not just luxury cars, they are standard cars for use, we have only a few hundred public charging stations. This means in practice that this is certainly not enough for the existing demand, and it will certainly not be sufficient for the demand that will occur in the next few years. According to some analyses, over EUR 20 billion in Europe will have to be invested in order to build the necessary charging infrastructure for electromobility, and I think that if this programme is supported, it is good that it can be supported in the Czech Republic without unnecessary delays. I therefore propose that in that law, in Part 21 of Article 24 a new point 52 should be inserted after point 51, which reads: 52. In Article 79, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 at the end of point (t), the dot is replaced by a comma and the following point (u) is added: I would like to conclude by saying that if, however, there was an agreement on a proposal that would be presented by colleague Třešňák, and, as I mentioned, I was also involved in him, or I was with his co-signing, I would be very happy. But this version is minimalistic enough to help electromobility somehow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u13	Thank you and please Mr Polanský, who is in the debate. Mrs Balcarová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u14	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, kind government. As has already been shown by the debate on the Economic Committee, according to the Pirát, the current proposal contains a number of problematic provisions, which, on the one hand, will undoubtedly speed up the construction of transport infrastructure, but at a price that we do not think we should be willing to pay. That is why we are proposing several amendments, which I will now briefly introduce to you, and I will then sign up for them later in a detailed debate. First of all, it is House document 5330, which abolishes the deepening of the so-called fiction of a binding position, which has not been properly justified on how serious the instrument is. The claims from the explanatory memorandum are too general and so vague that it is not worthy of professionals from three ministries. Moreover, this concept tries to treat the symptom, not the cause of the problem. We're not trying to get to the bottom of what expressions take a long time and why, we're just kind of setting them a dull limit. But the greatest risk of this construct is that it will allow officials to avoid responsibility for the issue of politically undesirable opinions. Under House document 5331, there is an amendment to the introduction of an insurance policy so that the person who by expropriation loses his residence will receive compensation at a rate for which he will be able to buy new housing, and thus do not remain unhappy behind our laboriously built highways, broken people. Under House document 5332 is the abolition of the provision according to which the construction office could freely elect a builder for larger buildings. We consider these provisions to be proclientelistic and having no measurable impact on the acceleration of construction. Under House document 5333 there is the introduction of a policy for the investor's entry into foreign land for research work, which the owners no longer have an influence on after the last amendment of 2018. This provision is, by the way, also contested by the Constitutional Court. We are not proposing to return the situation to the time before the 2018 amendment, but instead we are attempting to compromise when the local construction office will allow entry to the property for all criteria to be met in a simple one-stage procedure. Finally, these are proposals to remove some of the buildings from the annex to the Act, which is also attacked by the Constitutional Court, and specifically those where it is undesirable for them to be subject to accelerated expropriation and to some kind of restriction of dialogue with the public, since they are not dealt with by major shortcomings either in terms of effectiveness or environmental impact, and therefore it does not make sense to include them between constructions with a facilitated possibility of expropriation this early. This is specifically House document 5334, which removes the waterworks Skalička from the proposal, and House document 5335, which removes the waterworks Nové Heřminovy. In addition, and this will be presented by colleague Třešňák, the proposal contains further amendments to start the development of electromobility. Petr Dolínek spoke of it a moment ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u15	Thank you. I will ask Mrs Balcarová, then Mr Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in connection with the so-called acceleration law, today we call it the Linen Act, two things. For one thing, it concerns the list of works annexed to or contained in this amendment. Originally, this law was actually amended, the Line Act, so that it would include accelerating the construction of critical transport infrastructure, such as motorways and railway structures. The pirát clearly agree with this, because they realize that this is a need, especially when we place emphasis on the construction of high-speed lines of these corridors, which are very important for transport to be more low-emission than currently. So one thing I'm headed for is that there's also a new Temelín nuclear block and a new Dukovany nuclear block in the list of transport structures that will be processed under this law. I am not sure that for such important buildings, which are absolutely unique in terms of financial costs and also the complexity and safety of construction, it is good to proceed really in an accelerated regime. I'm far from sure of that, and I'd say no. The next thing I know, my previous speaker has stumbled upon it, that there are three waterworks, three dams, which I don't think are absolutely necessary to deal with in such an accelerated regime. My colleague from the Pirate Party Polanský will make an amendment to remove Skalička's waterworks. I am not sure whether the waterworks of Vlachovice or Nové Heřmina should be the contents of this novel as well. So that's one thing. And the second thing I would like, first of all, to return to this amendment with the help of my amendment is public participation in the building procedure. It is clear to me that the aim of this amendment is to shorten the approval process of the construction, but we have talked about it several times here, there is no analysis that proves that the participation of the public in the territorial and construction proceedings extends. Rather, it is the contrary, because if the public or non-governmental organisations do not participate in the authorisation process and cannot apply their objections in this authorisation process, then they have the opportunity to express themselves by means of an action and that is a much more lengthy process. If they participate in building and territorial proceedings, they may withdraw if they are dissatisfied with the settlement of their objections and comments, and the appeal takes one month. In the event that they do not have this option, they will actually use an interest they consider to be of public interest or an interest in protecting the environment, which is an entirely marginal instrument and should not be used just because they have no other, softer, which is far from time-consuming. So, by means of my amendment, I am trying to get public participation in building and territorial proceedings in this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u17	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. I will ask Mr Kupka, who is enrolled in the debate. Mr. Mr. Třešňák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u18	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my dear colleagues, I would like to present to you a total of seven amendments aimed at simplifying and speeding up the construction process in general, aimed at facilitating at the same time the expansion of modern communications networks in the Czech Republic, in particular optical fibre networks. Right away, the first amendment addresses the easiest storage of fibre lines along roads in particular II. and III. classes, but also along motorways and according to the roads of the I. class. Inspiration comes from a number of European countries. At present, Czech legislation makes it significantly difficult to easily lay a network of optical fibres along the side of the road, simply because the investor would have to prove that any other management, any other storage, besides the auxiliary road body, is extremely economical. This, of course, constitutes an important obstacle in itself. That is why what happens elsewhere in the world, when modern technology succeeds in laying along roads II. and III. classes of kilometers of new fiber optic networks, so far the Czech Republic simply does not allow. A simple regulation of the law would lead to simplification for the Czech Republic in this respect and would facilitate what we are waiting for. Fortunately, the Czech Republic has a quite decent backbone network of fiber optics. Where the shoe pushes us, there is the connection of more remote places, smaller settlements in the order of three to ten thousand inhabitants and smaller municipalities. At a time when Czech legislation could be adapted in this way, it would mean that it could be significantly faster and significantly cheaper without any negative impact on the environment, without any other unnecessary bureaucratic claim, so that it would be easier to place optical fibres along roads II. and III. Class. Another amendment is actually from a similar family, it is based on the experience of the regions of the Czech Republic, where at the moment cable pipes are not part of the road body. It is to some extent an administrative obstacle. In a simple way, the amendment puts the term "cable line" into the form of the law, in other words, a protector, simply any technological device that will allow the fibre to be stretched out in the future or any other concrete cable. The great advantage also for saving public funds is that it will be much easier to rebuild roads, when building roads directly into the body of the communication, it will not require any new administrative procedure, and it will therefore be possible to proceed much faster. It represents a reduction of bureaucratic burdens, it represents a significant savings on the part of public funds, both on the part of the regions themselves developing an intensive initiative in this direction, but it also means significant savings on the part of municipalities and cities, but also on the part of the state itself, because they are all investors who are building communication, and adding cable lines to the road body would be significant aid in this regard. Another amendment introduces the term "agricultural engineer" among the dedicated activities in the construction sector. Here we follow up on the approved form of digitization of the building management, when a digital technical map is created. In the following years, this should take a huge step in ensuring that we have as accurate an overview of the territory as possible so that the reality of technical infrastructure can be easily captured at individual points in all municipalities and cities. However, in order to obtain quality data and not to have a digital technical map, we will not have quality data in it, precisely specifying the role of surveyor will allow and will guarantee the most accurate form of the data. The other two amendments address in another way what has already been mentioned, namely the fiction of a binding consenting position. After consulting lawyers, we propose a variant which, in our opinion, is more legislative. It does not refer to any other binding position arising from fiction, in this case, in agreement, but that, at the time when the time limits for the decision in question are fulfilled in vain, a kind of presumption of consent applies to the issue of the binding opinion in question. It means that it is considered that it is possible to proceed further and that all the requirements of the law at that time have been fulfilled. [[15.10 hours]] Another amendment... with the fact that the other option then represents not only an intervention in the construction law, but generally in the entire administrative order, so that the assumption applied not only to the construction proceedings, but generally to everything concerning the administrative order. The next amendment only minorly regulates the cases of the fiction of consent when, according to the government proposal, the fiction of the binding consent position is fulfilled, so the superior administrative authorities have a year to issue a binding opinion which will be valid under the laws and which will disturb the original fiction issued by the binding opinion if it does not comply with the law. This is where the model has been counting on one year so far. However, we believe that that one year's deadline for a possible withdrawal of the opinion issued by fiction means a serious legal uncertainty for all developers who could start to act on the basis of the fictions given by the consent opinion, they could start building and thus create significant damage. Finally, the last amendment concerns a matter that has already been laid down in the House, and that is the abolition of one unnecessary stamp. In the amendment of the construction law valid from 1. 1. 2018 was the new obligation of builders to obtain a consent opinion, respectively. binding opinion of the zoning authorities. At the time, it was justified by the fact that order had to be made in order to decide whether or not to comply with the urban plan of the municipality or city concerned, and that competence was transferred by the legislators to the municipal planning authority with extended scope. What was the result? We all know that one. It is known mainly by builders who have been waiting often since then for the issue of territorial consent, territorial decision or merged territorial and building permit for four, five, six months. In places where they're building intensively, the deadline is extended, and it's still this long. 504 days tells me Ivan Adamec, this is the real result of a law change that actually seemed innocent, was to bring order to the building process. The result is that because of this adjustment, because of this unnecessary stamp, we fell again by several places in the length of the construction procedure. At that moment there is a simple solution - the stamp without refund to cross off. I assure you that nothing negative will happen at all, on the contrary, the construction proceedings will accelerate again. Compliance with the zoning plan will be decided again by the relevant municipal construction office, in most cases the one who sees the best in the territory, who does not lack local knowledge, who is very quickly oriented about what the zoning plan allows and what can be made possible for the builders in this case. The repeal of Section 96b, i.e. the binding opinion of the zoning authorities, means a specific simplification of the construction procedure, a specific simplification of the construction law, which will not be necessary to wait for months to come, but which can be implemented immediately. This simplification would not only be for big developers, for big builders, but, to be honest, for thousands of small builders who need only land or who need to build only small construction, it would mean a significant acceleration and relief from unnecessary administrative steps. For those who have built, or are building, and are going to build at this time, it would be important for all of them to report that we are able to really simplify laws, that we are able to make changes that do not endanger public interests in any way, but ensure a faster course of administrative management, a concrete proposal on how to accelerate investment in the Czech Republic, how to make life easier for people, how to make building procedures even in the various world comparisons, how to make building procedures in the Czech Republic more flexible, simpler and better. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u19	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mr Ondřej Babka apologizes today between 15 and 17 o'clock for personal reasons. And I'll ask Mr. Třešňák. Mr. Birke will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u20	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, if we are talking about speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure, it is good to repeat what is its future, virtually. now already part of passenger transport. I will follow up on Mr Dolínek's speech. If I ignore the very change in the concept of organization of transport of persons, whether bulk or individual, it is already technically clear that development in the following years has a common denominator, and thus is electromobility, not only because of the objectives and limits on which the European Union has agreed, whatever we can think of them, but mainly because of the dependence of the Czech Republic on automotive industry. However, the subject of the development of electromobility is therefore somewhat broader and it is probably not necessary to discuss in detail here technically. Yet one factor is absolutely crucial and it is infrastructure. In order to expand it, we must further simplify the administration of the construction of charging stations, which is actually claimed by government documents, virtually. National Clean Mobility Action Plan. Every battery vehicle needs its drawer. And it is in cities that about 70 percent of vehicles park in public space without the possibility of connecting the car to the network. This is mainly prevented by legislative interpretation, according to which a self-contained charging station is a device fulfilling the function of the construction, which is basically nonsense in terms of connection to the low voltage network and is actually a form of intelligent extension device. That is why we have put forward proposals together with other representatives of several Members' clubs, which make this much easier, in two options: first by releasing the need for a building permit, second by releasing it from territorial consent. This includes thanks to the Ministry for preparing final formulas. I will then sign up for these two proposals in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u21	Thank you. Mr. Birke is next. Mr. Adamec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear members of the government, Mr Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I will try to be very brief. First of all, I would like to thank Vice Prime Minister Havlíček's Prime Minister for the preparation of 40,14 as in general as it is said, first of all, for the fact that... not only his work, but also to appreciate the first standard that we prepared, in principle, in agreement with all the political parties that sat in the Chamber of Deputies, that is, let's say, on business, we agreed to create a list of buildings that have a so-called government priority when I put it simply. I was present at the meeting of the Economic Committee, where there was a very erudite, highly qualified debate, where a number of amendments fell at second reading, when the Economic Committee commented on individual proposals. In his opening words, of course, the Vice Prime Minister mentioned this. I must say that the most ambitious plan was actually from the rapporteur's pen, Mr Kolovratník, when we approach the Polish model in principle. And I have to say that by expressing an opinion, and now I don't know exactly how it was voted, but it was more or less adopted by a relatively large majority, so on the other hand, the list was not adopted, virtually. change or cancel the list. And I'm very glad. So let me - in a detailed debate I will apply to the amendment - make it easy to justify the inclusion of a new point. I discussed it with Mr. Vice Prime Minister. It is at the request of the Minister of Agriculture, Minister Toman, to put a new point in the 400th, in this Act on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, and these are actually waterworks. We can, of course, discuss this, discuss whether it is necessary or not. I don't want to have a political debate, and I don't want to have a... I'm just suggesting a new point, virtually. eighth - or so, forgive me, until the 36th point actually the eighth point, which is the water infrastructure, and include it, as has been said by my predecessors, the waterworks of Nové Heřmin, the waterworks of Skalička, the waterworks of Vlachovice, the waterworks of Kryra, the waterworks of Senomata and the waterworks of Šanov. [[15.20 hours]] So in other words, this is, as I have already said, at the request of Minister Toman in terms of adopting the amendment, and I firmly hope that next week 10. 6. we will once again have a very fundamental debate on this issue on the Economic Committee and I think it is an erudite debate. And I look forward, of course, to discuss and approve this, let's say, key law for the acceleration of transport infrastructure, whatever. Because those of you who have experience writing orders and finding stamps from the point of view of self-government as mayors, you probably know, and we all know what we're talking about, that not only the preparation of the construction is often not for nine months or a year, but often for several years. So thank you for your support for my amendment and thank you for your attention. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u23	Thank you. I will ask Mr Adamec to prepare Mr Jiránek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to submit an amendment today, but I would like to comment on the way we are discussing this bill here, because I think it is not entirely happy. By the way, right now, my colleague Birke here said that we are going to expand the attachment to waterworks, so I would like to point out that this may be a big problem, because we all realize that drought has entered the Czech Republic, but waterworks have such a resistance between the public that it can provoke a lot of lawsuits to the Constitutional Court, and I would worry about that. Otherwise it is legitimate, the annex was made so that once a year, once every two years in the House, the strategic objectives of the Czech Republic in terms of the construction of infrastructure structures will be discussed, I understand, which is why we wanted to keep it there. Anyway, it's just a comment about what I just heard here. It's not as innocent as colleague Birke here was telling us. As for this most important law. You know, I have a slightly different idea than the Minister actually came before us. But on the other hand, I must say that he is not the one who prepared this bill from his position as Minister of Transport, that was his predecessor. And I'm a little sorry about how it got ready. That's what we have to say here. Because if it's such an important law, and it is, I see it as important, and now there are elements that weren't there at all, which I think are also important, but I think that when this bill is being prepared, it should be prepared to come here in the form in which it comes out. I know it may be fiction, it may belong to the fantasy realm, but we all know the old joke about what a camel is - it's a horse that goes through the legislative process in the House and the Senate, virtually. in Parliament of the Czech Republic. And I don't think this law deserves it. It's got to be said that it's really not funny, we're way behind on the world. And when we talk about the Polish model, it has to be said that it is only partially a Polish model. I would imagine it even sharper, because if we want to build, complete the road network, build an infrastructure network, and now I mean it doesn't matter if it's energy or if it's virtual networks, it really doesn't matter at this point, so it should be prepared so that the bill will come here, the coalition will say, that's right, that's what we want, and they will negotiate with opposition leaders that, beyond special reasons, no more amendments will be included. Maybe it's a fantasy I'm saying here, about the experiences we all have here at the House, someone shorter, someone longer, but I think that's the way it was supposed to be. On the other hand, I say that the bill has come without testing the parliamentary version that has also been made, the basis, at the Ministry of Transport, let's face it. But actually, tonight, the fiction is more of a whip to those who are struggling and who don't want to. I have to say on the Polish road - I had a different idea. I had an idea that the state would arrange a zoning decision, and then it would compete. Because the company that gets the job can do the rest better, faster, happier, and eventually cheaper for them. And it actually works, it's very fast. We stayed halfway there when we say we have to do all the work of the construction law and only the company that wins the tender can start building without having settled the property disputes. I think it's a good move, but in my opinion, it's an insufficient shift. And why do I see it that way? The reason I see it is because when I look at the state's deadlines, how he handles the construction process, I'm not really happy about it. I've been ready to interpel here for about six months now for the Minister, she was meant for his predecessor, Minister Kremlík. And that's where I'm talking about it. How is it possible that the State through the Road and Motorway Directorate is unable to supply all documents for the territorial management of 504 days? It's not normal! And any excuses they've written in response - and I think it's written by someone from ŘSD, not from the Ministry - any excuses are useless! It's just the time limits speak for themselves. And now I'll tell you another seed bead: A few months ago, we obtained a territorial procedure, our construction office, on the first attempt, without appeal to the Children of Earth and similar institutions and various such interest associations. What's going on? I just read in the paper that they're gonna buy out. Well, that's a few months after the zoning decision is effective. What have the officials been doing for months? I'll tell you, nothing! And they're gonna say they were preparing it. Well, that's pretty cool, so I think we actually have one part, one part, the end. But the course of the preparation, that's what we're still missing. And I think, of course, we're going to say that there's an amendment to the construction law, and we're going to see what happens to that amendment to the construction law. My experience says that every amendment to the construction law was worse than the previous one. She was more complicated than the last one, and she had more paragraphs than the last one. Because he's the one who fights bureaucracy, removing bureaucracy is a big deal! It doesn't seem like it, but suddenly everyone who can talk into it starts saying, "But this has to be here because it can't be done without it!" Look at some of the laws of the First Republic that dealt with these things! Look at other countries deal with this! You successful country! It's definitely not like that. It's not like the more strips, the bigger Adidas! The more stamps, the quality of the building will certainly not be better! So I wanted to say that, of course, this in the form in which the agreement was made on the economy, I'm willing to support it. However, other amendments that will pass here today, virtually. They'll be loaded, it's unacceptable to me! Unacceptable. And it's to think about how to apply these bills so that they're really effective, to fulfil the purpose for which we're actually discussing these amendments here, for the purpose why they were put forward. And otherwise it doesn't matter! And now such a seed bead: We have approved on the Economic Committee, respectively. They recommended for approval of the Chamber of Deputies to change the purchase prices of real estate from 1.15 to 1.5, I have a hunch. And now, take that these buildings are in progress, now they're going to buy out, and in the meantime, this law will come into force. So what's it gonna be like when he sells the part for 1.15 and the other part waits for 1.5. We're gonna speed up the construction? I don't know, maybe if we approve the Polish model and everyone waits for the 1.5! Those are the nuances, the little things that need to be explained here. Otherwise, the folk creativity that's here really creates more problems than benefits, in my opinion. So, ladies and gentlemen, I see the need to speed up line construction. By the way, without good law, we can't build a single high-speed railroad. Let's face it! When someone's talking, when they're not sleeping or watching that there's gonna be fast trains and stuff, I'm telling you, they just won't be without quality legislation! And quality legislation as a preparation year is not enough for that, let's just say! [[15.30 hours]] So I would ask that next time, just when the most important laws are going to come here, that they should be well prepared, and I do not blame the Minister, he did not present him, this bill still, so that it is prepared so that we here, of course, assess the quality of the material that is presented to us, but we had no reason to give us dozens of amendments to get the camel out of the horse. In this case, it's counterproductive, and if we're gonna build and not just talk, someone's talking, I'm politely raised, talk, let's do it this way. Otherwise, it doesn't matter. Otherwise, of course, at the third reading, the amendments will be decided on. Finally, I hope that common sense will prevail, although sometimes I think that everyone has it somewhere else, and that is what it is, of course, and that what comes out will be of use to the Czech Republic and its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u25	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. I thank Mr Adamc. Mr Jiránek is now ready to speak, and Dana Balcarová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u26	Hello, colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief. I have prepared an amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, which concerns the establishment of services for the construction of communication networks, that is to say primarily on the Internet, on land of the state, state organisations and local authorities. My proposal is a reduction in the need for bureaucracy, the whole process of networking will accelerate a little bit. In addition, the adoption of this amendment will allow full digitalisation of the creation of services, which will further reduce the costs associated with the administration of services. If necessary, you will find more detailed reasons directly in the House document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u27	I thank Mr Martin Jiránek. Now, Mrs Dana Balcarová, so far the last one entered into... I see, therefore, that is not the last one entered into the general debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention here in particular the design of the construction of a dam, which I mentioned in my previous performance, and this is a dam in Nové Heřminovy. I've been studying the groundwork for this, and I may have found a reason, or it's a little weird, why this building, which is essentially not significant as far as protection from drought is concerned. Originally planned in the 1950s as a dam to protect Krnov from 100 years of water. That's how it's conceived. And in the documents I have at my disposal, I read that the local council and citizens were not really familiar with the preparation of this project, and only in 2007-2008, when they got the documents available, they opposed it. There was a local referendum, and the result of that referendum is that the people are against construction, which means that any other council will have to act in all the processes against the construction of this dam. And I wonder if the promoter of this novel is aware that it places a building there that is not welcome to local residents who will not allow such a thing to be built there voluntarily. So I'm wondering why this dam is included there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u29	Thank you, Mrs Dana Balcarová, now Mr Lukáš Černohorský and then Mr Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u30	Thank you for the floor. As far as this law is concerned, the proposed changes are not the result of any proper analysis, but, again, rather, the feeling that, for things that could possibly be shortened, which would be understandable for a parliamentary change, there is basically no more detailed analysis and that the explanatory report does not correspond to several months' work by professionals from three ministries. Very often, such necessary or drastic changes need to be supported by some arguments, not only arguments in general, for example, that the period for issuing binding opinions by the authorities concerned creates considerable time delays in existing practice and prolongs the authorisation processes. I would expect that, for example, in the explanatory report, there will be some figures with examples so that we can accept this change and know that, even if we are expanding them for example in those buildings, we are quite drastically interfering with citizens' rights, so it is bought out by some corresponding change. The petitioners did not even show any indication of an attempt to understand why this is so, why this extension is taking place on the part of the state administration. There has been no proper analysis of the effects of the 2018 amendment that we have been preparing here as Members. The mechanisms introduced by this amendment did not often have a chance to manifest themselves in practice, are not measured or evaluated. Yet here we are facing another fundamental change, in which these mechanisms and interventions are deepening again into the rights of citizens. In his opinion, Dr. Mazanec, President of the Supreme Administrative Court, summarized this: However primarily sectoral adjustment is to be done, it also interferes with the general rule of law. This is another series of interventions that bring chaos, if not already, so at least deepen legal uncertainty as to the interpretation and application of changed or newly introduced institutes, as well as the risk of the lack of consistency of the changes made and the resulting contradictions and other interpretation problems. Some of the acceleration measures are either too aggressive or, on the contrary, do not have a significant impact on the acceleration. They may possibly cause the appropriate permit to be obtained more quickly, it seems positive, but on the other hand, we then push the problem to later, for example, a proposal for simplified building documentation, when we move the problem to later times, and it essentially floats into the form of, for example, later litigation, or, on the contrary, if you were building any building, the preparation of detailed documentation is significantly more effective for subsequent implementation, because without it you will often have to redesign or supplement the documentation. On the contrary, instead of speeding up, we may extend the whole preparation considerably. What happened to us a moment ago, other buildings are inserted in the annex to the law according to a completely unclear key. For example, some roads are often inadequately justified. For example, why are nuclear power stations attached to this law? Or are constructions that have not solved the fundamental conceptual issues, especially waterworks? There are no criteria for what a strategic structure is, and in addition, constitutionality is assessed by the Constitutional Court in this annex of the law. Given the potential risks, much of the proposed measures are justified in a very unsatisfactory manner and I do not think that we should adopt this law in this form. So I'm making a motion to dismiss him. In the event that it failed, I would therefore like to present you with five amendments. I'll start with the light. The interim decision was in the Act 416/2009 Coll. Incarcerated as a response to the fact that some specific key transport structures have a problem with the expropriation of land and that these situations had to be unblocked. It was a very special mechanism for specific situations, and it should never have been an instrument that would have been used across the board. The current proposal to use this institute for an unspecified energy infrastructure basically says that we do not even know what and where we want to build yet, but we already know that we are going to hit a dead end in the event of expropriation of the land, which goes against the principle of the whole idea as a last resort instrument, and I therefore propose that this amendment be deleted in one of the amendments. The second amendment concerns the application of a new legal concept relating to the construction. Using the new legal concept of building related instead of building secondary, as defined in Act 183/2006 Coll., on spatial planning and construction rules, opens up space for many problems and interpretational uncertainties. The authors themselves do not use the concept of secondary construction deliberately, as it is far too narrowly defined from their point of view, and in the explanatory report it is mentioned only as a guide. This view cannot be agreed with because, especially for energy infrastructure, which can penetrate very inaccessible places compared to road and rail, the related buildings may pose a serious problem when intervening in nature and landscape, thereby unduly distort property rights. Therefore, I propose to exempt the constructions related to the bill. [[15.40 hours]] Another amendment concerns the construction of the pipeline by a private investor between the Katerinský brook and Přimda. Directly in the explanatory memorandum it says: In view of the priorities in the construction of the operator's transmission system and the exceptional use of the interim decision, it is proposed to add to the Annex to Act 6, which only includes the management of the VTL transmission system... etc. Inserting this building into the annex to the law will create an extremely dangerous... Sorry, I'm not quoting from the explanatory report anymore. The introduction of this construction into the annex to the law will create a very dangerous precedent where, as legislators, we would allow the use of extraordinary instruments, such as the use of an interim decision, to implement an investment project where the investor will not stand but a private investor. The same case is also the insertion of a part of the distribution and transmission system. Here again, the investor is not directly the state. The introduction of this annex, this building in the annex to the law, will once again create an extremely dangerous precedent where the legislator would allow the use of exceptional instruments such as interim decisions to implement the investment projects of private entities. I also propose that this be removed from the annex to the law. The Annex also added power plants with a total installed capacity of 100 MW or more. Specifically, it is a new nuclear source in Temelín and a new nuclear source in Dukovany. I don't have a problem with the construction of nuclear power plants, but I have a problem with putting them in this law, because, especially for nuclear sources, I would expect them to be exposed to the standard route. And that is one of the reasons, or one of the other points that I see as problematic in the extension of the annex to the law, because these are not constructions of pan-European significance. Their very presence in the draft of this law - please try to find it yourself in the explanatory report, it is defended by being part of an update of the state energy concept, which is from 2015 and its follow-up National Action Plan for the Development of Nuclear Energy in the Czech Republic from the same year. However, I do not consider this sufficient justification for moving nuclear power plants into the Act for accelerating the construction of all listed infrastructures. In addition, the listing of these two sites would result in a different approach in relation to other regions where the replacement of a classical source could be considered in the near future, e.g. a small nuclear reactor. These in many cases also have a power output of more than 100 MW. And this region can, for example, be. even the Moravian-Silesian Region. Once again, by introducing these buildings into the annex to the law, this precedent will be re-established, where we as legislators would allow these very extreme tools to be used by a private entity. These proposals are inserted in the system under number 5349, 5350, 5396, 5398 and 5399 and I will sign up for them in a detailed debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u31	Thank you, colleague of Montenegro. Mr Marian Jurečka, now duly signed up. And I noted the motion to reject my colleague, Černohorský. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u32	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Minister, members of the government. A lot has already been said about this amendment to the Act on Acceleration of Transport Infrastructure. The proposal or the title of the law may already be changed, it should not be just traffic, but it should be written about almost all the infrastructure in general, because the list of those types of investments and constructions to which it will apply is growing significantly. I will try to say structurally, briefly a few things. One. I think that this proposal already largely replaces the so long-awaited legislative initiative in the field of the new construction law. I confess, I was also struck by the fact that this proposal, for example, concerns the higher law - I did not quite understand why these things are being put into this legislation. And then, of course, these are the things that relate to the practical issues and impacts. If two years ago this proposal was here, which was being amended here, and let's say the change was quite fundamental, I would say almost revolutionary, so when I'm talking to investors and their representatives, they say after two years to do an evaluation and to say what worked out of the last legislative proposal of that time today, it's a very short time to evaluate it. However, there is this proposal, we have to deal with it somehow. So I have to say yes, there are moments where we can probably say: it will lead to another expected acceleration in the realization of construction. On the other hand, it is also fair to admit that then there will also be a small part of the citizens who will be on the route of the planned exhibitions, and they will, of course, be affected by these changes and will not like the changes, that is also fair in this debate. And I ask myself, to what extent some of these changes are completely fair to these citizens, and if I were in the position of the land owner and those impacts that are contained here in this proposal, I would be concerned if I could identify with them. However, I am trying to approach this constructively. I wonder how the final settlement and voting on the amendments will turn out. And I'm also coming up with three options for us, which are practically one thing, and that's the problem, when we have an investment plan on the housing property route, these are real estates such as small farmhouses, so we get to know that sometimes the investor's intention complicates negotiations with the owners. I myself am from Rokytnice u Přerova, it is the crow flies about 2.5 kilometers from the current, so much discussed route D1, which we lack in the surroundings of Přerov and Říkovice, and there is, of course, the question of the very municipality of Dluhonice, which is affected by this construction. There are owners who have a problem with the current procedure, and when the agreement was sought, the agreement, I must say, is not simply looking for existing legislation. I therefore come up with a proposal that says that these buildings could be compensated for by a more supportive mechanism for these owners. One of the amendments says it would be the reproductive price of this property. That means making sure that the person gets an adequate replacement to move into and move in with his family. Then there's the second option that says it would be 1.8 times the estimate price. And the second option is that it would be double the estimate price. [[third]] I have to say, when we were discussing this with investors' representatives, they said, "We would welcome this change." They're not hundreds of cases a year, they're more like units or dozens of cases. I will then give you consideration when the Economic Committee discusses this before the third reading, which of these proposals would mostly receive support. But I ask very much in the light of the other amendments, which there were a great deal of them to accept, because this would also lead to the acceleration of transport infrastructure and, at the same time, to a fair approach to those owners who are simply losing their roof over their heads, a place to which they have some personal, life or emotional relationship, and it is not completely easy for them and I am trying to understand that. I will also respond here to the fact that the question of waterworks, whether New Heřmin's or Skalička's waterworks, has been mentioned here. I understand that for the Minister of Transport, that's not exactly the subject he'd be interested in. But because I have some personal experience with this, and I have to say that I have been to New Heřminovy personally, and I have discussed it with citizens, with the public, I have also discussed it with the management of the community, of course, so it is not that all citizens of New Heřminov would reject this construction. There is also a small group of people who would like these things to have already decided to finalize compensatory measures against the people of the rest of the community, which the state has been offering for a long time, so that the community can also develop and move on. And it needs to be recalled that we are talking about a large area in terms of flood protection. If we were standing here in 1996, I believe most of you will call it, or here we are: and some kind of flood problem? And then came the turning year 1997 and it was the territory including Krnov and other municipalities that are under the Nový Heřminovs, which were significantly affected, and there were quite a lot of damage. So I think it's in the interest of more than a hundred thousand citizens living in that flood zone to complete flood protection here. Of course, the use of the waterworks for improving the flow in dry times is clearly here. The same, please nicely, waterworks Skalička. I live in the flood territory of the village of Rokytnice. There's a Bechva flowing between us and Dickheads. I've got a crow flies to Dorks, like, a half a mile. Half my village was underwater in 1997. All the measures that are being implemented today in the framework of the flood under the waterworks Skalička, which means the town of Hranice, the town of Lipník, Přerov, the affected municipalities including Troubek, have projected flood protection so that it is expected in the future that this waterwork will be here, whether it will be a copter or whether it will be a water tank. And it simply cannot be said without this waterworks that we can ensure protection against flooding in 1997. I live there and I say who you have reservations about, who you're criticizing, go to Troubek, go to our villages, to Přerov, where people died, and look them in the eye and tell them: we want to re-evaluate here. [[15.50 hours]] So I would very much like to be able to say that these strategic structures to protect the lives of the people, of course, also their property, are needed here. There have been relatively large discussions about this in the past, and it is very sad that, after more than 23 years, these buildings have not been completed since the 1997 Flood, and it is not pleasant for us who live there to invest in our property. Of course, we have some problems with that. So please, let's not downplay this, and if there's just a dry cop or a variant of a tank that's going to have some constant water horniness, that's a question of how the studies that are now being processed are going to turn out. So much for explaining. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u33	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. I see no one else reporting to the general debate. I conclude the general debate and ask for final words. First, the Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u34	Thank you so much for the floor and thank you for the debate. I think that it is factual and that it is consistent with what has been discussed on the Economic Committee. A whole series of other proposals, from my point of view, make sense. I understand what happened here that it would be ideal to prepare a law in which all this will be done in ribbons. Just how this law is complicated in three departments with regard to its importance and, of course, with regard to the rights of Members to make amendments, in principle, it excludes the fact that it will be covered by dozens of different proposals. [[it won't.]] It doesn't even matter how many there are. The important thing is which are good, which are bad, which will eventually be accepted. I think it's crucial. Let's look at the result. In my opinion, and thanks to everyone who participates in this debate, this is indeed a result after many years. Yes, I do not deny that the moment I joined the resort, I turned the helm a little bit, and in this law in a very fundamental way, and that I was the one who initiated the Polish road in the finals, which was only mentioned. It was a little bit Mrs. Columbová, a lot and a lot of discussions around her, maybe it was about courage, maybe it was about fear, I don't know. Anyway, we did it. I thank all those who have prepared this legislatively. I also respect that someone may have a different view of this, but as I feel, as we are discussing, we are all going to want to shorten, as far as possible, the regular legal way of building, which is really unbearable at the moment. For the analysis. Of course, we have calculated how much we can speed up this or that section. It's not quite that simple. It's not just math, because there's a lot of other variables going into it. We can always talk about how much or how long this highway would take if there wasn't one or the other complaint or extension, but basically it can't be completely simplified and somehow elegantly averaged. What is important is that we can estimate by shorter deadlines how much it will be, but the easiest thing is not to do long analyses, but to get in the car and go to Poland. If one of us goes to this country more often - I used to go there a lot - then maybe he remembers what it was like before 2000, maybe what it looks like after 2000, and the logical question is why they start putting the public on the slap, why they're just faster. This is not due to the fact that they have better construction companies, this is not due to the fact that they have better or worse government, this is due pragmatically by having a better legislative background and being able to use it. That's where the poodle core is. This means that the rapid construction of motorways in Poland is undoubtedly due to the fact that they have chosen a model of balancing with the owners the way we are going. That, I think, is a better answer than any analysis from any famous company that might even write down what she needs. Look at the neighbors, go through their highways, their roads, and compare how many kilometers they had back then and how many they have today. I understand there's a lot of debate over this so-called cannon list. It's a sensitive matter, but either we agree that we have it, then we respect that there will be critical infrastructure or strategic infrastructure, no matter what we call it, both are equally important, not everything will fit into that critical infrastructure. The Department of Transport and myself were not a full representative and fan of the list of works. Rather, we wanted to do it sectorally or through individual sectors. Finally, it is clear that political will is rather to enforce the list of works. It's not something we should bleed on in the barricades. Okay, so if we have a list of works, then we have to accept that there will be tens and dozens of different buildings on it. We can talk about why there should be critical infrastructure of transport and not energy, yes, but it is a law concerning transport, energy and electronic communication, so we must also accept that there will also be construction of the energy critical infrastructure. I cannot imagine what is more important than the construction of new nuclear blocks, which, of course, this process and the inclusion of them will help enormously. It's nothing that we want to go around, it's just a simplification of management, which will be extremely difficult anyway. Likewise, water works will undoubtedly be there, because they are part of strategic or even sometimes critical infrastructure. As far as the fiction is concerned, it's a very discussed matter. Most know very well that this is part of the construction law, which has been discussed here. It must only be recalled that it is already part of - I think the fiction - of the agreed binding positions that it is part of the legal order. Specifically, if I am not mistaken, it is in the Act on Acceleration of Construction. Perhaps the last thing that fell here - and I think it is worth commenting on for a short time - is not wrong - because of the so-called related buildings in the field of energy. I repeatedly say that this law is not only about transport infrastructure, it is also about energy infrastructure and we have related buildings in the energy infrastructure. For example, they are transfigurations, and they themselves are simply in the same mode. Therefore, it is not good from our point of view and it is right not to compete with the construction of the main and makes sense also in the energy sector with this term and especially with the regime to work with it. That's all for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u35	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport Karel Havlíček for the final word. Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u36	Thank you. I have to react in the final word and try to explain a little, or maybe sharpen the edges I heard in the debate. My colleague Lukáš Černohorský and Ivan Adamec - about the process of how it appeared here, how we approve the law. I was actually in charge of that group of Members with other colleagues two years ago - and now it's not an excuse, it's more of an attempt to explain. We agreed back then in 2018 that it would be - I believe that the beautiful term was used by colleague Ondra Polanský - the hotfix, that it would be as if the short patch we agreed on here by Members, by all parties, and that the big, critical, fundamental amendment would be government and be prepared subsequently, which actually happened. Here, for example, we see things differently when some of you say, well, they're not the analysis, and we don't see what the hotfix did in real life. I guess I'd have guessed you were saying, "Maybe let's just wait, let's just let it work for a while. But I confess for myself that I was eager. I was in a hurry, I asked the previous Minister of Transport Kremlík, I asked the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok to bring up the government novel as soon as possible so that we could have a debate over it. I, rather, in my vision of the whole preparation, came from what we're here to say unofficially, in some gentleman's way, they said that the government amendment would follow. That's ad 1. [[16.00 hours]] Ad 2. To discuss things between us, I'm kind of blaming myself here, and I'm applying. Two years ago, we worked on this law continuously for six months. It was from the end of January until the end of June and those meetings outside the standard rules of procedure, outside the Economic Committee, the subcommittee, the classic working meetings of the group of petitioners were not to say dozens, but certainly by 20. We actually met every week, maybe two, and we discussed the proposals. I admit it, I admit it publicly, I had the same idea that this is how we're gonna do things here at the government novel. Unfortunately, what happened in that March happened, and unfortunately, the chances of working meetings were much less. I'm sorry myself, but it's just the reality of spring 2020. Well, that's for the trial. The truth is, we set aside a lot of time for second reading at the Economic Committee. Even now we have a lot of it in a week, so I guarantee it, and even a colleague of Černohorský can come and take part in the debate, really not politically, factually, professionally, we will discuss and try to find some degree of consent. So I'm sorry about the motion to dismiss. I understand that it has already been filed, that there is probably no going back, but I believe that we will be able to argue the proposal so that it is not rejected by the Chamber of Deputies. As for the particular examples that you, colleagues, mention here - Temelín, Dukovany, the nový Heřminův, what appears here in this annex. I have to repeat this in public. The attachment is demonizing, it's really demonizing, and it makes it feel like it's something very strategic, absolutely fundamental. Or the list. But I have to do it again, and I'm going to make it a lot easier - I'm sorry to those who are watching us or watching us - it's a work description of the whole issue. Let us try to think of this as what is called - and these are really working terms - a so-called small preliminary holding, or an interim decision and a large preliminary holding. Again, the Minister of Justice won't frown at me, it's not legally correct terms, it's just a description of the system. And we, in that parliamentary amendment two years ago, introduced a small preliminary holding here, which always responds only to the residual land. Indeed, when the investor has to prove that he bought out, that he acted, that he tried to reach the agreement, he has to submit all these negotiations and exits from them. And if he proves that there's really only one or two properties left and he can't go on, then he can ask for the expropriation. So the correct term is the interim decision, as I call the work-small preliminary holding, and that's what we've just tied up with the list. So maybe Mrs Balcarová's answer. We're keeping the whole process. You know, the EIA, the zoning management, the location of the building, the building permit, it all has to be - I confess, I don't know the specific story. But if there's a resistance of citizens or there's a local mood, maybe it'll stay. But maybe one day they'll change - I don't anticipate anything, I don't know. We here, by the fact that the New Heřmins will appear in such a list, only in the future do we say that if one investor had worked through all the levels that still apply and still have to manage, to the purchase itself - if he had failed in all the purchases and left him with one or two residual land, then he could, but also may not use this mechanism. So I'm just trying to explain. The very existence or insertion of any construction into that list does not make it a priority to trample on the rights of associations, people, other parties and so on. We're really just working with the moment of the conclusion of the property preparation. In addition, we have introduced here - or we are proposing, it is the amendment that has been adopted by the Committee on Economics, now I will repeat it again, "a great preliminary holding," the so-called Polish method. And I like that. I think it's fair. This is applied in accordance with § 1 of Act para. 2, motorways and ones, respectively, on the national and track high-speed future, and there it is completely revolutionary built differently. We're really saying that an investor for a building permit doesn't need the property-legal preparation if I simplify it. And besides, it was the will of the Economic Committee, I respect it. I confess, I myself would like to cancel the attachment and, for example, for that small preliminary holding, agree on some other residual list or some other part of that Section 1, but it was the will of Members, I am fine with it and repeat the sentence that the Minister said: We can live with it and we can work with it. And I understand the political will, it's some kind of instrument, the will of the House, the future House, how to influence the law. But once again, I have to be patient, the list really is tied to that little preliminary holding, not the big one. Well, it's just to explain the contents of the list that he's not as demonic as he is. That's all in my final word. We'll discuss everything on Wednesday at the Economic Committee and see what will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u37	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have two things before we move on to a detailed debate. One is Mr Antonín Staněk's apologies from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and from 15.40 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Now with priority rights for the absent President of the Pirates Club, Mr. colleague of Černohorský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u38	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur probably remembers that when we discussed the previous amendment 416, we were given a table for transport constructions, for example in the next two years. And I would have expected, and so I am saying, through Mr President, that the analysis is actually missing, that it was pushed to do so quickly. But we don't even have how the little interim holding works yet, and we're starting a big interim holding again. In addition, we also adjust this for other buildings, but it is not explained why we would need such tools, such as the dams. Why they are important, why we should include areas where there are two nuclear power plants. Because we can't consistently make decisions based on feelings, but we need facts and backgrounds. Because then we will approve something here - and here, I think, Mr Kupka described through Mr President - that a slight change subsequently leads to fatal consequences, when the construction procedure itself extended by a few more months. So just so we don't happen to have the same thing happen to us again with 400, 'cause we're not only changing forty-sixteen, we're changing the college law if I'm not mistaken. And there are a lot of other laws that we happily interfere with without knowing the consequences and without a more detailed analysis from the Ministry's point of view. Which, given that the Minister now accumulates two ministers and has two apparatuses under him, I would expect him to be able to step on the building bill even more strongly at the moment, so that we don't have to accept such hotfixes. 'Cause last time, it was said that a 40-sixteen was a quick fix. But the quick repair becomes another repair, another repair, and now that we are unable to complete these constructions in this way, because if we don't have a proper construction law, we can't even build proper family houses. I know it took me two years to get a building permit. But it wasn't because of the slowness of the individual authorities, they followed exactly their legal deadlines, but it was because we have to deal with everything paper-based, we have no electronization here. That's what I would expect us to push, not just expand, modify various buildings, and deal with intermediate holdings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u39	Because there was no proposal in the general debate that we would vote on - the motion to reject is voted on at the beginning of the third reading - we are approaching a detailed debate. I would remind you that the Members and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. We have an application order. The first is Mrs. Zuzana Ožanová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I subscribe to the written amendment under number 5400, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u41	Thank you. Now, Mr Petr Dolínek, a colleague of Polanský, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u42	Thank you. I hereby sign up for the amendment under number 5395, which I duly justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Polanský, Mrs Balcarová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon to all of you again. I am reporting for amendments under House documents numbers 5330, 5331, 5332, 5333, 5334 and 5335. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u45	Thank you. Now, Mrs. Dana Balcarová, Martin Kupka will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is recorded in the system under the number 468. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, Mr Třešňák will be prepared. [[Mr. Kupka is not present in the hall.]] Colleague Kupka is not present, so his application falls to the end. So now colleague Petr Třešňák, will prepare Jan Birke. [[Mr. Kupka is coming.]] You're at the end, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u48	Good afternoon again. I am reporting for Amendments 5394 and 5460.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u49	Thank you. Now, Mr Jan Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, let me apply to the document number of Amendment 5480, which I have justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u51	Thank you. Now, Mr Martin Jiránek, the rapporteur will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u52	Colleagues, I refer to Amendment 5336, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u53	Thank you. Mr kolovratník now. A colleague of Matusovsky will be Matušovská. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u54	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to Amendments 5338, 5339 and 5402 and 5403. I did not pay much attention to them in the general debate. I'll leave it to the Economic Committee. Here, in one sentence, I will say that after all my negotiations and cooperation with the MIT, they support the construction of energy infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u55	Thank you. Now, Mrs Matušovská. A colleague of Kupka will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 5397, which was entered into the system by my colleague Ožanová, and I am his co-president and justified it in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u57	Thank you. Now, Mr Kupka. Mr. Jurečka will be ready, then Mr. Černohorský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u58	So I would like to read a total of seven amendments. The first introduced in the system under number 5378 concerns the facilitation of the location of the new generation networks and, in general, the management of electronic networks along roads II. and III. classes, i.e. general along roads in auxiliary road land. Another amendment is in the system mentioned under number 5343 and introduces the concept of cable pipeline into the construction law. Another under number 5341 defines the role of surveying engineer. The other two amendments concern the fiction of consent, the first under number 5340 and the second under number 5481, with the fact that in that first case it is an intervention in the construction law, in which case it is an adjustment of the administrative order. Furthermore, the amendment under number 5377, which shortens the deadline for issuing a kind of amending binding opinion by the superior authority, reduces from one year to six months. Finally, the amendment under number 5342, which repeals the binding position under Section 96b, or the binding position of the zoning authority. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u59	Thank you, colleague Kupek. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, in a detailed debate, will be prepared by Lukáš Černohorský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u60	Thank you. Very briefly. I am applying to three amendments, which are optional. The first one's number 5309. It concerns the establishment of a reproductive price in the case of housing or farmhouses where the owner lives. Then it is Amendment 5486, where I set a coefficient of 1.8. And then the third option, that's 5310 and that's a coefficient of 2.0.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u61	Thank you. Now, Mr Černohorský, then Mr Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u62	Thank you. I therefore subscribe to Amendments 5349, 5350, 5396, 5398 and 5399. I have justified myself in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u63	Thank you. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, at this moment, the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am applying to the amendment under the number of House document 5483. It's about cutting the construction stage of the Přelouč from this law. It is a construction that is worth CZK 3 billion and practically any investment in the railway line Pardubice - Česká Třebová is more reasonably spent than their excavation on this section of the Labe. So what I'm really calling for is that we call off the whole effort for the megaloman water structures, instead we invest in rail transport, and we stop blocking the development of the territory with building closures, where the D-O-L is now planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-02-ps2017-049-05-001-007.u65	Thank you. I don't see anyone else entering into a detailed debate, and I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Prime Minister? It's not like that. The rapporteur? The rapporteur is also not interested in the final word for a detailed debate. If the rapporteur controls me, there was no proposal that we could vote after a detailed debate, nor a proposal to return the guarantee committee, nor to shorten the deadline for third reading, nor to address the guarantee committee. In that case, I can end second reading. I thank the Vice-President of the Government, thank you, rapporteur, and finish point 7. The next item is the item
