ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u1	1. Government proposal for a law on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic /German press 784/ - shortened negotiations According to § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. This is how we proceed with each of these laws, just a reminder. I am opening a general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in speaking in the general debate on this point. I see no one, I end the debate and we proceed to the vote itself. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, the House's press 784 in the accelerated negotiations'. Initiating the vote, I ask who is in favour of the resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered is 105, for 101, against no one, the motion for a resolution has been approved. We will therefore now proceed to discuss the proposal itself. I am opening this point and from now on, please consider the necessity of everyone in the hall. Furthermore, we can operate with a simpler mode. It is important that the relevant Minister, the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the person acting for each of the clubs be present. Government bill on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, House press 784, shortened negotiations. The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I'll ask the Minister to take the floor. I remind you that the first reading is not done, we are already at second reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal opens the second front. the fight against coronavirus, the economic front. This means we are fighting to save our economy and jobs and the record employment that we had in the Czech Republic until recently, and I firmly hope that we will still have. Very briefly, what we propose in this extraordinary law, which has been put forward for this extraordinary situation. We propose an extension of the aid period throughout the duration of the emergency measure, i.e. all the time before the school education begins again. Secondly, we propose extending the age of eligibility in children until their 13th birthday instead of their 10th birthday. Thirdly, we propose the possibility of paying sickbays to pre-school children, for example, when the founder decided to close this pre-school facility. To date, the infirmary has been paid only on the basis of the legal interpretation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Fourth, we propose to pay the extended infirmary for the handicapped, which we have closed because of the epidemic, e.g. daily or weekly staff members. I would like to draw attention to this because it was said in the previous debate that a 60 per cent reduction in the assessment base was proposed, which is an important and substantial detail. This is a reduced measuring basis. I mean, if I'm gonna simplify it, the lower you pay, the higher the percentage of compensation you get for the net wage. For your information, if anyone has a gross monthly wage of CZK 20,000, the infirmary in 30 days per month is CZK 10 680 net, which is in proportion to the net wage, which without discount on the child is CZK 15 856, 67 percent. If you have a gross monthly wage of 25,000, the infirmary in 30 days, the infirmary is calculated per calendar day, it is CZK 13 320, with the net monthly wage without discount on the child for this salary being CZK 19 303, i.e. 69 percent. I would also like to say that the infirmary for tradesmen, which I originally proposed, or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs originally proposed, has taken over the Ministry of Industry and Trade, that is, through the government program of the infirmary for the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in the same regime as the infirmary for employees, i.e. the same age of the child, the same conditions, simplified administration. To pay the check. The benefit is paid by the County Social Security Administration. The application for a medical care confirmed by the school will be signed by the parent and the employer will be forwarded to the district administration. The levy shall be paid within one month of the submission of the complete application. In this crisis, the benefit will be paid as cash maternity assistance, which means at the end of the calendar month, if the parent terminates the infirmary earlier, of course sooner. It is important to say that those parents who have already asked for a medical care need not ask again. This will run automatically and will be paid backwards, even for those days that have not been legally covered. Most parents end the infirmary or end last Thursday, and until the law comes into effect, parents need not be afraid and the dose will be covered. The last or second-to-last thing I'd like to say. There are proposals for the sickbay to be paid at 80 per cent of the previous income. That's the original proposal I went to the government to negotiate with. However, I must say that at this point, because we do not know how long the fight against coronavirus will last, at this point, we have decided to prioritize the saving of jobs. The Antivirus programme, which is, in simple terms, the cursarbeit regime, will be a very costly matter. And if we're going to decide how to get our economy on its feet, at this point, we're prioritizing the saving of jobs. However, I have already promised this on the Social Committee today, if this state of emergency should be long-term, then social democracy will promote an increase in the infirmary, taking into account the reduced assessment base. The last thing, because there is a lot of thanks in the last few days, I would especially like to thank the employees of the Czech Social Security Administration and the employees of the Labour Office. You'll probably ask why we thank the officials who are paid for their work. I'd be happy to explain. Those are people who have children, and yet to a large extent they decided not to stay home with them. These are people who can also get sick, and yet both the Labour Office and the Czech Social Security Administration will have an enormous amount of extra work in the coming weeks. Just to give you an idea, we expect hundreds of thousands of applications from both the Labour Offices and the Czech Social Security Administration, beyond the current agenda. We await requests for emergency immediate assistance. We expect an increased number of job brokers, and we expect a large number of applications from employment offices to pay wages for companies under the Antivirus programme. In the Czech Social Security Administration we expect an extreme burden associated with the payment of sickness but also with the payment of the infirmary. Only in connection with this law do we expect another 190,000 applications for the infirmary. 180,000 for parents with children under 13 years of age, 10,000 for those family members whom we closed daily, weekly staff and other social services to protect public health. So once again, I thank all the employees at the MPSV for doing their utmost in these difficult times to get the funds they need to keep our economy running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered, discussed it by the President's decision and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 784/1. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me express myself as rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy. I am not going to read the news report I have prepared, because it has been communicated here by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Maláčová. I would merely inform you that our Committee on Social Policy sat down at 8 a.m. this morning because we had a deadline for a resolution within 10 hours. We have complied with this, and the resolution approved is introduced under House press 784/1. I would like to inform you that 21 amendments have been tabled to the Committee on Social Policy, which have often been in agreement, but we have voted on them and two amendments have been adopted by the Committee on Social Policy. One amendment is from Mr Sklenák, who concerns that the infirmary should also receive children over the age of 13 if they have a degree of dependence of at least I. My amendment concerns the possibility for parents to take turns in the infirmary not only once, but according to their situation and need, and also for the infirmary to be paid out once a month. So these two amendments were adopted. As Minister Maláčová said, there were three headings of amendments. I think that the Members here and there will want to speak again. It was 80 percent. I would just like to say here that not only social democracy, but surely the entire government will discuss if this measure takes longer to meet again as a government and discuss the possible increase. So I certainly don't think it's just social democracy. I would now like to read you the resolution adopted by the Committee on Social Policy. Resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 47th meeting of 24 March 2020 on the Government Bill on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, House press 784. After the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, the report by Jana Pastuchová, and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 19.00 at the latest on 24 March 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 /ST 784/ epidemic, as amended by the following amendments: 1. In Section 3, at the end of paragraph 2, the dot shall be replaced by a comma and shall be supplemented by the words "or, because of the care of a careless child, which is dependent on the assistance of another person at least level I under the Social Services Act and cannot attend the school because of its closure on the basis of emergency measures in the epidemic. [[light dependence]] The child's carelessness shall be assessed in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act.' 2. In Article 4, the following paragraph 3 is inserted after paragraph 2: " ((3) In the context of the support period provided for in paragraph 1, it is possible to replace § 39 para. 4 sentences of the first sickness insurance law several times, with no replacement possible in one calendar day; the conditions for entitlement to the treatment and the applicable period shall be assessed for each authorised person on the date of first taking over of custody. In the case of replacement under the first sentence, the infirmary shall be paid to each authorised person per calendar month for the days of his care declared on the prescribed form; This form shall also bear the dates on which the other person entitled to take care of the child.' [[person]] The present paragraph 3 shall be referred to as paragraph 4. 3. The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row shall be reported in column 060 of this row. The following text shall be inserted: ", unless otherwise specified in paragraph 3.'; V. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to: The Committee's opinion was communicated to the Assembly of Deputies, In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, it has made appropriate legislative technical adaptations. That's all for me as rapporteur for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. And now we should decide whether or not to hold a general debate and whether to limit speaking time to five minutes. I promised I'd always give everyone space to walk out of their offices. Please, I'm going to interrupt the meeting for two minutes to give everyone a chance, even to those who have a remote office so they can come here. At the same time, I subpoenaed everyone. [[The President is still gonging.]] [[The hearing is suspended from 12.46 to 12.48 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will therefore vote on whether we will lead the general debate on this point. On the recommendation of the Committee and on the basis of the previous agreement from the Gremium, we should decide that the general debate will be successful, but it will be limited to five minutes, even in a detailed debate. So first of all, whether we will even have a general debate. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 9 registered 104, for 75, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[12.50 hours]] Now, if there is no objection, we will vote with one vote on the fact that, both in general and in detail, the limitation of speaking time is set at five minutes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered is 104, for 76, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I am therefore opening a general debate with the fact that there is a gentleman's agreement that one of the Members will speak for each political club. Vice-President Okamura came forward first, then Mr Bauer, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. I'll mark the rest later. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the proposed amendment on enlargement. Sickbay. For the SPD club, I wanted to say that we support the extension of the infirmary as one of the necessary measures to support people affected by the Coronavirus, so we will support all the proposals, because there are a number of amendments that will aim to increase the necessary financial support and social support for citizens. At the same time, I thank not only our Member, Lucia Šafránková, who prepared our amendment, but also other Members from other parties who, through the amendments, have muddled the most visible holes in the government's proposals, which unfortunately does not address the reality of life, when e.g. parents take turns caring for children or children. Perhaps the government's majority will agree to these positive proposals for citizens. Another thing is that small patches, of course, do not fix thousands of holes and errors, which are also in other measures that are now going to happen. So our amendment will be presented in a detailed debate by our Member, Lucie Šafránková, and I hope that there will be an option that will help as many people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u7	I also thank you for keeping time, despite the fact that you have priority rights. Mr Bauer for the ODS political club, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u8	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, dear colleagues, allow me only briefly to take a position on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party. We generally support government efforts to change the parameters of the so-called. Sickbay. Today, we have included two amendments to the Committee on Social Policy. The one was only legislatively technical, and I would like not only the Minister, but all present to see him as an act of goodwill, because we have asked our lawyers, with whom we are working, to look at the government proposal and possibly remove some legislative technical errors that we see there. Unfortunately, I saw that there was no interest in this act of goodwill in the Committee on Social Policy, which is why I did not load it into the system. However, this is not the case with the second amendment, which is found in the system under number 4617. Its aim is only to change two key parameters called. Sickbay. The first parameter we propose concerns the child's age. In contrast to the government's proposal, we propose to increase the age at which parents can benefit from the infirmary, from the government proposed 13 years to 15 years. And the second parameter relates to the 60 per cent measurement base parameter. We, on the other hand, propose 80 percent to the government's proposal. Why 15 years old? We believe that this is a more optimal option, which, among other things, is linked to compulsory school attendance. The age of 13 years is not in the legal state of the Czech Republic and nowhere anchored, on the contrary 15 years is anchored, because by reaching 15 years of age the child becomes an adult. The 80 percent parameter, among other things, is based on the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and even on the position and opinion of the Minister who promised to deal with how the situation would develop. Even the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could at some point imagine the payment of 80 percent. We are of the opinion that the situation is already very critical in some areas, and therefore we would be inclined to increase the assessment base to 80 per cent, contrary to the government proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. With the opinion of the TOP 09 MEP, President Pekarová Adamová will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u10	Thanks again for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 also presents an amendment in the same spirit as my previous speaker said here, i.e. increase of the measuring base from 60 to 80. We think that this is adequate given how long those families will really depend on this particular dose of the infirmary. And since the Minister has just said during the Committee on Social Policy that he is planning to approach this, too, after some time, I would like to ask you something. I'd like to ask how long it would take for the Ministry to do so. I know that many of these things are crystal ball divination today, but on the other hand, what length of compulsory school closure would it take for the Ministry to take a step to increase its own assessment base to 80 percent? So that is what I would like to ask, because I assume that unfortunately only those who went through the Committee on Social Policy will go through the proposals, which was not the proposal. I would also like to thank once again those who are proposing amendments to which we have joined, whether they relate to the possibility of replacing parents. I think it is absolutely crucial at this point, because some parents really need the opportunity to take turns. For some operations that remain valid, it is also a great help to take into account that nurses, doctors and others also have children and many today have to deal with, for example, because they are both employed in couples in these professions, taking turns in the care of children. And one last thing. I would like to point out that it was also we who came up with a proposal to increase the age after which the infirmary can be drawn up by the parents of disabled children who go to school, and we are glad that the amendment was also tabled by others and at least one of them passed and is finally supported from the committee, because this was quite forgotten in the original proposal. Otherwise, of course, we encourage parents to receive this dose much sooner than usual. This situation is so special that this should happen. And I believe that even the increase from 60 to 80 per cent is very easily defended today, because otherwise those parents will be forced to receive other social benefits, so that state will cost a lot of money anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. And if you agree that we would allow one more performance, and then we'd call a break, so we wouldn't waste any time. President Jurečka is next for the KDU-ČSL club, then Mr Kolářík, then Mr Rakušan, then Mrs Aulická Jírovcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u12	Thank you. I would like to briefly summarize in the general debate the principle of our amendments to the KDU-ČSL. I would begin by remembering that, above all, household consumption of 60% stretches the economy of the Czech Republic, and therefore, if we underline, even for a part of households, income, we help them start a carousel of crisis, which will have a deeper impact than it would have to have. That is why we have prepared amendments under the KDU-ČSL dealing with the issue of the level of the infirmary. I can't relate to the 60% threshold or the argument that the government will eventually return to it, because these parents will be faced with the fact that their costs will not fall by 40 per cent by mid-April, the bills will simply not be 40 per cent lower and will have to pay them. [[13.00 hours]] So I very much appeal to the Chamber of Deputies to consider the amendment I made. I have given several, but as far as the amount of the infirmary is concerned, I have made an alternative proposal which recognises 100 per cent of the basis of assessment, or an amendment which recognises at least 80 per cent of the basis of assessment. Imagine that there are parents, when there is an employee of a mother who is needed in the infirmary at home, and then, for example, the husband of a businessman who had to close his business. They were put in this difficult situation. It's not easy for them at all. Furthermore, within my amendments, I also deal with the situation of people who are in the DPP, DPČ, i.e. the employment agreement, the employment agreement. People who work as assistants in schools, etc., etc. are also very often. I also prepared here an amendment, which I modified after the morning discussion on the Social Committee, so that we could give two options to base on the fact that we can give this ceiling in the case of DPP and DPČ to the amount of CZK 7,890 per month, based on the minimum wage; or I am based on the average infirmary, and there is a second option that would grant these people CZK 14,600 per month. The argument that some employers are thus circumventing the labour code and so on, at this point I think it is not entirely fair, because these people are simply in that situation, they have to stay home with their children and have little choice. They are unable to revise their employment relationship with their employer. Furthermore, we have tried to solve a sensitive matter for people from practice, not all cities, but some parents are naturally worried about their children and want to leave them at home, they want to focus on them, and they actually want to be in the infirmary, but at this point they are not entitled to it, so that we can allow these parents to have this child at home. Some might argue that the parents will abuse it. I don't think anyone would want to volunteer with the kids today for a few weeks, not go to work if they have the option. But it's just that if he's a natural parent's fear, I think he's allowed to take that form and not distinguish between having a child in first grade and being 7 years old, or being in kindergarten and being 5 years old, so that we can also make it possible. So we also have this proposal here. And then the proposals that we propose also concern, for example, people over 13 years of age, for example, in the first degree of care, so that people under the treatment regime can take care of them too, or we also propose that grandparents or adult siblings be able to participate in the infirmary, simply to make it more flexible and to give greater comfort to the people involved. Of course, then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to these amendments and their numbers. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. At this point I am merely recapitulating: Mr Kolářík is registered for the Pirate Club. I hope I got to know you well in that mask. You have to admit, you and your colleague Martínek are a little bit alike when you're wearing a drape. And I've only seen you in the periphery. Then Mr Rakušan, then Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. And that would give us a club representative for this press. I'm declaring a lunch break until 2:00 p.m., based on the agreement of grémia only one hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u14	Good afternoon, honourable Members, Madam Secretary. We will continue with the start of the general debate. At the time we interrupted, Mr Kolářík, Rakušan and Hana Aulická Jírovcová were enrolled in the general debate. So in this order, we would be speaking in the general debate. Mr Lukáš Kolářík has the floor in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and colleagues. I would also briefly comment on the draft government law that we are discussing here at the moment. Of course, as pirát, we agree with the proposed modification and support it. We are pleased that many of our suggestions and many of our things that we have come up with have been incorporated into the proposal or in the amendments that have finally been passed through the committee. But there were also a few things that the committee rejected, and I would also like to put them before you as a House and ask for their support. The first and quite important thing is that it is forgotten in these rapid measures of quite vulnerable people, and these are workers in agreement to carry out work and work, who also participate in social insurance, and we can imagine under it, for example, single mothers who can no longer reach part-time, and therefore deal with this agreement, or perhaps pedagogical workers who are also very often employed in these agreements. That is why we propose to support these people as pirát. We propose an amount of CZK 212 a day, and if these citizens had more of these agreements, we propose that this amount be doubled to CZK 424. And other agreements would no longer be taken into account to avoid fraud and the writing of multiple agreements. We must not forget these weakest citizens. The second thing that we think is quite crucial is the monthly paycheck of the infirmary. Although the Committee has adopted an amendment on this matter, however, now that we have looked at it in detail, it is actually said that the monthly payment would only be if the infirmary was changed. So I am calling upon to submit an amendment to this paragraph 2 and 3 of the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, so that we can fine-tune this. I suppose that won't be a problem. The point is that there is an explicit rule really for all those who are receiving the infirmary, so that they are calmed down and that doesn't disturb their family budgets. At the same time, there is a third category that no one has ever done, and these are people in executions. And here I think that there is also a need for some help, because they are also very vulnerable persons who will be the first to experience these problems. We are preparing a number of such measures to deal with the Ministry of Justice. However, one thing can be done now, and this is the possibility to extend the interruption of the insolvency process, which can now be interrupted under new legislation, but those people who have been approved of this insolvency before under previous regulation do not have that option. So I would suggest that we also allow those people who have been in insolvency for several years, maybe three or four, so that they can also interrupt the insolvency process for, say, six months, so that they can take a breath and the impact on them wasn't so dramatic. Of course, at the end of the five-year process, they're in debt, and this could ruin the whole effort they've made in the previous years. So I am calling for an amendment to this, together with my colleague Farský, to be prepared and read in a detailed debate. The next thing we want to mention, of course, is the need to help in some way, but this will be dealt with in another press, so I think more colleagues will talk about it, but of course we need to remember this group, because they too have lost their magic wand, their business, their jobs, their contracts, and they are also people who hold the economy and who need help. Thank you for your attention and thank you for supporting our proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. We will continue to prepare Hana Aulická Jírovcová by speaking to Mr Vít Rakušan. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. Just a quick note for the STAN Club. We will support the proposal to increase the infirmary from 60 to 80 percent. And we really consider that 80 percent is the minimum necessary at this point. According to all available statistics, the Czech Republic is a country where not such a large number of people - and thank God for that - suffer from the immediate poverty. On the other hand, and we certainly know that and confirm that, the huge number of people in the Czech Republic is just above the threshold that we have been marking as a long-term poverty border. And we really believe that at a time when at least the 80 percent mentioned will not be paid to these people, so it may actually happen to us that many people will very quickly in that time of crisis, if the crisis is longer than we think it will get, just below the poverty line, which would be fatal for them personally, but it would, of course, also be a fundamental economic limit for the whole Republic as such. At the same time, please think of the single mothers at this time. They're the most threatened group at the moment. The vast majority of them are currently living on the poverty line or just above it, and they should be supported, because many times they represent the role of the other parent, they simply cannot share the responsibility within the family, they cannot share the cost, as it is in normal families. And they actually perform for their children, and many times very responsible, huge penzum work. I think they deserve to support more than 60 percent at this point. As I say, the 80 per cent - and we will vote in this way - we consider it to be an appropriate minimum to support this group of mothers. At the same time, of course, it is also appropriate to thank the Minister and the Ministry for having responded to this situation at all, because it will, of course, help people in the Czech Republic in real terms, regardless of their size. So we will support the amendment to 80 per cent. But, of course, we'll vote if he doesn't pass, even for the ministerial proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. And now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. So far, the last one in the general debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is no time for politics. It is time to begin the process of helping the citizens of the Czech Republic. And the proposal to change or those parameters of the infirmary is the first of the other measures that await us. No one can define the development of the situation and it is necessary to act and adjust further aid and conditions for citizens. It is necessary to say openly to citizens that the emergency is not likely to end in the middle of April and maybe even May, and even after the outbreak of the virus has been stopped, the Czech Republic will be closed for months due to the situation in the surrounding states, and it is therefore necessary to start helping above all in ensuring economic and social stability. We support the Government's proposal as it was tabled and Mrs Pastuchová's amendments, i.e. Switching parents to the infirmary plus, of course, payment for each month, and we also support the amendment of my colleague Sklenák's proposal. I would also like to point out that we require the government of the Czech Republic to prepare an increase in the infirmary to 80 per cent of the average earnings after further prolongation of the emergency, i.e. after 10 April 2020, because a large proportion of the population cannot live another month out of 60 per cent. I think we can agree on that across the political spectrum. Furthermore, prepare legislation to support those who have the main employment relationship with the employment agreement and the State to make payments. I stress this because we have the amendments tabled today, which also have an agreement on the implementation of the work there, and we really see this as an additional activity, virtually. income, because it is limited mainly by the number of hours. It is important to us, however, that people who have as the main employment relationship to the agreement to carry out the activities and do the contributions to the state should also apply to them, because, as we all know, of course, the reliefs to the CFI will be dealt with both by other House prints today and by the government regulation through the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I would like to say that we have also supported 13 years, i.e. the line that is proposed, because we consulted pediatricians, and we have really been confirmed in all cases that they exhibited sickness for parents children under 13 years of age, 14 to 15, there was no need. At the same time, however, we see the need to support families where there is a disability, and we may all agree here, as the government's law is proposed, that it does not matter whether they are children or adults. I do not know whether I am sorry or not, but I would like to say that today I imagined a little differently, unfortunately 21 amendments that have come together show that even though we have this emergency situation, it is actually a fundamental crisis of the Czech Republic, which we have not invented, so I expected that there will be a bit of consensus across the political spectrum, unfortunately this is not happening, but I believe that even in the vote and the way it is so far running in the Chamber of Deputies, that the situation will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. I ask whether the rapporteur wanted to be in the debate or in the final word. In the debate. Okay. then Mr Václav Klaus. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I am here now acting as a member of the ANO movement with our position on our movement. We identify with the submitted government proposal and support, or we support, as I said, only two amendments that have been adopted to the Committee on Social Policy, with the fact that others, I will not repeat myself, I have justified, for example. Changing with grandmothers, grandfathers, why we don't want it, why we don't support it. Increase to 80 per cent. We are still talking about an increase of 80 per cent, but 80 per cent is actually 97 per cent, 60 per cent is 70 per cent, so we will really support the proposed government version under the YES movement, with the fact that if this situation goes on, as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has sent forward, then the debates on the increase can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, the last member of the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u23	Hello. As I have announced, the time is that we will support government proposals, because I don't think there's time to make who's smarter and smarter from Vodňany. I had three proposals - the government's information on important things, I don't think, it didn't go through, nothing's happening, I hope it's arranged somehow. About that. We will support the Government's proposal, but I would very much like the Members to be here to draw attention to some things. I am very concerned that we are driving people to stay home with 13-year-olds, and I think that the Republic may need a lot of labor. The nurses talk to me, I have some in my family, and they serve the 12s. Because the Ukrajinka have gone home, some of them are babysitting, some of them are in some semi-carantine, or we have to think about getting people to the important places, whether they're college students, many of which are, which is great, helping themselves, or whether the government is planning some kind of military backup. But I'm more worried that the measures I've taken on this material are going to make people hide at home with, like, a 13-year-old kid. So I'm going to support it because it's a serious time, but I'd like to make a point when there are members of the government, even the appeal reversed, that we're either fighting the coronavirus as a republic, or we're all sewn up and pretending that the welfare state is working. But he doesn't work and he won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? The Minister is interested in the final word after the general debate. I will, of course, start the debate in detail immediately afterwards. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, I just briefly asked when it would be a good time to consider an increase. It's a complicated thing. We are very closely monitoring the population's income situation at the moment. We have analysis here that I think will not change in the short term, and we will combine it with the situation at the employment offices, i.e. with an increase in the number of unemployed people, with a situation where we monitor how many people have asked us for medical care, how many people are on sick leave, how many people have asked for emergency immediate assistance, etc., etc. It will be a combination of factors plus we will monitor the development of the pandemic in the Czech Republic, so that we correctly combine the possible measures of the Antivirus programme, and after a few weeks we will evaluate these figures, and if we come to the view that a large part of us, as it was said here, is falling under some bearable limit, then in this case I would suggest 80 percent. It must be said, however, that 80 per cent of the reduced assessment base is almost 100 per cent of the net wage, that is to be borne in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. I am opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified, and I therefore expect applications for a detailed debate. Mr. Kolařík reporting. Then Mr Bartoš. And before I give you my word, I propose that in a detailed debate, as was the agreement of the Gremium, we vote that the justification will be five minutes long? [[Information off the microphone.]] But it was also voted in the general debate. I take it, then, as the President informed me, that this is approved for both debates. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for the floor. I will certainly be faster than five minutes, because this justification has already been made in the general debate. I would like to sign up here for House document 4648, it is an amendment to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, namely to points 2 and 3, which extends the explicit statement that the infirmary is paid once a month for all the persons who receive it to bring peace between citizens. [[14.20 hours]] I also sign up for House document 4608. It is precisely the addition of a law which introduces the possibility of a sick person also for persons working on an agreement on work activities or an agreement on the execution of work. At the same time, I will mention briefly - I will not be submitting the amendment that I have announced to insolvency. We work with colleagues from other clubs, Patrik Nacher, Kateřina Valachová and Honza Farský, on some complex solution and we cooperate with the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for supporting our amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Ivan Bartoš, Mrs Šafránková, then Mr Jurečka, will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will also briefly sign up for three amendments, which I have co-signed with Mrs Olga Richterová. Since we also deal with the forms of employment of DPČ and DPP, so my first proposal is proposal 4609, it is the parent rotation in the infirmary, because it also assumes the consideration of the amendment concerning DPP and DPČ. It is important to load it, although the issue is partly addressed in Mrs Pastuchová's amendment. It is in a substantially two-variate proposal where parents take turns, and it reflects the possibility of approving the amendment presented by colleague Kolářík. Another proposal, which is under number 4610, is the proposal that concerns children with autistic spectrum disorder or some other handicap. I'll sign up for the proposal. I assume this is the proposal that is currently being reflected in Mr Sklenák's proposal, which was approved by the committee responsible in the morning. And the third amendment. I'm responding to the fact that the proposal was actually on the table, it's an infirmary for the MIT, but it seems to me that when we postpone it or, in fact, we're moving it into the competence of the MIT, we're keeping these people in some uncertainty, which is why we have this proposal that we're dealing with in connection with this law. The proposed amount is derived from the average, that is CZK 420 per day in the care of children under the age of 15. So that's the third proposal I'd like to sign up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for keeping time. [[Member Bartoš off the microphone: 4611.]] Now, Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Mr Marian Jurečka, then Mr Jan Bauer, will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present briefly the amendment of the SPD movement to the Government Bill, which we are discussing here, which has the number of House Document 4592 and which I am signing up for. This proposal consists in the right to this extraordinary and temporary infirmary, including family members in the family line according to the Civil Code, who take care of children under 13 years of age as a result of the closure of school or preschool facilities, even if they do not live with these children permanently in the common household, which the current legislation of the infirmary does not allow, or allows, only the parents of the child. The reason for submitting the proposal is precisely the extraordinary and unpredictable long-term situation we are currently experiencing and the efforts to mention its economic and social effects on families, which will still be enormous. This proposal would allow at least many parents and families to choose how to survive an emergency with as little as possible complications of all kinds as possible and with a future perspective. And it's not just a complication of economics. For one thing, many parents are now forced to leave their socially needed jobs for a long time in order to care for their children, whether they are doctors, nurses, paramedics, security forces, or business and service workers, and many other professions. Therefore, we propose this extension of the circle of people who will now be able to benefit from an emergency infirmary, as well as close relatives not living with a child in a common home, such as grandparents or older siblings, on condition that they are also employees participating in sickness insurance. This would enable many families to decide who will take up their job in this difficult time of care, whether with regard to the financial side of the matter, or according to other criteria, the type of profession of parents, their role in employment, the risk of endangering their job as a result of long-term absence and many other reasons. Thank you so much for your consideration and your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mrs Šafránková. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka and before that, Mr Bartoš, who asked me to do so, just a number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u33	I was warned he didn't sound on the microphone. The third amendment that I signed up for is draft number 4611.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared, then Mrs Adamová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to sign up to the greater number of amendments that I have made to the system. Excuse me, I am applying to Amendment 4596, which is also an amendment for persons dependent on the assistance of another person. Then I apply to Amendment 4601, which is to enable the infirmary also for grandparents and siblings, and thus to allow rotation within the infirmary. Then it is Amendment 4595, which concerns the infirmary for children's parents under the age of 6 who will not go to kindergarten in the municipality and the city where the kindergarten was not closed by decision of the city or the municipality. Then it is Amendment 4597 concerning the infirmary for self-employed persons of CZK 770 per day. Then it is Amendment 4598, it is an infirmary concerning parents who are soldiers to make it possible, as well as for parents who are police officers or are in the security files, so that it is possible for these parents as well. For me, the argument that the Ministry of Defence does not agree with this is not entirely an argument relevant, I am here to make it possible to defend the interest of parents in particular. Then I have a proposal under House number 4599. It is an amendment that addresses the infirmary for employees, to increase 80 per cent of the assessment base, and, alternatively, there is a 4600 proposal that addresses the infirmary at 100 per cent within the assessment base. I do not apply to the 4594 proposal because the Minister on the committee on the morning or in the morning said certain factual reservations about it. I was aware of these, which is why during the morning I worked up these reservations and read two amendments concerning the DPP and DPČ, which are variantal, with the fact that the first proposal for these persons has the ceiling calculated from CZK 263 per day, i.e. CZK 7,890 per month, and is based on the minimum wage, and this amendment has number 4631, and then there is the second, which is based on the average amount of the infirmary, i.e. CZK 14,600 per day, which means CZK 486 per month for these parents, and it has number 4632. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u36	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Now, Mr Jan Bauer, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u37	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to sign up to this amendment, which has been introduced into the system under number 4617. Everything relevant about it was said during the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová, with her speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the Minister for not for not forgetting the question and answering it, but nevertheless for not having brought in any more specific framework, and I am afraid that, indeed, for a few weeks, perhaps even months, the current situation would be, that is, a treatment of 60 per cent, and that is why I want to sign up to the amendment, which is in the system under number 4628, to the first part of it. So I am still insisting that we vote to increase the assessment base to 80 per cent of the wage, because I believe that there really is not a sufficient amount of 60 per cent, and it really doesn't make so much money for all of them as opposed to being normally employed. So I believe that we won't wait for these people to fall into a material emergency and be on other welfare benefits, and that's exactly what we're going to prevent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. Mr. Jurečka will complete his performance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u41	I just want to make sure there's no doubt. I refer to Amendment 4631 concerning DPP and DPČ, with a minimum amount of CZK 263 per day, CZK 7 890 per month, based on a minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, and that was all signed up for a detailed debate. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. After a detailed debate, the Minister and the rapporteur are not interested. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Since we are following the special provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we must decide whether we will vote on individual amendments immediately, or whether we will decide on a break in this item, we will interrupt the item. The break is for processing and a written presentation of an overview of amendments for all Members. Otherwise we would have to, if we had voted immediately, basically based on what we heard. This vote, which is number eleven, will be launched when I wait for my other colleagues and colleagues. The procedural vote on the processing break and the written presentation of an overview of the amendments. We interrupt negotiations after second reading for writing amendments, start another point, it is a grémia agreement, it is nothing that we cannot do, but in any case it is better because I think there are 21 amendments, it is better that you have them in front of you when voting at third reading. I therefore recommend respecting this agreement from the Gremium House, but, of course, it is for the free will of each of the Members. I think that the number of Members in the House has settled, and I have launched the motion to interrupt the vote number 11 and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 11 of the 104 Members for 77, against no one. Following the second reading of the Government's proposal for a law on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, we have interrupted the processing of written proposals for amendments. We can therefore continue the agenda as approved. The next item in our agenda is item number
