ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-20-ps2017-066-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin today's 66th meeting, I would like to remind you of the agenda of today. The 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 10 a.m., then at 12 p.m. the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and then at 14.00 p.m. 71th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So there are four meetings ahead of us. I'm opening the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who votes with the replacement card. The meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 51 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 13 November. I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room. Please take your seats. We would proceed to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Miroslav Kalousek and a Member of Leo Luzar. Does anyone else have a suggestion? With a spare card number 10, I vote, Radek Vondráček. Once again, we are voting on the verifiers of this meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number one, we are 77, for 76, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Leo Luzar, as verifiers of the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I also note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. We'll sit in a reduced number. From members of the government apologize: Jana Maláčová for work reasons, Lubomír Metnar for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Miroslav Toman for work reasons. We would now proceed to the 66th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is not possible to propose a change or addition to the program. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I'll call my colleagues again. We will therefore vote on the agenda for this meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 80, for 73, against no one. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. Thank you. So we'll continue with the proposed show. Opening point
