ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u1	26. Government bill on the abolition of selected obsoletal legislation /house print 608/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, will be presented. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm for the moment. Thank you. The Deputy Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a bill abolishing certain obsoletal legislation. He was prepared as a response to the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House, which called on the Government to address the problems arising from the existence of obsolete legislation, and proposed solutions. The aim of the bill is to abolish more than 800 obsoletal legislation, i.e. legislation which is still part of the rule of law and is formally valid because they have not been abolished in the prescribed manner, but are no longer used and do not, or can not, actually operate, have legal effects. For us, this is the first wave of interference with obsoletal legislation and includes, in particular, those identified as obsoletal by the competent administrative authorities. Experts are already working on further analysis of the rule of law, which will result in a second wave of interference with unnecessary legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u3	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Dominik Feri. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u4	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, we have three prints here that are actually trying to achieve exactly the same thing, namely to deal with the vastness of the rule of law - at least that is the intention - by abolishing obsolete regulations. What are obsolete legislation? These are the legislation that has not been formally abolished, drugged, but which is still in our legal order and does not actually produce any legal effects. At least that's what the plaintiffs think. In most cases, it is true, for some it may not be true. This government proposal responds to the proposal of honored colleagues from the ODS. It is wider, it is proposed to repeal 812 legislation, it is, of course, not just laws. It was delivered to us on 1 October 2019. In this context, I would like to propose a merger of the debate on the following points, i.e. to merge points 26, 27 and 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u5	Thank you. The procedural proposal for the merger of the debate, paragraphs 26, 27 and 28 was made. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber so that we can vote. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We are voting on the merger of the debate on points 26, 27 and 28. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 142 Members signed in for 64, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. We will continue to discuss item 26. Mr Feri is reporting as rapporteur. I'll open the debate just in case so I can give you a word without a problem. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u6	Thank you. I was going to deliver it in the following news reports. I assumed that the debate would be merged, it wasn't. So I apologize to Mr. Grospič by your means that he will have to wait a while. I mentioned here that the intention is to narrow it down, or, let's say, to thin it out, the oversized rule of law. But I'm not quite sure the attitude here is appropriate. And I don't blame my colleagues at ODS for coming forward with this. We are also an opposition party, and we feel the need to deal with it in some way. But I would expect something different from the government. I wouldn't expect the government to just play in some way, save the slam that the opposition gives but come up with something wider. I know a $10 million contract has now been launched for some more complex, let's say, analysis of our legal order and the obsolete legislation, but the government is expected to have a bit of a prospective perspective. That means, not that we're gonna break the 1918 laws. For your sake. Act No. 78/1990 Coll., Act on the Salary Regulation of University Professors - a long time ago, of course, amended. Act No. 8/1918 Coll., abolishing the seizure of property for acts of treason. Law No. 453/1990, on the old-age additions of civil servants and civil servants. [[Right 1919]] And so on. What kind of regulations are these anyway? These are regulations that no one uses, which are mostly used in writing diploma works at law schools, or regulations that you get to, as long as you enter a wrong period of time within some system of legal information, that is, within ASPI, Codex, Becko or something like that. This means that I would expect the government, for example, to deal with the newer regulations that are still being applied, and in them they will try to make order. This will, of course, be very difficult within the framework of this active law. But I would consider that a reasonable step from the government, not that 812 regulations are being selected. How it was done is, I think, completely white. It just entered some time period, it was said that this regulation would probably not cause any legal effects and put it there. What surprised me, or worried me. The Government says: The proposal is also supplemented by part of the legislation of colleagues from the ODS. However, some of the legislation contained in the present Houses of the Press raised doubts about their obsolvency and, in view of the difficult to predict consequences of the unintended abolition of the still-living legislation, these are not proposed for annulment. And it refers to Act No. 281/1919 Coll., on State aid for the construction industry, which lays down pre-emptive law in some houses that had State aid. And that such houses might still exist. All right. But are we really sure that if we cancel the package of 800 legislation, it will not cause any legal effects? Some sort of, say, restitution thing or something? [[17.30 hours]] So I'm not suggesting rejection at all, it's interesting from the point of view of legal history, I'm sure it is. But from the government's point of view, it seems like a populist slap in the water. I think the government, the Home Office, could do more. And that if any efforts are good for citizens in terms of using this everyday law, they are efforts, or it is energy spent towards e esbírka. Because that's what makes sense: getting to the law, having them just handy, which is not a matter of course today. And from the point of view of using the law, I think it would also be very helpful to citizens - and that is another gesture, that is the gesture of the Minister of Justice, and I know that this is being worked on, and I know that this is already underway in the test regime - the publication of judicial decisions. This would help citizens in terms of, say, the knowledge of the law in force, as applied, much more. In order for us as Members - it is absurd, I have asked the Minister of Justice, and I do not blame her, of course, for asking her for any judicial decisions, and we as Members, as we sit here, so we simply do not have a claim on them, we have to pay for them within the framework of the Act of 106/1999 Coll., for this search, and it seems a little absurd to me. But, as I say, it's a Gesture of the Justice Department. So maybe I'd ask the Minister to actually confirm to us that if we cancel 800 laws here, there won't be a lot of trouble, because in partial cases of restitution, for example, some unfinished land, etc., it might have consequences. And I hope, and I would like to intercede that the other two proposals will be released, because without them, if the ODS colleagues didn't bring this up, it wouldn't have happened here, and it wouldn't have been fair for us to reject it here at first reading. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u7	Thank you. Before Mr Grospič with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'll do the disinfectant first, if we're doing the right thing. It is a pity that we did not reconcile the debate, so I will burden you with the opening words of the petitioners twice, that cannot be done. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Hamáček and his Ministry for taking this initiative seriously and coming up with their own, of course, broader bill, and I think that's fine. That's exactly what we meant by kicking it into the debate. We once have 63, once 150, that's 213, over 800, so we're able to break a thousand legal standards, whether by law or by government order. Maybe I'll keep the media-interesting and funny stuff for the opening words. I mean, if we happen to win a politically prestigious duel, that we support the government proposal and reject the opposition, we will not go crazy about it, we will eventually read the laws we want to abolish here at second reading as an amendment. So it's not important who proposes it, who's written on the paper, but what's important is that we remove hundreds of unnecessary legislation from our legal order. Of course, I support the initiative taken by the Ministry of the Interior that we will not only stay in 1919, it was, of course, a year after the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic, so Parliament spouted one law after another, the government spouted one government order after another, it is understandable at such a turning point. And we think it's the right way. So we will support the release of this press to second reading. Of course, in the case of others, if they were rejected for politically prestigious reasons, we will read the amendments. If government legislation has found some specific cases among those 213 whose cancellation is not recommended, we will fully respect that. Of course, the possibilities of the opposition in terms of examining the validity of legislation are much smaller than those of the government. Perhaps I would have responded to that speech by the rapporteur, Mr Feri. So I don't think it's entirely reasonable for there to be a public contract. I imagined that the government was able to handle it alone with its teams of lawyers. So I'd rather ask the Minister for a brief explanation as to why we're unable to handle this internally and why we're writing a public contract to help us. It's new information to me, I didn't know about it, so I'd just like a brief explanation. I think the ministries and teams of lawyers could do it on their own. When you look - as we often do as opposition - at eKLEP for comment proceedings, and when you see dozens and hundreds of basically formal and formalistic comments from some ministries, we know that there are quite a lot of people there, so I think. that they are also able to identify laws whose effectiveness and whose validity and the need for which is now gone, and we would not have to spend public money. Maybe out of that 10, we could use $5 million as a reward for those government officials who find it and identify it, and we'd still have $5 million left, and those people would feel like someone would appreciate their work. This, of course, is not in the Government's legislative plan. I think it is a mistake to evaluate the functioning of the government and the House or the Senate as a whole, how many new laws we will adopt. What's the point of view? I don't even recognize that kind of perspective. On the contrary, I think that if we sometimes cancel some laws, and here we can do almost a thousand of them, and if we cancel some of the laws that we adopted after 1993, it wouldn't be a big deal, because I think there are too many of them. And it bothers me very much when there is a problem in society, very often the reaction of us politicians - and notice that I use the words of us politicians and do not divide the government and opposition into two groups against each other - the first reaction is: so I propose a change of law. Almost every critical situation that occurs in the media space, so the reaction of one of us is that we propose a change of law. I don't think it's right that we should always think about whether or not it's over with the existing laws, whether or not they're trying hard enough, and not that we're going to adopt more and more laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Grospič, who has entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, I will basically follow up on my previous speakers in a sense, saying that this idea is definitely interesting and unique and has no parallels and comparisons, mostly with any other state in Europe or in a world where it would actually begin to list the laws that are proposed to be abolished. I understand that our rule of law contains practically thousands of different laws of different legal forces, and it would generally be about this government proposal, he really overlaps with the two proposals that we will also be discussing at the same time, and I am also sorry that the debate on these bills has not been merged, because the mattress is the same that this bill could have its merits, which can be seen in the clarity of the rule of law, and that is a rather high and serious argument. However, if such a step were to be taken, then this can only be done after a perfect search of the whole legal order and regulation after regulation, which would not have happened in my opinion, because the petitioner states in the reasoning that such an analysis is essentially not presented, and goes with an account that starts at a certain point and ends at a certain point in time, and such an analysis would, of course, require that we go through all the legislation, a lot of time, and substantially more than the one that the government has devoted to it. I am a little concerned that the government has more or less responded to the proposals that were here from among the Members, to the two previous, older parliamentary proposals, and the various ministries and other government bodies have not expressed their views on this, it is simply not very happy that various systems of legal information, whether eKLEP, ASPI and the like. The proposed bill brings with it the danger of abolishing legal relations - and I would like to draw attention to this - which have been and can still be based on some of the legislation proposed for annulment, since later legislation has either taken over these relations, and this risk can be quite high, especially given the link between the period of the first Czechoslovak Republic. The proposed proposal has many errors, and I think that, although it may be completely meaningless, it may also have fatal consequences. There is no guarantee that only those regulations which, as the petitioner states, are no longer effective and no longer give rise to legal effects against anyone, but are still formally valid because they have not been abolished in the prescribed manner, i.e., another law has not been adopted that would have to be repealed or replaced. [[17.40 hours]] And yes, it can certainly be said that such legislation contains our legal order. However, the question is, and will the question always remain, which regulations are they, and are they the ones proposed, or are there others that are not disturbed? And regulations that are not to be broken, or vice versa, are all disturbed. This question arises here, it will be here, and unfortunately, if we move this bill forward in this way, we will not avoid that there may be any disputes that may end in their consequences either with the Supreme Administrative Court or with the Constitutional Court. In this context, I would like to take one example for all, when in paragraph 708 of the proposal the Decree of the Ministry of Finance No. 126/1961 Coll., on applications for reimbursement for property in the People's Republic of Romania pursuant to Act No. 100/1961 Coll. However, the proposed proposal does not disturb this law, it leaves it in force, and this applies subsequently to points 709 and 710 of the proposal. So there's a completely substantive contradiction. Another issue of the proposal is interference e.g. Decree of the Ministry of Finance on the issue of commemorative silver coins or gold coins, even if these are regulations before the introduction of the Czech Crown and these are regulations which even now produce legal effects. These regulations are legally required to be issued by the Ministry of Finance, respectively. The Czech National Bank, and publish them in the Collection of Laws. These regulations also clearly describe the subject, the commemorative coin, so it cannot be confused. However, this specification, which has a descriptive character, clearly defines the subject in such a way that it is not interchangeable with another one that would have been issued as genuine. These regulations, therefore, clearly still have legal effects today, are not obsolete, and therefore cannot be repealed. Their possible cancellation could result in unforeseen damage, such as disputes. in the whole area of numismatics. The equally serious problem with the proposal is that it does not disturb the regulations or parts thereof, which should have been repealed by later regulations, and it has not done so. These are a number of amendments, which brings greater clarity to the rule of law and significantly burden them more in application practice. Any interference with the rule of law, the abolition of old legislation, must be very sensitive and responsible, based on responsible and deep analysis, in order to avoid serious errors. However, this does not respond, which can be demonstrated by the fact that the proposal does not interfere with the regulations governing, for example, newlywed loans, which are examples of obsolent regulations. It is a legal measure of the Bureau of the Federal Assembly No. 14/1973 Coll., on the granting of loans with a state contribution to young spouses, and the Government of the Czech Socialist Republic Regulation No. 44/1987 Coll., on the modification of the conditions for granting loans with a state contribution to young spouses, and Act No. 56/1948 Coll., on State aid to newlyweds, as amended by Act No. 116/1949 Coll., and neither Act No. 116/1949 Coll. is not cancelled by the proposal. In order to eliminate any errors, the proposed law should contain provisions guaranteeing without any doubt that legislation based on legislation not proposed for annulment and not adopted later legislation will remain unaffected after their annulment. I mention the rules here on purpose, because they establish some civil relations and enforcement of law and financial performance and translate into a series of treaties that paradoxically, although long-term, may be subject to commitments, inheritance and transfer of property rights. So for these reasons, I do not recommend supporting this bill. I propose to return it to the petitioner for revision, and if this proposal fails, I propose an extension of the 20-day time limit, because it will certainly require a more detailed assessment by the petitioner and his evidence to the guarantee committee, which will deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-009-026.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have noted your proposals, which we will vote on at the appropriate moment. Now I ask whether anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I am not reporting, I am ending the general debate. There is no interest in the final words either the Minister or the rapporteur. It is now time for us to take a vote on Mr Grospič's proposal that the proposal submitted is returned to the applicant for completion. I have called Members and Members to the Chamber, and I think we can proceed to the vote. We are voting to refer the proposal back to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 146 Members registered, for 22, against 79. The motion was not accepted. We will continue by proposing the commandments to committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The draft of the Organising Committee is that the proposal submitted should be discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does any of the Members suggest any other committee as a committee of guarantee? He's not suggesting. Initiating vote. Who is a guarantee committee for the Constitutional and Legal Committee? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 146 Members signed in for 117, against no one. We have ordered the proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has not proposed any further committee to discuss this proposal. Does anyone from the diaper suggest another committee? It does not propose, so this proposal will be dealt with by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. However, there was still a proposal in the debate to extend the deadline by 20 days. We will now vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of extending the deadline? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 146 Members registered, for 36, versus 58. The application was not accepted, the deadline was not extended. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I conclude the discussion of this point in the first reading. Opening point number
