ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first unsubscribe all of you, which I have just done, and I will ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 15, Mr Bartoš votes with the replacement card number 16, Mr Farhan, with the replacement card number 21, Mr Beitl. I called this meeting following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which I declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, March 19, this year. And now, first, we will proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Does anyone else have a proposal for the verifier of this meeting? I don't see anyone. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal. Who's against it? Voting number one, registered is 85, for 77, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused on the basis of the agreement of Members' Club Chairs, as we have reduced the number of Members present because of the risk of viral disease. Madam Members, on Thursday, 19 March, I received a letter from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš informing me that the government is proposing that, in the context of the emergency situation declared by the Government of 12 March 2020, I declare a state of legislative emergency in the context of health threats in the context of the demonstration of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. Furthermore, I was informed that the Government approved the Government's proposal for a law on certain social security adjustments in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, House press 784. At the same time, the Government has asked me to decide that the bill we received as House Press 784 will be discussed at the time of the declared state of legislative emergency in the shortened negotiations under Section 99 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. On 19 March this year, by decision number 41, I declared a state of legislative emergency from 19 March 2020 until the end of the emergency declared by the Government on 12 March 2020. Furthermore, I decided pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It was ordered by the Social Policy Committee to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the discussion of the Government's proposal in a short session and set a deadline for the submission of the resolution by 24 March 2020 within ten hours. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the legislative emergency lasts. I am opening up a debate on this issue. And the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is the first to sign up. Then a request was made to the Gremium that one representative would appear shortly for each club according to size. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor. It's always a performance with priority rights, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u2	So hello, everyone. Mr President, honourable Members, I stand before you in a situation that is completely new to us all. I would like to be specific and factual and brief today. It is the hardest period that the Czech Republic has experienced in its modern history. We've never had to change our lives so quickly and so fundamentally in the past. We're facing a threat that is completely unknown to all of us. I come before you with humility and a human request to forget about our political quarrels and disputes in this crisis situation. I think that we should work together to show people that we are able to set an example and at important moments to ignore party preferences. Everyone. Therefore, I would like to offer opposition representatives three expert posts in the Central Crisis Staff, which solves and fights the Coronavirus on a daily basis. At the same time, before you, before the Chamber of Deputies, which is based on the legitimacy of the government, I would like to promise and assure you that our government does not intend under any circumstances and will not abuse the state of crisis and the state of legislative emergency to strengthen its power. [[11.10 hours]] We have three basic goals. The first is to successfully cope with an epidemic of coronavirus, thus protecting the health of our citizens. The other is keeping people at work and helping them financially. And, of course, especially businessmen, companies and employers. The last is as soon as possible to return ordinary citizens' lives to a state before an epidemic. After all, we all want to maintain employment in order to get money quickly among the people, and the legislative emergency is the only democratic means with the guarantee of Parliament to achieve a rapid change in the state budget. Of course, the state of legislative emergency is only temporary for a very long time. As well as closing the borders and other measures. We certainly will not and do not want to restrict the fundamental human freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I deeply appreciate democracy, but now it is about people's health, the health of all of us, in the first place of our seniors, which we mainly want to protect. Let me now introduce you here in the Chamber of Deputies to all the measures that the Government of the Czech Republic has taken until now. I think that we responded quickly and, according to the latest results of the spread of the disease, we are handling the situation considerably better than other European countries. The number of deaths in EU countries, currently, unfortunately, is almost 10,000. Ten thousand dead. I'm bohužel so. The first Government resolution 187 on this issue was issued on 9 March and it was stored in the Ministry of Health to purchase anti-coronavirus protective equipment without a selection procedure. At that time, the Czech Republic was registered with 36 people infected with coronavirus. The announcement of an emergency was made in Government Order No 194 on 12 March, when the introduction of an emergency situation from 14.00 on the same day is indicated. At that time 116 proven cases of infection were registered in the Czech Republic. Since then, the government has been meeting virtually continuously, even today at 9:30, for example, and decides, as necessary, all necessary steps. Since 12 March, the government has issued more than 50 various resolutions specifying basic measures to combat this epidemic. By order 199 in force from 13 March at 6.00 hours, public participation in sporting, cultural and other events involving more than 30 persons was prohibited, the period of operation of catering facilities was limited, and Resolution 211 in force from 14 March all shops and catering facilities, accommodation services, establishments of services other than grocery stores, drugstores and pharmacy were closed. It was established that these operations would remain closed until further notice. The government implemented these harsh measures at a time when the number of infected persons reached 140. Far before the epidemic's rapid onset. I believe that these measures have been able to mitigate its rapid progress. At the next stage, the government focused on purchasing protective equipment and ensuring the operation of health facilities, social services facilities. I would like to thank, once again, all the ministers who have helped and helped with this difficult task. The government works as a team and we solve our tasks together and in a coordinated manner. The government has also issued resolution 247 for a ban on staying in public areas without a protective drape. At the same time, the government also solves the problem of Pendlers, who can be the source of the introduction of the disease into the Czech Republic. Resolutions have been adopted on this point, which show the need to respect the need of our neighbours, where our citizens carry out important activities. I have had several interviews in this regard with the premieres of Austria and Germany and I think we have found a solution. Gradually, measures were being prepared to address the economic consequences of the epidemic. These consequences are particularly reflected in the fact that Resolution 211 has dampened the activities of the CFI, which largely act as service providers, namely as hairdressers or repairers, or as owners of shops whose activities have been banned. In this form, they have been deprived of their income and are in danger of getting into payment problems in the short term in order to ensure their activities, the need to pay social and health insurance, as well as rents and others. Some firms, especially those connected with the auto industry, are starting to have a similar problem. I had a video conference with Škoda Auto's management today, and we discussed their situation in detail. Since the beginning of this week all German automakers have ceased their activities and Czech suppliers have been forced to cease their activities as well. At present, it is around 150 to 200,000 people without work. The exact number is unknown, but it keeps growing. A complex of financial measures was adopted at the last meeting. Firstly, it is a suspension of sales records for the period until the end of September 2020. The government will also present to Parliament today a proposal to amend the state budget, where it is proposed for this year to count on a state budget deficit of 200 billion. It can be reasonably expected that this deficit can still be adjusted according to the actual course of the economic crisis, and, of course, it cannot be excluded that the government will come again. The government re-adapted the movement of the Pendlers so that they could stay at the job site for 21 days, and then they were obliged to enter quarantine for 14 days. There are relatively significant problems with neighbouring countries that are very interested in the work of our citizens and are unable to replace them in the short term. But these measures are really extremely strict, and we think it might work. The Government has also laid down rules for the use of PGRLF funds to address agricultural problems, with an application being submitted by the Minister of Agriculture to increase PGRLF resources for food security and the Rural Development Programme. Resolution 292, the targeted employment promotion programme, must be considered to be very important. Here, the government will determine how wage contributions will be paid to employees affected by the cessation of production as a result of the Coronavirus. Thus, a solution has been established for the basic situations that may arise in companies. Specifically, this is a case where employees are ordered to be quarantined. Here the employer will be fully compensated for compensation. In case of cessation of operation due to quarantine the employer will be compensated by 80 per cent pay compensation. In the case of child care, 80 per cent of the pay compensation is compensated for by the employer. In cases where the company does not have import supplies and has to cease operations, the employer shall be compensated for 50 per cent of the remuneration. In the event that the company loses its sales, 50 per cent of the remuneration paid is compensated. This programme is set for a month. His costs are estimated at 7 billion, but of course we'll evaluate it after a month, and if we need to improve it, we'll definitely do it. We have increased the guarantees for EGAP on loans up to a total amount of 330 billion. The amendment of the Act on the Czech National Bank must also be considered extremely important. We, as the government, approved the proposal today. According to the new version, the central bank will be allowed to carry out transactions with all financial market entities, i.e. banking institutions, insurance companies and investment firms for more than one year, which should contribute to the stabilisation of the banking market. The central bank can then lend money to these institutions that can buy government bonds. The central bank will have similar competences as the European Central Bank for banking market or FED operations. By this law, we will untie the Czech National Bank's hands. The central bank will then be able to enter the bond market, but again I warn you that all further steps will be within the competence of the Czech National Bank. This does not mean that the CNB will immediately buy bonds. It's in her jurisdiction. The government also adopted a resolution adjusting the entrance exams for secondary schools, as well as the organisation of graduation examinations, which is due to a realistic estimate of the duration of the emergency. In addition, a number of other decisions were taken concerning e.g. adjustments to the systemisation of salaries for regional sanitary services staff. So I want to thank you for listening to me. I really appreciate it. And I'd like to say the note I got and rewrite it from my phone. It is a message that inspires me, and I would like to dedicate it to all the citizens of our country. The message is this: Give us, dear bůh, the power of the spirit to correct things in general. Give us, dear bůh, the power of the soul to correct things in general. Give us, dear bůh, the strength to trust in ourselves. I believe the wisdom of my physical body. Grace and blessings to all and to all. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u3	Now, I would like to ask for a point that we are discussing, that is, setting up a legislative emergency, a withdrawal from the Grémium agreement, always a representative of each of the political clubs by size. Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies and Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala will perform for the ODS. I'll have the other clubs, please. I've already sent a fast messenger and I've already got the other performers. Thank you. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to act quickly, we need to act effectively, and I will respect the crisis regime here in the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore a summary political word. I will reduce the citizens' democratic parties to today's agenda into just fifteen sentences. We consider it right that the government came up with a package of economic and social safety nets, and we appreciate that it extended it compared to the original plans of last week, because people and companies will need money. We welcome the Government's inclusion of some ODS proposals, such as deferment of income tax, introduction of a certain form of cursarbeit or extension of the sick person's term. The Civil Democratic Party will support the Government's proposals and I call on the Government and the Government's majority to think equally with responsibility and helpfully about the amendments that we are going to make today. The ODS expects the government to come up with another package of measures for people and for companies that will experience in the next few days and weeks the first impact of the crisis, which will be difficult and which will not be covered by the government's proposals today. The state must not leave people without help, therefore The Civil Democratic Party will support the adoption of a second set of measures, which should be discussed as soon as possible by the Chamber of Deputies and which, in our view, should include exceptional financial assistance to employees, self-employed persons and small firms, such as the extraordinary one-off benefit of employees and self-employed persons in times of crisis. Let's not kid ourselves. Even before the start of this crisis, the state budget had developed in an unfavorable way and headed towards a much higher deficit than originally planned. We therefore also expect the government to come up with concrete proposals, in addition to helping people, in a short time, on how to reduce state spending in areas that have recently increased and that will withstand reductions. I am sure that, in addition to this first package with which the government has come today, and in addition to the second package that must come here in a short time, we also need a broader plan for how we will exist and operate not only for a few weeks, but also for a few months, and the government should present such a plan as quickly as possible. So many eight sentences to today's program, and I'm going to add seven more sentences to the future. The government had and has the full support of the opposition, at least if I can speak for the Citizen Democratic Party, in radical measures that are restrictive and necessary for the short term. At the same time, however, I call on the government and the entire executive, who today have strong powers, not to succumb for a moment to the ambush of power, nor to the idea that the opposition should merely remain silent, nor to scare people, that borders may be closed for several years, because no one has a mandate to do so. In addition to protecting the health and support of people and companies during this difficult period, we in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in particular must protect constitutional processes and democratic freedoms. And I'm glad the Prime Minister signed up for this. The pandemic is an unprecedented threat, yet let us keep what makes us a successful and free country. Let us think about democratic principles and freedoms and consider the measures that are now necessary and which limit them. Let us not get used to them and remove them at the first moment possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of our responsibilities and will support all measures today to help people and companies overcome this crisis. Here we must proceed together and quickly. The Civil Democratic Party is ready for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I would like to speak to the representative of the pirate party club, President of Mr Bartoš's party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u6	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Prime Minister, representatives of the government, I would like to thank you for the fact that the government launched a debate with the parties in the House 14 days ago, not only with coalition partners but also with the opposition. I think that the two meetings that took place, especially the first, were also inspiring for the government, and I am glad that many of the proposals that have been proposed have also lived up to the ears of the bosses and the heads of some departments, and they have been reflected in this first package that the House will be discussing today. I would - and I know that this situation is difficult and things are happening very quickly - like to ask, if even if there is already a proposal at the stage almost ready, whether it could be consulted or given with confidence to Members who are dealing with this within their departments or committees, especially the recent issue concerning education. Indeed, it has been very difficult to discuss all 54 or how many paragraphs during such a short period of time, but I have succeeded and I thank the people on the committee who dealt with it that they have chewed through it today. I would like - and I am glad that the Prime Minister here has also called for closer cooperation, especially with regard to the crisis staff - to emphasise, and I know that at the level of municipal policy or at the level of regions, people are aware of this and are helping one another with solidarity, but we should also really focus more on groups that are clearly at risk at the moment. We often look at the proposals, let's say, of the ordinary person who can either continue to carry out his work at the moment, or is limited in some way, but the situation that has arisen regarding the performance of both labour offices or social services is really trivial and a number of people, and in the study that was published at the end of the year, freedom was divided by 40 per cent of people in the Czech population, who are currently at some critical threshold of falling into poverty and suffering. And these need to be remembered, too. For example, it is important, and we think that it has already been well-negotiated, really addressing the problem of people in executions or people who can very quickly be in some financial situation, where they will not be able to meet their standard requirements for life in rent, but even the debts that arise. We should certainly look at how the insolvency law would be applied in the next package, because many companies cannot pay their claims at the moment. I have a lot of information from the regions, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Indeed, a number of people are now turning to the aid system, and we must certainly in this regime ensure that all benefits are paid properly and that people can touch them. Another big question, and they are indeed the most threatened groups, is already the Czech Republic has a large number of homeless people. At this point, it is solved by cities at some level, perhaps empty hostels, because tourism is in decline. We should also turn or, in some way, systematically address the possibility of supporting homeless people, for example, through the register or the famous system where the individual buildings are owned by the state, even to identify some possible objects for people who are in a risk group, have no chance to remain in quarantine somewhere and are actually on the street and are threatened by this epidemic. I would like to ask, and I will not now name the area of the CFI, and it has also been said here, and I know from the debates with the ministries that there is agreement on this issue of support, not always on the scale or in the way, but I would like to call for, say, the communication on proposals for laws and measures between government representatives and Members in the Chamber of Deputies, not just opposition Members, because when we talk to colleagues, there are often some information as well as we learn from press conferences, and so that laws that will probably change the environment in the Czech Republic for quite a long time approve as laws, not as decisions by individual ministers. I think that this discussion is very important, because even the observations and parameters in the individual resorts can be done together for the first time and correctly, not then change things. [[11.30 hours]] And my second appeal. I think it's important. At this point, we will vote on a change in the budget, we will talk about the deficit rate. And the government is already speaking not only declaredly at press conferences about the impulses to support small companies in the Czech economy, but, of course, they will be huge amounts of finance, even from sources that the European Union will provide for the fight against coronavirus. We want to use the change so that, for example, domestic companies can supply the necessary materials. And I would ask and appeal that this distribution of money and the rules of distribution be perfectly clear and that this be done in a transparent manner, so that it is clear who is entitled at the moment. It'll prevent speculation, it'll prevent suspicion. And we are really talking about tens, maybe hundreds of billions of crowns that will be directed in a different direction at this point, and it is very important that this is resolved. I would like to thank the Prime Minister once again for giving the offer to the opposition, which, according to his statement, may propose his representative to the Central Crisis Staff. I would also like to appreciate Mr Vondráček's suggestion - and here the debate has already been held between the parties' chairmen and the Prime Minister - of setting up an economic team to address economic issues in the House. That's what I think is a step in the right direction. And I still have a list of different proposals, we're sending them to the Ministry, but I believe that now we can discuss it with government representatives ideally today at a break or after the House meeting. Thank you, and I believe we can do this together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u7	I thank you and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will perform for the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that after a few months of warning news from the world and after e.g. The Slovak Government has already taken 41 measures to help the endangered economy, companies, employees and families, as well as the Czech Government, albeit with considerable delay, has taken its breath and comes also on the basis of discussions with us with at least a few proposals to help people affected by the emergency situation. I hope you will continue this, Prime Minister. I commend Czech citizens and thank them with all due respect. Helping others spreads faster in our country than coronavirus, and as is typical of our country, jokes spread even faster on coronavirus and in this context to the government, and even to me. We don't take it as gloating, it only points to the healthy spirit that exists in our republic, the crisis-non-crisis, the virus-nevirus. And I would like to thank all citizens, paramedics, doctors, social workers, organizations who are involved, we are pulling together, and we will certainly make it all work together. And I also thank you for your patience and discipline. Every crisis leads to cleansing and, as a result, strengthening, and I hope, we too are waiting. One of the positives is the knowledge of several facts that has highlighted our SPD movement for years. The failure of the European Union is one of them. And life does not only threaten us with its approach to the pandemic of coronavirus, but, as we know, its position on the pandemic of Islamic radicalism in the spread of Islam, the colonization of Europe by anti-European cultures is also suicidal. I understand the fear of coronavirus, but on this occasion - and I will immediately explain why I am talking about it - it cannot be warned against something equally, or perhaps even far worse in the medium term, and this is the imminent war between two NATO members, Greece and Turkey at the moment. The Turkish army has deployed a Special Forces sniper to the border, which is attacking Greek border guards with sharp ammo. As we know, four million Muslim migrants are waiting for migration to Europe in Turkey. The Greek army deployed helicopters with search systems to eliminate them. A week ago, a pair of Turkish F-16 fighters attempted to destroy such a Greek helicopter. The Greek army responded to the incident by pushing several batteries of anti-aircraft missiles just to the border. At the same time, Turkey sent 11 offensive submarines into Greek coastal waters, i.e. the European Union. When we return to the European Union, I would also like to mention the Minister of Foreign Affairs, when Mr Petříček of the ČSSD said last 14 October that - I quote: "The Union must agree on the response to Turkey." Now, we've got March, and there's still no big deal in the Union. Why am I talking about this with coronavirus? What did coronavirus show us? That when we need help, the nearest help is at the end of our shoulder, certainly not in Brussels. Waiting for a decision from Brussels, whether it is migration, Islamism, or Turkey's attack on the Schengen border, is political stupidity, politely speaking. After all, let us all remember, just a few days ago, how European Commission President Ursula von der Leyenová and French President Macron criticized the Czech Republic for closing the borders in connection with the emergency situation surrounding the pandemic of coronavirus. A really incredible statement. They don't do anything themselves, they just criticize. Tens of thousands of citizens who have started to sew their own drapes, thousands of companies and volunteers who help people in their neighborhood, and even the state, today and daily prove together with our paramedics, police officers, firemen and many others that we have to help ourselves eventually. In the media, I have also seen the help of many dozens of Vietnamese fellow citizens who not only sew drapes but also give them to fellow citizens in hundreds of pieces free of charge. All the people living in the Czech Republic are grateful for their help and also for helping to open their eyes to those who want to centralize Europe in Brussels. The opposite is necessary and the practice shows it. Today and daily we are talking about self-sufficiency that we have unfortunately lost, and now we see it at this moment of crisis. And we should grow that self-sufficiency in the Czech Republic at all levels, from family to municipalities, from regions to national states. This is a recipe for a successful economy, it is a recipe for dealing with the crisis, it is a recipe for becoming a state of the future, decentralization and maximum self-sufficiency, especially in the most strategic commodities such as. energy, food and, last but not least, water, which we should completely deprivatize and return to the administration of municipalities and regions. The worst, as we know, what awaits us in the Czech Republic, is not, by all accounts, a medical collapse. So far, the Czech Republic is doing well with managing the pandemic of coronavirus compared to other countries, and this is very good. That's really good. And I hope and also wish and believe that our citizens will survive the pandemic in health. But the worse will be the economic downturn. And that's why we're in the House today. And this can be successfully dealt with not by other debts, but by changes that will make our management, investment and work more efficient. I am pleased that the government has also adopted some of our proposals for financial and social support for businessmen, employers, employees and other affected groups of citizens, but it is still not enough. Again, I say that the neighbouring Slovakia, the Slovak Government has already introduced 41 measures, including the sale of electricity, the complete remission of levies, etc. But the government still didn't come up with solutions regarding mortgages as regards executions as regards courage to forgive legal charges, and as I said - energy reductions, etc. And the citizens are desperately waiting for it. And I'm actually told by hundreds of businessmen and hundreds of desperate citizens that they don't even have the rent and that they're really getting into unsolvable situations, and unfortunately, even today, those bills from the government that we have here on the table don't solve these situations. The huge problem is also in tourism, which employs 250,000 people in the Czech Republic, and they are hotel employees, they are their suppliers, souvenirs manufacturers, travel agents, agencies, their employees, guides, carriers. Here in this sector, too, the government has not yet offered a satisfactory solution, and there is indeed a huge social and economic problem. Therefore, over and over again - I wrote to the Prime Minister on Friday in order to prepare some measures, so I hope that at the next stage these proposals will come because every day is critical for citizens. [[11.40 hours]] As for the homeless, I must thank our Member, Lucia Šafránková, who contacted the Minister of Defence of Metnar last week, whether any empty military equipment might not be available, because the homeless - even the citizens complain about it, often contact us - unfortunately they do not have a place where everyone in quarantine could concentrate in one place, where they could be accommodated separately, and they also move without masks, for example, on the street. And we're picking up a lot of stimuli. Well, we're in the middle of this. As I have already said, our Mrs Šafránková has already addressed the relevant ministers in this respect. So I hope that this situation will be resolved quickly in order to deal with pandemics as quickly as possible. Today, the government is proposing an astronomical deficit of CZK 200 billion in its proposal to help citizens. The SPD movement will clearly support social and economic aid. At the same time, it is the best time to restore the state budget, and this emergency situation must be used to cut unnecessary spending, otherwise we will not pay, because the deficit is so high that the state would normally fail. That means we have to take action hand in hand with regard to unnecessary expenditures to cut them off. And the deficit can actually be much smaller. And we can also leave more money in people's purses. I'll be specific. The SPD proposes to cut all public money to so-called political non-profit organizations. Where are they today? These are the organizations that promote migration, multi-culture, gender, the European Union and so on. And they're paid out of public money. It is also interesting that the government is still paying them, yet we are verbally hearing something else about oral declarations. So it needs to be crossed out. And President Zeman here is even talking about 11 billion crowns a year, so we would spare them. Of course, those nonprofit organizations that take care of old people, the needy, the kids, so, of course, let's keep them. We also propose to end inclusion in education. This was pushed through by the ČSSD last term in the coalition with the ANO movement. And it means saving $6 billion a year. So we're almost 20 billion. Six billion a year. Everyone's complaining about the inclusion. We also propose to cancel the purchase of American helicopters. That's 14 billion. Or other military techniques. Or other new military techniques. We also propose to return the troops from Afghanistan, which is almost a billion crowns a year. The Francouz have returned the troops. Why are we keeping them there? We need them at home, our soldiers. We also propose to cut the money off to the solar barons. They now receive 40 billion a year, thanks to the law that in the past in the House voted ODS, CSSD and KDU-ČSL. Other of our proposals are aimed at moving money towards working and decent citizens, so it won't cost anything extra. In the House, the laws of the SPD pen are unadaptable to end abuse. Let's move the money to the decent, proper, working people who are in need right now. We also have a law here to abolish the payment of copyright fees to OSA for establishments for which music is not a profit. This would leave more money to businesses and other establishments, stores, medical facilities and so on. And once again, we would simply help them without increasing the state budget and deficit. In the House there is also our bill to abolish the property acquisition tax, which is 4 percent. Let's agree to relieve the people who are about to have a crisis. We also have an SPD proposal on the table for a substantial tax deduction from income for working families with children. We have to support them now. People write that they don't have the rent, they don't even have the basic needs, they're afraid of their future - those working people. We also promote energy cheapening, like the Slovák did, and the abolition of VAT on execution, and also to pay off the principal first, and then the judgments. We also want to cancel interest on interest on the executions. This law from the SPD pen has been in the House for a year. And we're gonna relieve people who are having trouble paying back their executions. And we're gonna make them cheaper because the state is putting high VAT on those executions. Let's do this so we can relieve people immediately. The designs are on the table. It's up to the government to take it. The government has to decide. Unfortunately, we are the opposition party. In the House, we also have our bill on taxation of dividends, which are levied by multinational corporations from the Czech Republic, because they are not taxed. It's up to 300 billion a year. Let's accept it. I know that the European Union does not agree with this. But let's talk about it. Let's be sovereign. We need to get money - the European Union, the non-European Union - to our people, to our citizens in need. Last but not least, there is also an SPD proposal in the House to abolish the licence fees of Czech Television and Czech Radio for all seniors, disabled people, single parents and the poorest citizens. We leave more in people's purses with all this. Everything goes if the government wants to. And we have a number of other proposals written for immediate implementation. So let's accept this in a legislative emergency at the next meeting, and people will have more money in their pockets right away, even without increasing the deficit even further, which we agree with, too, because we need to pour money to the needy people immediately and as quickly as possible. It is therefore only up to the decision of the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM, whether we simply indebt the Czech Republic to the next generation, or we go the right way and at the same time make cuts to unnecessary expenses. All decent, hardworking people would make money off of it. And now it's the perfect opportunity to restore public finances and put decent and working citizens first, decent and working people, including seniors and disabled pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. A representative of the KSČM - Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u10	Hello, Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen. The Prime Minister has asked the Chamber of Deputies to declare a state of legislative emergency and, following the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, this state is declared. We're supposed to judge if it lasts. Let me answer for the KSČM club that we believe that the state of legislative emergency in the Czech Republic lasts. And we are lucky to be moving forward in this mode, not moving forward in the mode § 109m, which means that we are in danger of the security of the Republic. But that can happen, too. We therefore respond and we will vote in favour of declaring a state of legislative emergency or confirming its existence. Allow me to make a few comments on the government's proposals. The Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia will support individual proposals submitted by the Government for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, with reservations on some proposals and amendments, as we have announced in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, assuming that these proposals will have general support and that the bills can be adopted and moved to the Senate. As far as the next procedure is concerned, I am aware that, given the developments in the Czech Republic, the state of legislative emergency, the state of emergency in the Czech Republic, as declared by the government, will continue after 12 April this year. And I'm not saying that as some kind of haunting, but as a real fact, given the evolution of the COVID-19 disease situation. This means that we certainly have at least one more meeting before us in which further proposals will be considered. There we will want the government to communicate with us even more intensively than before. And I take the Prime Minister's offer very seriously, and the KSČM club will add its representative to the crisis staff, so that we too can help solve the situation that is in the Czech Republic. As for the things that have been said here so far from the point of view, for example, of the proposal put forward by Mr Okamura here, I just want to say that the KSČM club will present today a proposal for a law on granting subsidies to non-state non-profit organisations from the state budget of the Czech Republic, so that we do not talk about it, but to make a specific proposal to the House, which we would modify in the future, so that we do not have to doubt the 11 billion that have been mentioned here. With regard to other proposals both in the state budget or in the social sphere, in the field of industry and trade, I assume that we will also be involved in the new proposals, assuming that the Czech Republic as a state, in which at least part of the process is better than in neighbouring countries, especially in Italy or Spain or the United Kingdom and Germany, will be able to implement measures in a timely manner that will allow us to end the emergency situation in the shortest possible time, until the half term, and continue the normal life of citizens of the Czech Republic. We are ready to do this, and we will work hard to do it. [[11.50 hours]] If I were to talk about the issues of further state security, I believe that the next measure must be aimed at maintaining energy security in order to return to food security, that is, for the production of, own production, especially of animals, but also of plants, for agriculture, so that we are directed there by other means that we are not yet dealing with, and that we are dealing with them at the expense of other chapters of the state budget, not just debt through government bonds. So much for me to ask the Prime Minister to declare or maintain a state of legislative emergency at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. In the beginning, I forgot to say that when we sit in this emergency mode, it is absolutely not necessary to sit in a reserved place. You can disperse. When I see four honest-to-be SPD members in one bench, you can spread out to be more distant. Mr. Interior Minister Jan Hamáček will also speak for the ČSSD MEP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak here on behalf of the Social Democracy Club, but I believe that there are more important actions in this situation than words, and therefore just thank all those who are on the front line and those who are behind them and support them in their work and in their fight. And I will thank their loved ones who support and hold them, and I want to promise them that we will not let them down. Everyone else, thank you for everything you're doing. And we can do it together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka will speak for the KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u14	Thank you. Good morning. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, allow me also for a few sentences for the KDU-ČSL club. First of all, I would like to thank all the people in the Czech Republic who are trying to actively contribute these days with their efforts to better cope with the situation. Not only the people in the front line, but all the people, dads, moms who sew masks. I must say that the story of Mrs. Teplice, who has more than 80 years of age, is an oncological patient and sews drapes for her hospital, I think what connects society in the Czech Republic today illustrates beautifully. I would like to thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech yesterday and for your opening speech in the House today. You don't hear it often from opposition representatives, but I appreciate what you said yesterday, and that you also said the things that the President forgot. Thanks for that. I would like to say, for KDU-ČSL, that it is of course very important at this point to help protect not only the elderly, but all people who can be threatened in any way, people who have chronic diseases, people with reduced immunity, simply people who can in any way be more at risk than normal healthy populations and, therefore, first-line health professionals. For KDU-ČSL I must say that we see two important priorities. The first is now to manage the health situation at the most in the coming weeks, to ensure the health of the population, to protect the health of the people on the front line, the health workers, and then the second important step, and it is to prepare the functioning of our society as soon as possible so that we can set up a normal regime so that children can return to school, people to work, and so that we can start in full or to the maximum extent possible, our economy. Therefore, we will support the sensible proposals of the government that the government is making, which we have tabled today at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. KDU-ČSL Members are certainly not slacking off. We have prepared more than twelve amendments to these material submitted by the government. We have put forward proposals that help parents, households to overcome this situation, because these people will not have 40 percent less spending in mid-April, they will have to pay their bills. Therefore, we propose, for example, an infirmary of at least 80 per cent of the average assessment base, if not 100 per cent. But it is also very important, and I call on the government to put a member of the government here in charge of a team that can prepare us for the so-called - I call this a popular contactless economy. In order to be able to manage with protective aids to operate at work after the greatest strain has passed, so that we can set up a home office mode so that we can draw in our scientific and production capacities, which today, let's say, spontaneously arise, whether they are people from CTU, from the technical University of Liberec, so that these people can connect with companies that can produce a much larger amount of nanotechnology-based protective equipment in the coming days and weeks. We're good at it. Let's support it in a maximum way. KDU-ČSL will be happy to support it. For us, I can say that we will be a party that stands with people who have problems who cannot help themselves, who are at risk, and we will be fulfilling this not only today, during the negotiations of our meeting, but also in those days to come. And I assume that the government will still come in a state of legislative emergency with other concrete proposals. By the way, we do it in practice. Our MPs, senators, senators and MPs also sew drapes, deliver them to their surroundings, supply hospitals, as well as security forces, etc. Please just nicely, Prime Minister and Government, all these concrete proposals to postpone payments, whether in the context of social, health insurance, cursarbeit, calls for a delay in the maturity of the loan, we support all of this and it is important. But please nicely, from companies, from businessmen comes a great appeal: some who are most at risk need specific financial support. I understand that it's hard to quantify, it's hard to set parameters, but these people who lost their profits from one day to the next, their profits, those interest-free loans with deferred payments aren't gonna help. These people are crying desperately for help, and we have to help them. Whoever gives twice, quickly gives. And I would like us to know how to help these most vulnerable people with purpose, well and quickly. And at the same time, allow me to pronounce hope. The hope that if we behave rationally, we will listen to people and work together, as I feel today at the House's meeting, that this could work for at least the next few days and weeks, that what is troubling us most today, the Corona epidemic in the Czech Republic, that we can do it together. Thanks for the support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová will speak for the TOP 09 parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words for Club TOP 09. I certainly want to appreciate the steps that the government is doing very quickly in some aspects, and we certainly have been supporting the rapidity from the very beginning in some respects, even though we remain very vigilant. Therefore, I would also like to appeal to the government together as some previous speakers, so that this situation is not really abused and that in this emergency situation in which the Czech Republic is located, we also know the development scenarios with which the government and the Central Crisis Staff are working, and that we know what steps, or what conditions, must arise in order to disturb individual measures and to bring life back to normal in the Czech Republic. Certainly, what is happening in Hungary today is an example for us, and I would like to appeal very much to the words that the Prime Minister said in his opening speech, that is, the words that were aimed precisely at not misusing the situation. I'm sure we won't just follow this closely, but we'll try to cooperate to the maximum if you really mean it. The development and compliance scenarios of the Central Crisis Staff are one of the foundations that we have been demanding for several weeks, and I have contacted Mr Prymula Chairman of the Central Crisis Staff, with the fact that we should be very interested in getting the minutes from their negotiations. I consider it much better to be informed at a time when we, as Members, will actually have this information at our disposal. [[12.00 hours]] I must also remind you that everything is not always going on, at least according to the information we have, according to the Statute of the Central Crisis Staff. It states in Article 2 (2) that the Security Council of the State should primarily implement individual recommendations. And if I have the right information, it hasn't been together for many days and it's all government-solved. So I also want to appeal to compliance with these rules, which are clearly defined by the statute, virtually. and the law. I'm sure it's necessary to honor him now, even if we're in an emergency. I would also like to appreciate financial assistance, and it does not sound very much here, which is provided to us by the European Union. And we will ensure that it is used transparently. We also appreciate the fact that within the European Union, although often criticized by some of you here, the funds are going, for example, to develop a vaccine, that is absolutely crucial today. And please, in the context of this communication, let us not cause unnecessary harm to our relations with the partners with whom we form one whole, and we should also try to strengthen it in the future, not weaken it in this crisis. I want to appeal to both the crisis crew and the government in order to improve, indeed, significantly improve the flow of information that goes down from it. And now I don't just mean citizens. Now I really mean the individual files that are on full alert today. Because we're still getting bad information that mayors of the municipalities aren't getting them on time. Health and hygiene and other ingredients are still complaining that individual instructions are changing very quickly, but unfortunately the information is not getting to them as quickly as needed. I also want to call for information from citizens who are equally important, even in relation to what we are going to be discussing here today, and I believe that even in the next few weeks in the next package of measures, to be centralised in one single place on one website. I think that this is not only about health information, but also about economic aid measures that people can look forward to. There would really be a single information point for this, because it hunts from all possible press conferences, from individual ministries' websites, and the information is not good. I think this is the least the state can do for information at this point. We are constantly appealing for more testing, and we want to mention it here. Testing in recent days has been more than more than to increase the number of persons tested. We're starting to run out of test material. And I believe that on this level the government is doing and the Central Crisis Staff is also doing it, but I want to draw attention again to this, so that it is really tested as much as possible. Please use more Czech manufacturers whether protective equipment, disinfectants and a whole range of other materials including tests. Let me finish by talking about the proposals that we are going to discuss here today. TOP 09 comes with a number of economic measures, and many of them will also be in the framework of the laws and packages that we will discuss here today, whether it concerns the infirmary, the tradesmen, and we will also put forward amendments that we have unfortunately failed to succeed with within the committees, because we want the caregivers who are also here today to discuss to be in excess of 60 percent of the salary. This amount at the moment for such a long time that the parents of the children will have to receive it because the schools are closed, it is simply too low. And I think we should reach a compromise of 80 percent. But I'm sure that's what we're gonna talk about. At the same time, with this support, I want to express the expectation that this is far from over and that we will actually meet again here in the near future for the next package, which would contain what this support does not yet contain, regardless of whether it concerns businessmen, and that direct financial assistance has already been given to the very small ones, who have lost all their sales from one day to the next and are now fighting for survival. I believe that we all want the unemployed to grow as little as possible. And we strongly support and support the government in this. We just need to be even more forceful in these steps, and we really need to use that support to come up with a better package. However, one thing that does not correspond with those words about the non-violence of the situation is, in our opinion, a proposal that we are here to deal with today and was really introduced in five minutes by twelve, which concerns the Czech National Bank. In its character, this law does not really belong in a state of legislative emergency. We think that the Czech National Bank really should not buy government bonds and bonds. And if so, we are to discuss this in a proper legislative process. Then, if this is done, we will accept it. But what we can't accept is that the law is appearing here right now, at these moments, in a legislative emergency. That is why I want to appeal to the government so that we do not really discuss this law today. To pull him down. Because there's really no reason for us to rush into such a crucial matter. So please don't put this proposal in line if you want the whole debate to be really quick today so that we can jump to quick conclusions. The last thing we deserve, especially health professionals, first-line people, but also our citizens, who have actually taken the initiative immediately, embarked on a number of volunteer activities, helping their surroundings - thank you very much! Thank you for helping yourself, how responsible you are. And we want to appeal to those who are still indifferent to these measures, so that they do not take them lightly, so that they follow them. But the greatest thanks now go to all those who really fight in the front line. Often still without protective equipment. To these is our great support, we are with them constantly in our thoughts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. I'm just making a quick remark. I refer to § 99 para. The President of the Chamber of Deputies may decide on the accelerated procedure. I didn't make the decision. So we will not discuss the amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank today. Next up is the representative of the STAN Club, Mr. Chairman Vít Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u18	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Prime Minister, members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic. Please allow me to thank you at the beginning of my speech. To thank all the people in the Czech Republic who have shown that Čech are not the nagging nation who only curses at everything and is always dissatisfied. They have shown that the Čech are a nation of very active people who are able to improvise, who are able to solve crisis situations and who are able to really pull together at that difficult crisis moment. Let me thank the paramedics. I have a few of them in my own family, and I know that they are people who, at the very edge of their own health risks, devote their energy far beyond their work obligations so that there is no panic in the Czech Republic, so that people can heal, so that people can be sure that there is someone who can help them at that difficult moment. Let me thank all the paramedics, firefighters, police, but also the salesmen, salesmen, mailmen, all the people who are forced to be in direct contact with people every day. It is necessary, because these people do not hear many thanks. [[12.10 hours]] I also appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister mentioned many of these professional groups yesterday in his speech. Let me mention one more thing that I've been missing a little bit in that list. I thank the mayors and mayors with a small "s" across the Republic and across the political spectrum for how they manage to deal with crisis situations, for how they face the crisis that they have never experienced in their professional careers, for how they manage to spread peace in their communities and cities and help their citizens effectively and quickly, they can provide them with information, they can get support, even the basic, food, material, for seniors who are the most vulnerable group in our population. It deserves a great compliment and a great thank you, and not in vain, it is the group of politicians that has long enjoyed the greatest support of all in the Czech Republic. Allow me two more thanks. One is our scientists. Czech scientists, the jewel of what the Czech Republic has in the long run, show that they are able to respond enormously quickly to all the challenges that the new era brings, to come up with new technologies, to come up with new solutions that will immediately protect people. But let me thank the many times criticized public service media, because it has responded very well at the moment. We have children's shows, educational programmes for children, educational programmes, special programs for seniors who do not move on the Internet many times, and this is how information is easier to access. And let me thank perhaps a little surprisingly also members and members of the government of the Czech Republic for trying to face the situation, coming up with solutions that will protect citizens of the Czech Republic, and spending many days and nights in their work and trying to come up with solutions that will be effective. But at the same time, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister present, the ministers present, please do not take our partial criticism personally. We have repeatedly said that we are behind the measures taken by the government of the Czech Republic. We'll support you. All Members' clubs have announced in advance that they will support the economic measures with which the government is coming at this stage. But we all have our own individual life stories. I have a brother who's the head of a faculty hospital, and he's just not gonna let me point out that the faculty hospitals are still not adequately secured with protective material. This is simply not a criticism to bring political points. It's a criticism that's supposed to correct the facts that aren't working. Now we are all on the same ship and the transfer of information to you, and I am using a direct line, and during that time I contacted Minister Havlíček, Minister Hamáček, and I was talking to Dr Prymula, and we are transmitting the information in a non-conflict way, but you should also appreciate that the opposition is also able to gather information in the regions in its constituency that you can use. Please don't take this personally. The criticism of individual measures, if they are, is factual. At the same time, I would like to ask or support the proposal for economic experts from individual parties and movements to meet. It's necessary. We need to come up with a package of precautions. I do not want to imitate some previous speakers here, reading 15 proposals in the economic area of the STAN movement. Let us create a special economic grémium for all representatives of political parties and movements in the House and let us look for solutions that will really and really help people in the Czech Republic to overcome this unknown crisis. At the same time, I welcome the Government's proposal to invite representatives of the opposition to the crisis staff. It is reasonable, it is good, because all of us here in the House represent some part of society and the dissemination of information to all people in the Czech Republic is needed. At the same time, I would like to ask for a regular meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of all parties and the movement represented in the House so that there will be a rapid communication and transmission of information. As far as information is concerned, I would like to encourage local authorities to reach out to information about the regions in which there is a serious threat to this unpleasant disease, so that the mayors have information that they are infected in their territory. It's what's missing. And they are those who will not panic, they will not support any lynch infected, on the contrary, they will be able to take measures that will clearly help the whole thing. You need to think of the most vulnerable in this difficult time. They're seniors, of course. I would really like to call on citizens in the Czech Republic to support all the measures to protect this most vulnerable population, and to help seniors within their families and local communities. They are the ones who can be most at risk. Let us help in our families, let us not endanger irresponsible actions against our close unnecessary visits as well as within our families. Let's help them, let's buy them, but let's not threaten them. Please think of the businessmen. As STAN, we have also proposed, for example, a three-month compensation for all the losses that entrepreneurs currently have. We need to start the economy in the shape of the letter "V," which means there's going to be some rapid drop, but we need to make sure that there's a rapid upward rise here. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, this really is not the time for us to fight cheap political battles. We are all representatives of the citizens of the Czech Republic here in the Chamber of Deputies. We are all representatives of various groups of social, economic within the Czech Republic. But now all of them, no matter what they voted for, think of one thing: protect their families, protect themselves from the plague. All of them think about ensuring their economic future, and all of them are in a period of fear. Let's not take advantage of this fear, let's not use it, let's not succumb to cheap temptations to abuse the power they gave us in the election. Let us also stick to the crisis times of all democratic principles, let us not scare people by closing borders for two years, let us not scare them by the fact that these measures will be here forever and ever, let us not scare them with some political proclamations, but let us offer them solutions and let us try to tell people when the measures will end, and let us try to promise them that we will then return to the classic model of a liberal democracy of a confident country, a member country of the European Union, as it was before the outbreak of this crisis. It's important, people want to hear it from us. Above all, they want to see that, at a time of crisis, we, the Chamber of Deputies, are able to unite and show that we represent our entire nation, its various groups. There'll be plenty of time for guessing and for our political baggirls after this crisis has passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Today, he would like to thank, without distinction, all the speakers who have spoken here, addressed the public with their positions and introduced her to the fact that they are ready to help in these difficult days. This too is the role of Parliament, to communicate with citizens. And now, as has also been said here, as I hope, the time of words is ending and the time of action is coming. So I'm gonna call in my co-workers from the lobby. I conclude the debate on the issue of confirmation of legislative emergency and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There's 106 in vote number two, 98 against no one. The proposal has been adopted and we are on the agenda for this meeting. [[12.20 hours]] I already introduced you to the first impulse in the introduction, which was a letter from March 19th. On Monday 23 March, I received a letter from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš informing me that the government had approved Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, as amended, House Press 785; Government bill on special rules for admission to and termination of certain types of education in the 2019/2020 school year, House press 786; Government proposal for a law on certain adjustments to social security contributions and contributions to state employment policy and pension insurance in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic, House press 787; Government bill on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status, House print 788; Government bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, House printing 789. At the same time, I was asked by the Government to decide that the proposed laws, which we received as House prints 785 to 789, will be discussed at the time of the declared state of the legislative emergency in the shortened negotiations under Section 99 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. On 23 March, pursuant to § 99 para. By decision number 43 of the Rules of Procedure, I have ordered the House Press 785 of the Committee on Health, press 786 of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, press 787 of the Committee on Social Policy, press 788 of the Committee on Budgets for discussion and set them an unbreakable deadline for the submission of a resolution by 24 March at 10 o'clock. Furthermore, I have ordered the House Press 789 to the Committee on Budgets and have set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of a resolution by 24 March 2020 within 15 hours. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 42nd meeting, as shown on the invitation. Following what I just read to you, I'm going to read what today's grémium agreed on. We propose to complete the draft agenda for this meeting on House prints 785, 786, 787, 788 and 789 and you subsequently discuss it in this order: House print 784 - infirmary, print 788 - EET, print 785 - insurance against public health insurance, print 787 - social insurance, print 786 - graduations and entrance exams, and finally print 789 - amendment of the State Budget Act. If there is no objection, we would vote on the whole proposal by one vote. At this point, I have the only written application on the agenda from Mr Václav Klaus, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we as the trikolóra will support government proposals because there is nothing else to be done at the moment, we must be as united as the Čech, that is clear. However, I would still ask for two points when the meeting is over. One of them is the Information premiere on the preparation of hospitals for a serious increase in care - that is the name of the point. And the second is: reserves. This means that I would like the Prime Minister to inform us briefly about what measures are being taken, how the Czech Republic is preparing for a possible dramatic increase in the number of patients in Czech hospitals. Because what we see somewhere else in Europe doesn't look too good. Our numbers are much better, we all know that so far, but I would still like to ask what measures are being taken and what it looks like. That's to this point. I don't want to get to the point where it's like a mask, 'cause that's where we watched the peace, and then the improvisation. But some of those pulmonary ventilators aren't gonna be made by people at home anymore. That's one point. Second point. We will, of course, support various expenditures, but it was we who wanted a balanced budget while there was prosperity. That's when we got 77 votes. On the second point, I would like to call on the Minister of Finance to present savings of 200 billion within a time limit. The crowns that will simply be out of the expenses that we can pass on are thousands of things so that we can actually have the money to bail out the needed one. So that's the second point. And the third point I would like to hear - the statement by the Minister of Agriculture on how we are now preparing for the season and harvest, because the Czech Republic is long-term passive in terms of food production and I am not illusioning how other European and world countries will behave if the crisis is greater. So that's three information I'd like to hear, with which people turn to me, whether or not the members of the government could inform us briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-24-ps2017-042-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for this meeting. If not, we will therefore vote on individual proposals. First of all, the proposal of the Gremium, which I just read. I've summoned colleagues, but I think we're in sufficient numbers and we can vote. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who is in favour of the grémia proposal to include new points and their order. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 107, for 103, against no one. The grémia proposal has been accepted. We will now vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I didn't... I will try - Information from the Prime Minister on the readiness of hospitals, if possible, with this title. It is a new point proposed by Mr Václav Klaus. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Vote number 4, logged in 107, for 50, against no one. The motion was not accepted. The second point proposed by Mr Klaus is the report by the Minister of Finance, if we can, because I did not see how it went again after that. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered 107, for 42, against no one. The motion was not accepted. And the third is Mr Klaus' proposal - the statement by the Minister of Agriculture on the Czech Republic's readiness to harvest 2020 and in the field of food self-sufficiency. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 6, registered is 107, for 37, versus 1. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore now vote on the entire proposal for a 42nd meeting, as presented in writing and as adopted by the resolution or the proposal for a grémia. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's on the agenda. Who's against it? Voting number 7, 107 Members registered, for 104, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies has been approved. [[12.30 hours]] We will now proceed with the approved program. Before discussing the point
