ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u1	12. Proposal for a Law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic on tenants of premises used to satisfy housing needs, on the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and in connection with the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in the house with apartments /house printing 815/2/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and we received its resolution as House Press 815/3. Information about the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us. I will ask that the Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová take the position at the rapporteur's table. Before I ask her to bring this press back to the Senate, I will ask the House for peace. I would like to thank Professor Zamrazilová, who is leaving, for attending the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. And now I hope that the peace in the room lasts. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Let me briefly rephrase the bill. The objective of the law is to protect vulnerable tenants, in cases where other measures, such as the possibility of paying the rent due from the lodged security, or for a period of time when the tenant will take up the provision of housing benefits from the state social support system and the material emergency system, which may take time. In order to minimise the effects on landlords, the tenant was never exempted from the obligation to pay for housing services. The aim of this law is not to forgive rent. The aim of this law is the impossibility of giving notice because of the fact that, of course, the tenants can get into a problem situation with reduced income. Furthermore, the material solves the problem of repayment of the loan of the State Housing Development Fund. The draft law will allow the SFRB to comply with credit recipients who have entered into financial difficulties due to the impact of the Coronavirus epidemic. In such cases, the SFRB is able to evaluate the eligibility of applications on the basis of the supporting documents supplied. The state housing development fund has more than 20,000 clients, credit recipients. And such a third block of the law is the measure relating to the Services Act consisting of extending the time limits for the billing recommendation and, where appropriate, for the financial settlement of the costs of the performance associated with the use of flats and non-residential premises in the housing house under the Services Act. [[Delivery]] The reason for this proposal are the requirements of service providers and their suppliers, who are afraid that due to the failure of the workforce, they will not be able to deliver the necessary documents in time for sending the bill of services, and therefore the distribution of the bill will be delayed. Failure to comply with the time limit for receipt of the bill is very much sanctioned under this law. We therefore propose an extended period for billing services until the end of August. At the same time, of course, many service providers don't have long-distance deductions, which means if they can't visit those people in the apartments today, there are obviously problems with that. The bill was discussed by the Senate on 16 April and amendments were adopted on the proposal. It is a pity, of course, that the amendments returned from the Senate are considered as a whole. If they could be decomposed, which I can't, I would agree with many. Unfortunately, given that an amendment has actually been applied concerning state guarantees, which is also a fundamental disagreement of the Ministry of Finance, I therefore dare ask that the proposal be approved in the version approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u3	I thank the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, and I will ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor and justify the Senate proposal. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government, I am before you to defend, as Mr President said, the amendments from the Senate. I'll take the liberty of dividing it into four basic parts. The first and sixth are basically technical in nature, which corrects the legislative shortcomings that our legislation in the Senate has discovered in the law, which is quite understandable for the time frame in which the law was prepared for both the government and the Chamber of Deputies. On points two and three amendments. Here it came down to the fact that basically every tenant, in order not to get a statement, if he doesn't agree voluntarily, has to deliver a certificate to his landlord so that he can't get a statement from the rent in case he doesn't pay the rent. The amendment adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies was that in this government proposal, virtually. referred to us by the Chamber of Deputies, this certificate is issued by the Labour Office. I would like to say that the labour authorities are now one of the most busy offices in this republic. What will happen? The tenant doesn't have the resources to pay the rent. He has reason to be prevented from receiving income. For example, he gets confirmation from a doctor that he is in quarantine, he gets confirmation that he has to take care of the child, and thus he can be at home or from the employer that he has interrupted his activity. He takes the paper, takes it to the Labor Office, and the Labor Office gives him the paper that he got the paper. Only with the other paper will he go to the landlord's apartment. This is what we are trying to remove by recognising them, or by recognizing that the landlords of the apartments would have to recognise not only the confirmation from the employment office, but also from other public authorities, virtually. entities authorised to do so. So we're basically trying to prevent a collapse at the employment offices. That is point two and three of the amendment. Point four and five of the amendment is very interesting in relation to what the Minister mentioned that the aim of this law is to protect tenants. But what happened? According to the bill submitted by you, if the tenant doesn't pay his debts by the end of that withdrawal period, that means by 31 May, at any rate, he can get an immediate statement from the lease. I note that the valid Civil Code knows two limits: up to three rents and above three rents. If the debtor owes more than three rents, he can get an immediate statement. If he owes up to three rents, he can get fired, but with three months' notice. Here, if the tenant doesn't pay back the entire debt to the crown by 31 May 2021, he can be fired immediately. That's why the Senate's proposals are basically on the text of the Civil Code. And the last amendment relates essentially to the principle of this law, because - it is government law - the government has chosen to solve this problem, which is certainly small and which concerns tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of citizens, if they don't have rent to pay, instead of dealing with it directly at the beginning of the chain, so we have moved the problem one point further. In other words, we don't care that people don't have income, and we've moved on to not paying the landlords. [[11.40 hours]] What can happen? After six months, the problem will turn up again, because those people aren't really gonna be able to rent. And it's not true that it solves the housing allowance or the housing supplement. If the man doesn't pay the rent, he's not entitled to the housing allowance. I'm bohužel so. So in six months, we're going to have a lot of debtors here, not only on the tenant side, but also on the landlord side, who basically find themselves in secondary insolvency, stop paying their suppliers, not being able to pay or repay their debts, interest and so on. We therefore propose that not the State should pay for these outstanding debts, but only to take over the guarantee of 80 per cent, because we realise that all groups must participate in the resolution of this situation. I therefore ask you, honourable Members, to consider our amendments and to approve them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u5	Thank you, Senator Nytr. Before I ask if my colleague, Ivan Bartoš, who is the Committee's rapporteur, wants to comment on the Senate's position - I do not see it - in which case I state my apologies first. Mr Vondrák apologizes from 17 a.m. to the end of the day. And Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová cancels her apology. That's an apology. I will therefore start the debate now. First I see Mrs Pekarová Adamová with priority rights and then in the order of registration. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly for TOP 09, our club's position on this bill. We will certainly support the Senate version, because the Senate has actually worked on very important and substantial changes, which at least reduces the impact of switching the hot potato from tenants to landlords, to property owners. As we have already said in the House, we consider this chaining of problems, thus throwing them into another group of people, which we will throw back into their difficult situation, as a bad direction, as a bad procedure, and we want at least the guarantees that the Senate is putting in there, but also other changes to be made. And we're asking you very much to really put a good sensible solution first at this point, and no matter if the proposal is altered, if you want to support the original proposal because it was yours because it was government. I think it is quite clear that the situation affects everyone. Those who have some real estate, they rent it out, so many times now without interfering with it, they're trying to help their tenants. Whether it's a business establishment or a restaurant, whether it's a tenant who's in an apartment or some other form of housing, they're just trying to arrange because they realize that losing a tenant is hard for them even in this situation. Let's leave it to this agreement. And if we want to enter into a private relationship like this, at least in the form that the Senate suggests. The intervention of the state in private relations is really big, and it is not, even in this really exceptional situation, in the state in which we find ourselves, justified. And so if the version that went to the Senate from us in the House, which the government has designated, is eventually equally voted out, so there are many of our senators who want to join it, it is already de facto decided that they will prepare a constitutional lawsuit and want to challenge this, because it is really such a big intervention that they do not want to accept it. And I think we should try to avoid that. With regard to other possible solutions, as has already been said by the Senator, we should, in particular, help those who rent something, whether housing or for business purposes. The TOP 09, together with other opposition parties, has prepared this opportunity to help. We're going to do this at another point, we're going to do it in this compensation bonus, but there's a chance to help the state directly, without throwing over the hot potatoes, but they really helped the tenants to cope with their rents so that they can pay them, and give them at least part of it, so we're proposing a few different types of help in certain variants, so at least to contribute a part to them. Some of them are really on their way, because they don't have a single crown for a few weeks, a single penny of income, but these fees and many others, of course, aren't expected. Let's help them with this in the form of a direct compensation and not throw the burden on another group. This is a much better and more effective solution. We avoid secondary insolvency in the future, avoid the distribution of the problem only within a few months, which will come soon, and then we will face many problems again. That is why I am asking you to bear in mind that we have the opportunity here to support a better proposal from the Senate, and at the same time, at the next point, we have the opportunity to solve the problem at least for those who rent non-residential premises. Thank you for considering the support, although I understand that the government has a clear line in this. Try to think about whether there are any better solutions for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u7	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Now, Mr Martin Kupka. Mrs. Richterová will be ready. With the procedural performance of colleague Kubíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I propose shortening the time to one performance to five minutes for one Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u9	Thank you. We will decide the order number 56 in the vote. I'll check you out and apply for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide in this procedural proposal to shorten to one performance to five minutes. I've started the vote on order number 56 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 56 of the present 135 for 91 Members, against 20. The motion was accepted. We will therefore follow this resolution. Now, then, my colleague Martin Kupka can begin his speech. Mrs. Richterová will be ready. Just a moment until things calm down, Mr. Ambassador, so you can have a decent environment for your performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u10	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to remedy once again when we adopt the Senate version, serious problems and mistakes of the original government proposal. A number of arguments have been raised here. I'm going to add some more factual arguments about why we have this opportunity to take advantage of it. We have a Senate material on the table that solves a lot of things better than the original design. We would undoubtedly avoid unnecessary problems by accepting it and eliminate the major lack of the primary government proposal. Madam Secretary, when we discussed the proposal for the first time in the Chamber of Deputies, she finally mentioned that the government is saving people's heads. An impressive statement, however, has one fundamental flaw. The government isn't saving in this case, it's just handing the rescue over to someone else, ordering him to take care of it. And this is a step that, especially in a critical situation, the government of the Czech Republic should not do. [[11.50 hours]] Of course, we cannot blame the government for the crisis we are facing right now. We need to deal with the current situation. But pointing out only to someone who's supposed to get a black Petr and deal with the situation, it's just not right, it's not fair, and it's not constitutional in the end. If the government wants to solve a real problem that exists and which occurred e.g. even because the government had to take tough measures, and many people are really income-free now, so they also have to look for a way to balance those impacts between groups. Not by pointing out one that will bear the greatest responsibility. The state, like in other cases, is also supposed to come up with his real helping hand, not just by throwing it at someone. In the Chamber of Deputies, we have brought in several amendments that have even addressed the initial problem, which means that there is no problem of delay or of unpaid rent today. All those in large cities and municipalities who are in the role of the landlord will confirm that the solution to a number of serious problems of landlords begins in an immediate debate with them and in an immediate search for a specific solution. On the contrary, delaying the solution leads to debt traps. It's a proven experience many times. It's not America's discovery. If we want to help in this area, and there is really thousands of evidence, it means looking for an individual solution with these particular people, looking for it immediately and limiting the possibility of falling into a debt trap. But I understand in this case that the government is trying to correct, virtually. solve the most serious accidents where there is no other way and where tenants may or may not want to cooperate with the tenants for some reason. Again, the experience from the field is that even those who are in the position of private landlords are looking for a way to deal with the tenants so that it doesn't have to end with the accident that the law solves in the end. So much serious fear of debt traps about setting up the law itself. What the original amendment even brought in several versions, and what the Senate amendment brings, is an important step with state guarantees. At least that's the division of responsibility, at least that's the helping hand of the state to those who get secondary to serious complications as landlords. And they're not people of the second order. These are the same people as those who are often in the rents. For many of them it is not even a matter of their business. For many of them, it is a matter of basic life income in terms of funds at all. The moment these people get into complications because of the situation and the fault of the bad bill, it will mean more serious problems and other serious complications for them. The State guarantee is a road offered by other countries in Europe to landlords, by the way. They are heading in this direction precisely because they are aware that, in a critical situation, the real aid must come from the state, not only by throwing the problem at someone else. I beg you to adopt this logic in voting on this law, because it is not just logic, it is an important basic setting of the situation where this House and the government deal with the critical situation of many citizens. I am convinced that the arguments that have been raised here are convincing enough to overcome the wrong bill in this case. There is still time, there is still room to give a voice and give space to the Senate's adjustment, which is certainly more correct and healthier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u11	Thank you, Mr Kupek. Now my colleague Vít Kaňkovský, with only a factual reminder before Mrs Richterová, who is duly registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u12	Dear colleagues, I'm just voting for number 56. I voted against, I have a vote in favour on the electronic vote record. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u13	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Olga Richterová, Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, I take advantage of the fact that you are here listening to the debate. I know that this proposal has broad public support. I know that many of you sincerely believe that something will help. Prime Minister, you have just prepared a bill that is a trap. The proposal will dissipate the dosage system in such a way that it will throw people from poor endangered families into even greater trouble. I'll explain why. Prime Minister, the Housing Allowance Act clearly states that the rent paid for the last three months and from it, from what has been paid, is then entitled to state aid. How do you solve this? How do you get around the fact that when people stop paying, there will be nothing to give them a living allowance? That's a huge first trap. The second trap is that a number of landlords will be able to use the deposit deposit to cover the missing rent. Prime Minister, once again, there is a huge problem. The rent will look like it's been paid, but it's often contracted that the drained security has to be equal. At the same time, no housing allowance can be applied for to settle the security of the previously constituted bail. So instead of making a deal, now to postpone the payment on the basis of an agreement, there will be a trap, instead of supporting, for example, the benefits of emergency immediate assistance, the claim will behave as a normal debt that can't be paid out of benefits if it goes into bail like this. And bail is standard. The main question for you personally, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, is how you will deal with the unpaid rents in the autumn after the problem has been postponed. I don't think I'm personally blamed for not being socially sensitive by the Pirates Club. We are very concerned that people from vulnerable groups should not lose their housing. But the reality of your government proposal is that it allows eight months not to pay rent, of which three months not to pay services or energy, it allows people to be completely misled, dizzyed by a run-of-the-mill supply system, and in the final it causes much deeper difficulties than if you actually functionally used the current amount of extra immediate assistance to pay two to three rents and then you could normally rely on a reliable housing contribution. And since this is such a big thing about tens of thousands of landlords, private people, I will give an example from Prague. A number of seniors in Prague rent their apartment after widowing and do not improve their pension income, but pay for their stay in such better nursing homes. But those are services, they're not just rents. And your proposal may lead to the fact that these often lonely seniors will have nothing to pay for the residential services where they are today. I draw attention to the contexts that have been neglected by your government so far, and I am terrified that you will not solve what you wanted to solve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u15	Thank you for keeping time and we will continue. The next performer is Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Leo Luzar will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u16	Of course, I must respond to the previous speaker. There's no way it's a trap. The right to live, to live alone, that's not an ordinary thing, I think we can agree on. Likewise, if some previous speakers are wedged in here by the Constitutional Court, I would like to point out that the right to housing from the point of view of the Constitutional Court and its caselaw falls under the so-called necessary living conditions. This is how not only the Constitutional Court but also the European Court of Human Rights decides in the long term. We therefore have two rights, a right of ownership and a right of residence. That didn't sound like it, and it's fair to say it. And that also justifies a little why it is not a trap, why the government has not gone mad and why it is definitely not true that the law says: don't pay rent for eight months. I am strongly opposed to this, and I hope that we will explain it more closely with my colleague Olga Richterová, because there is no such thing in that law. Don't pay rent for eight months. As regards the decision-making of the courts. Good manners, ladies and gentlemen. Even in normal times, not coronaviruses, and not in the context of a declared emergency, the court will not clear the rent of the apartment for reasons of good morals, even if there is so much rent due, that this law does not even dream of it. Good manners apply to emergencies. And I want to tell you who's turning to me. If you are being approached by owners who are afraid that this law will not be used, and I understand that, then I am being approached by tenants who are not afraid, but who have already done this, when after one hesitation, the default of several hundred crowns, is threatened by an exit on the street in an emergency. In an emergency. And that's what we respond to. In any case, we have no interest in intervening in private relations between landlords and tenants in any permanent way. I also want to respond to what Mr. Senator here said. It is not true that he has the tenant's time, if in any way because of the coronavirus he is late with the rent, until May next year. We've adjusted that. On the basis of the agreement here in the House, we agreed that in quotation marks of grace - you will not be thrown out on the street from your home at the time of Corona - is valid until the end of July, and get this fixed in the four months, just four months, by the end of the year at the latest, it is actually a legal payment schedule. If you ladies and gentlemen find one thing, I'm sure I speak for the entire government coalition, not us. It's not a trap, it's help. And now for the fact that we're not dealing with income. Of course, we're dealing with income. Even together with the opposition in this legislative emergency and in the previous one, we voted on a number of things where we replace revenue. How is it that we do not deal with potential investment homeowners who, for example, save for example in this way to provide housing for their children or retirement? Why aren't we seeing this? Didn't you notice that we voted to postpone mortgage payments? There are these questions, these fears I have not heard. They didn't fall here. We're talking about the right to live in ordinary tenants and that they can be late in a few months in payment. It's definitely not a message -- and I'm talking to these tenants too, of course -- don't pay three months' rent. No way. And now I'm going to suspend my colleague Olga Richterová's contribution. Long-term cooperation across the political spectrum and we are trying to make sure that the right to housing is not only on paper in the Czech Republic, but to make it work, so it surprises me that it mentions that perhaps we are creating a trap by this law, and even we may be responsible for not paying rent. That's exactly the opposite. She's right about the housing contribution that doesn't apply to the rent due. That's true, but that's true even in normal times, that has nothing to do with it, this law or coronavirus. And we, of course, have already said this at the House plenary last time, we will respond in the debate of the Minister for Regional Development and the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs during May on how to set up an entry into the support of state social, housing and housing allowances, so that these people do not fall out, because logically we are changing the conditions. This is just buying time. It's three months. No booby traps and no rent payments. In conclusion, I will end with what Klára Dostálová ended up in the last legislative emergency. By this law, the government protects people's right to housing and their home at the time of coronavirus. What don't you understand? What's so scary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u17	Thank you and Mr Leo Luzar will now appear, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me thank my previous speaker first, because I think she's caught the foundation that was supposed to sound here. And I think we should get back to the reality of what the bill is about. Here it is automatically assumed that one hundred percent of tenants in commercial leases - I stress in commercial leases - are not paying them and are only waiting for them to stop paying rent. It is also automatically assumed that one hundred percent of those who rent are commercially renting their properties are all humane people waiting to accommodate those poor tenants. Unfortunately, the reality is somewhere else. And this proposal, which is here, is that, in exceptional cases, it is possible to do so in such a way that the tenant is not able to make human arrangements with the landlord. And this, in my opinion, will be perhaps a percentage, perhaps even a perm of those leases, when they simply encounter an absolute unwillingness to discuss how to bridge this time together. I firmly believe that most landlords will retreat and say, you know, I understand, you've lost your income. Look, we're gonna make a deal, three months you're gonna pay me, like, 20 percent, so I can have the expense of not having it. I get it. On the other hand, I understand, I believe the tenants, when they come, dear landlord, I apologize, but this has fallen out for me, you know, I have a spare of money here, I'm supposed to go on vacation, I'm not going on vacation, I can't, so I'm going to give you the money, but I'm not going to give you all twenty thousand crowns for everything I'm giving you, but I'm going to give you maybe ten. It's a human attitude. But here it's automatically assumed that it's just not gonna work that way, and it's making up fantasmagory. I really think so. So this is really a one-off matter related to the current situation, affecting a minority of tenants and a minority of landlords. Why is the employment office there? It is precisely because when someone is unable to agree, it is quite logical that the tenant is in a completely weaker position. And the tenant should be documenting some of the landlord's papers that he doesn't have the funds, we understand, but he needs an arbiter there. The one whose opinion would be clearly given, and that is, in general, a state authority, a state authority, a labour office. And in that proposal, the idea is that if a person is taking any other dose associated with the coronavirus crisis, he's somewhere in the system. The system is complex at the employment office. And all I have to do is tap into a computer, jump out, collect a dose, make it possible to apply under this law, and, on the other hand, give an honest statement that it does not have the means to replace it. In other words, it can avoid the speculation that I have money, but I want to take advantage of it. Two papers, one of which is an honorable statement. That won't be a burden on the labour authorities in these individual cases. But the point is to solve the individual cases that I'm sure are going to happen, but it's not, as I repeat, it was said here at the beginning that there's a hundred percent of the tenants' crooks and a hundred percent of the good landlords. It's going to be individual and we're going to be dealing with these. That's why I thank you for the proposal. And on the other hand, I feel a little bit, and I apologize to my previous speaker on the part of the pirate who used the example of Prague. I am already a little allergic to the cases of Prague where the whole Republic model is built on the Prague case. How many single retirees in Prague rent their properties and live, here it was said, in better social homes and pay for it? What about the rest of the seniors in the Republic? How do they work if they don't have the opportunity to rent this here, because there's an apartment situation somewhere else? Here, using this example of Prague seems very unserious to me and it is also necessary to think about the remaining citizens in the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u19	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr Jelínek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would first like to respond to my colleague Valachová, asking how you have not yet changed the rules for this contribution. After all, the law has been put forward with the fact that the existing rules allow us to pay benefits to those people, only that for this reason we have to extend it until July because it is being evaluated on a quarterly basis. So how is it that this law is already here after the Senate comeback, and you haven't even introduced a proposal to modify the rules for the housing allowance? That's the first thing. Two. You haven't responded to the bail trap at all. That is the fundamental error of the proposal. There's a bail trap where people think they're protected from the deposition, they don't pay for it, then it's deducted from the bail they owe, and they get fired. The eight months. I'll tell you how we counted the eight months. So you have March, April, May, June, July - that's five months - and then you have three months, when the tenant is protected from testimony by the existing rules, that is, August, September, October. The next three months, if he doesn't pay the rent he has, he's gonna accumulate at eight, so the landlords aren't gonna get paid for eight months. And that's the basic problem that we see. And then the reason we're supporting the Senate proposal. Today we will be discussing the House's 832 press, with 150 billion state guarantees for banks receiving loans, a government guarantee of 80 to 90 percent. They are loans up to CZK 50 million. Here it gives the state 150 billion, and now stand on a matter where it isn't about banks, but in the vast majority of cases it's about small landlords, for whom only the cash flow blackout, when people don't have to pay their rent and they don't get a statement because of it, the cash flow blackout is a big hit in life, so those small landlords are refused to guarantee 80 percent if they don't get paid after half a year, while the banks are giving 80 to 90 percent of the state guarantee. It seems totally unfair to me, and that's why we support the Senate version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u21	Thank you. Mr Pavel Jelínek will now appear, Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we unusually support the Senate's proposal for the SPD. Not that I'm looking for any connection between the Senate and the House and different opinions in these individual institutions, but we're assuming that rent is a bilateral agreement. On the one hand, it is the tenant, on the other hand, the landlord, and in many cases it is actually ordinary citizens. If the tenant does not pay, the landlord will also get into certain financial problems. In this Senate proposal, where the state guarantee institute is being created, we see a certain helping hand, in fact, to both sides. If, as a state, we explain to everyone that they are to make sure that they are to receive some kind of retirement income, then there are probably a lot of people who have bought an apartment in this matter, then they may have moved to a village or a garden colony, and they are essentially using the option of renting an apartment to improve their pension. And that is why, in fact, we support this proposal by the SPD, which creates an institute of state guarantee. That's one thing. The second thing is that in the Senate proposal that... on the one hand, there wasn't much time to create a completely precise form of this proposal and it would certainly be possible to complete a lot of points, or to precise it, but the situation was such that it was created within some time limit, however there is another institute and that is basically simplifying the proof of the impossibility to pay. Personally, I believe that the employment authorities have a lot of agendas they have to deal with, and if they get another agenda to confirm the inability to pay rent, it certainly doesn't make the job easy for them either, and it doesn't make it easy or it doesn't actually allow them to use this option from ordinary tenants. So at least on these two points, pragmatically for the SPD, I'm making a motion to support the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u23	Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková, Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My dear colleagues, I am actually acting partly because I wanted to respond, by your means, Mr President, to Mr Ferjenčík's speech and cannot respond to it in the light of the procedure we have approved, Mrs Valachová, so I hope that it will partly cover my speech and what it would say here. I'm just specifying that the calculation you've made here isn't exactly accurate, at least as quickly as I've calculated it, so basically from August 1st, the person should be paying the rent, because we have the deadline set by 31st. 7. and by the end of the year, as we approved last time, they have to pay for everything. So I don't know how you guys came up with those moons you guys were saying. First of all. Two. One such formal matter, which Mrs Valachová has just brought to my attention by your means, Mr President, when I asked how far those billing laws are. Of course, they are as far away as they can be, which means that they are only spoken of in the level that the concept should look like, but it cannot yet prepare specific legislation when we have not approved this law. We have to approve it first, and when we approve it, the legislative work can also be started and the final regulation, which is, of course, already being prepared conceptually, can be finalized. And finally, to the third time in Prague. I'm from Prague. I have listened to Mrs Richterová's speech through you, Mr President, and I must say that it is such a generalisation, a very rude one that does not describe the real situation in Prague, and I do not think that, as Mr Luzar, my previous speaker, has said here, the situation of seniors in Prague would be so significantly different that it would require a different solution and that the current situation would be so catastrophic. At least that's how I felt about the message. I'm sorry if I felt that way too much. And they're turning to me as Human Rights Commissioner for seniors, and if they're not complaining about something, that's exactly what they're talking about. On the contrary, it is welcome that they will have some time to prepare themselves. Of course, each of us is always following his personal interest, and we need to find a balance. I think that this law is a kind of balance between the interests of two groups, which, luckily, as has been repeatedly highlighted here, in 90 percent of the cases, they would rather agree than act under any legal intervention in the form of a law that we are going to adopt here, that they would have to force themselves to this agreement in the way that the landlord would have said, well, unfortunately, otherwise I would have fired you a long time ago. I think it will be an absolute exception, even in Prague, and in other locations. I think we should not discuss this at all, we should approve it and rather look for the very paths, the sooner the better, how to allow those who continue to need support to ensure it in time and simply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u25	Thank you. I have Mrs Ožanová's application here with a factual remark. I merely recall that there is an agreement that we will not apply factual remarks. And I don't think she's interested, so I'm gonna sign her off. prosit, Mrs Věra Kovářová in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief comment on the return from the Senate. The original government proposal was a good intention. However, the result is that the negative effects can be on the tenant's side as well as on the landlord's side. As regards the negative effects on the tenants, the proposal makes it impossible to give a statement merely because of the non-payment of the rent at the relevant time and the interpretation of the law does not imply that the law would assess the maturity. Therefore, if the tenant is late at the relevant time, the outstanding amount will increase by interest on the late payment until the full payment of the debt. There is nothing to prevent the landlord from subsequently seeking payment of the rent in court. In addition to the interest on late payment, the debtor's rent may increase by covering the costs of the judicial and, where appropriate, the execution procedure, which would be completely liquidation for most tenants. The tenant would thus, paradoxically, be even worse off than the law assumes. And now the negative effects on the landlords. Clearly, a small portion of landlords can also get into economic problems. In many cases, the apartment is burdened with a mortgage that is paid directly from the rent. If, as a result of exceptional measures, the owner's own income is lost, he will be in an unsolvable situation. He won't be able to repay the loan on his own. If property prices fall, it could then be forced to sell the apartment below price and it is not excluded that it will not cover the entire outstanding part of the loan from the purchase price. Here you can see that there are risks on each side, and the Senate proposal kind of limits some of the risks, virtually. It reduces and therefore STAN will support the Senate version, even because the Senate has proposed a State guarantee to the lessor of 80 per cent of the principal of the debt when the tenant does not pay, and I think this is the right solution. Because moving the problem from the tenant to the landlord is not right and the state should at least in some way give the landlord a guarantee that his blackouts will not be so significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal - giving up priority rights in favour of Mr Tomáš Martínek, who is signed up in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u28	Thank you. I would just like to point out, following the debate, that in a moment we will be approving the Act on State Guarantees for Business Loans of 150 billion, where we are also giving 80- or 90-percent guarantee on outstanding loans. Therefore, I do not see the argument of government parties sometimes objective in this principle, because also tenants, virtually. Owners of real estate and landlords who will now be threatened existentially in some cases, I see no reason not to offer them the same guarantee as the Senate suggests, or in some other better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u29	Thank you. And Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. honourable Member, honourable Members. I'm going to continue with such an interrupted dialogue between colleagues Ferjenčík and colleagues Richterová, Valachová and Válková, because these rules do not allow us to deal with this in any other way. So, of course, we agree that the right to housing takes precedence over property law, that's not what the dispute is about. But the point is that the changes, the way the law is designed, how you try to grasp or how you try to solve the current problem outside the current batch systems, etc., thus the solution creates a risk of breaking down any existing relationships or breaking down the current setup and functioning of the batch systems, as we now have set up. I'll try to give you two examples here. One example is that if someone receives a housing benefit and now avoids paying the debt, then he will not be entitled, virtually. the right will not be calculated from what, because he has not paid the rent in the previous months, so there is no rent that he would have paid in the past, and according to the law, the housing allowance is simply calculated on the basis of the rent paid in the previous quarter. And if there's no rent paid, there's just no contribution. That's one problem we're trying to draw attention to. And the second case is when the rent due, the rent that is now forgiven or not paid because the tenant has actually lost his income and can't pay the rent, and so the rent due doesn't stop, but it pays off the previously folded principal, at which point the debt is not a house debt, but it is a common debt and again, it cannot be used by the delivery system to pay it in the future. That's the problem I'm trying to draw attention to here. Those are the two traps we're talking about, if I've interpreted it correctly. Thank you for your attention. These are the things where we express our fears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u31	Thank you. And that was the last application for the debate. No one else reporting, I'm done with the debate. Interested in the final words... He has both the Secretary and the Senator. Then Madam Secretary will take precedence. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u32	Well, thank you for your word. I will try to be very brief, but I would like to comment on some points. First of all, it's time to say again - please, it's not about not paying rent. I beg you all to register. It's really about people not getting fired. It's probably necessary to say those time limits again, because there really were many, someone in months, someone in false terms. So the decisive time is until July 31st, just as we modified it by the amendment here in the Chamber of Deputies. The withdrawal period expires at the end of this year, that is to say 31. 12. 2020. And now that we're talking about the numbers in months, it's also important to remember that rent is paid in advance. This means that probably March and April are passé. At the same time, of course, we are discussing whether the right to a housing benefit or not is a housing benefit. We talked to Minister Maláčová about this. Of course, emergency immediate assistance can be applied. That means it doesn't apply. And again, I warn you, we never said there wasn't going to be any rent. Rent related to housing services must always be paid. Therefore, some income will also be provided by the tenants within the benefit they will apply for. The second thing I would like to comment on is that I fully support Mr Kupka's words here. Yes, the payment schedule -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u33	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. [[Minister Dostálová: I was turned off... is the best way to...]] But I will only interrupt you for a moment, because I wanted to ask the Members to keep their voices down, so that we can all hear you. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u34	So the payment schedule is definitely a step in the right direction. On the other hand, the hand on the heart, not all of them, of course, behave like very decent communities, which, of course, are converging with their tenants. The third thing I would very much like to mention is the state guarantees. Here it really needs to be realized that the agreement between the landlords and tenants, where the tenant would pay a reduced amount to, for example, the landlord's hand - how do we know? - and then the landlord will claim an 80-percent guarantee from the state, which will simply lead to many possible, unfortunately, unfair practices which we would certainly very much like to prevent. [[12.30 hours]] And in the context of that, unfortunately, the Senate did not take over the guarantee, as some Members suggested. The so-called indent 4 was put in there, which refers to the fact that the deferral of repayment of principal payments and credit accessories is governed by a special law, and in footnote 1 that this law applies to a loan agreed and drawn before 26 March 2020, which means that, in essence, if the guarantee had been approved in this way, it would have concerned one month's rent. Therefore, I dare ask again, let us approve of the version of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u35	Thank you. Senator Zdeněk Nytra and his final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u36	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Hello again. I will also try to respond to the discussion. First of all, I have to apologize because I was still drawing on the original government draft, so, yes, of course, that deadline is not until the end of May, as I was talking about it, but until the end of the year, a withdrawal period. On the other hand, when I listened to the debate, I did not hear - with the exception of Mr Luzar - the claim that 100 per cent of the tenants are taxpayers and 100 per cent of the landlords are humane. As is the case in life, on one side and on the other side are both good and bad. Nor does anyone suspect the government, and we discussed it in the Senate that the government or the Chamber of Deputies would say that rents do not have to be paid. Unfortunately, there are citizens among us who have interpreted it this way. I'm not going to divide this company into Prague and the rest, but when I come from Ostrava or live in Ostrava, I know what I'm talking about, who thinks that way. The problem with the employment authorities. In that case, if there is no problem with the employment office, then the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs did not speak quite correctly within the Senate, because we also agreed during the discussion of other laws that there is a problem at the labour offices today, and unfortunately this measure, which is there, is only paper paper. The Labour Office will be in the same bad time or situation, which means it will judge something, I don't know if it understands it, it will be a formal matter that will employ the labour authorities. As for the tenants, I will allow you to read one paragraph that we are concerned about: If the tenant does not pay all claims that have become due at the time, the landlord has the right to terminate the lease without notice. - In other words, this law is far harder on tenants than the Civil Code. Unfortunately, if he owes 10 crowns, at the end of the withdrawal period, if the tenant owes ten crowns, then the landlord - I do not claim that they are all - generally has the right to give the tenant an immediate statement. Then I heard something about the balance between two groups. Now I don't know if the balance is legal or mathematical. After all, I'm the original engineer, so somehow I don't see the balance when the problem shifted from the tenant to the landlord's side. Definitely. The landlord basically has to agree, or he has to suffer unpaid rent for a certain period of time, certainly, and then, of course, comes under the obligation to pay. Given what has been said that far from all will not pay rent, and I believe so, I also live in a rental apartment and pay, but it is not important, I think that the large majority, so I dare say that this is what we proposed 80% guarantee only for unpaid rents at the end of that withdrawal period will not be such a big problem for the state budget, and we have enough time to find - what the secretary mentioned in her final speech - a mechanism for how the landlord will have to prove that he did not really get the rent paid. Thank you for your attention and, finally, I would like to ask you to approve our proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-003-012.u37	Thank you, Senator. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. Before I make the motion for a resolution, I will unsign you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. Motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus on tenants of premises used to satisfy housing needs, to the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and in connection with the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in a house with flats, according to the Parliament's press 815/2, as approved by the Senate, according to the Parliament's press 815/3.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 57, 178 Members registered, for 80, against 59. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of Members, 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The number of votes we need is set. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic on tenants of premises serving housing needs, on the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and in connection with the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in the house with flats, in the version in which the Senate was referred, according to the Parliament's press 815/2. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 58, Mr 178, in favour of 121, against 31. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the Minister and the Senator, and I conclude on this point. Next, we're going to look at the point.
