ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin the 73rd meeting, a few organizational comments. I would remind you that the 74th meeting will begin at 12.00. If the House's press is negotiated 966, we will also end meeting 67. And now I am opening the 73rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and welcome to all of you. I've just checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again, to present yourself, or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 48 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 20 November this year. We would first proceed to the selection of verifiers. But I'll wait until the deal is filled. [[He's waiting a while.]] There. I propose that we designate Mr Petr Dolínek and Mr František Kopřiva as the verifier. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I don't see anyone. Mr Beitl votes with replacement card number 10. So I look around the O.R. again, I don't see any other proposal from the verifier, but we have to wait a little longer. [[There's not enough kvorum.]] We can hold on just a little longer. I just want to take advantage of the fact that today is 26. It is the 11th and birthday of Mr. Jiří Kohoutek, so Mr. Ambassador, happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] And it worked out well with the birthdays before we wished you well, so we filled the bargain with, like, double congratulations. We will therefore vote on verifiers. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number one, 86 Members are currently logged in, for 84, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Petr Dolínek and Mr František Kopřiva, as verifiers of the 73rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Today, we are back in half. I am of the opinion that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. From members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová for work reasons, Jan Blatný for work reasons, Jana Maláčová for work reasons, Lubomír Metnar for work reasons, Tomáš Petříček for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Miroslav Toman for work reasons. Madame Members, first of all, in order to follow the right procedure, we will resolve this. On 9 October, by my decision number 70, on the basis of the Government's proposal, I declared a state of legislative emergency. Furthermore, I am under § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies decided to discuss the Government Bill amending Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the Protection of Classified Information and Security Eligibility, as amended, House Press 1090, in a short hearing, and I ordered them to be discussed by the Security Committee and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution to this day by nine o'clock. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this. I'm asking if anyone is interested in speaking to a legislative emergency. I see no one, I end the debate and we proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 90, for 86, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. And now we're going to set up a 73rd meeting, whose proposal is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act, the House shall decide only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. There. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 73rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 3, 90 Members registered, for 75, against 10. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that the agenda of the meeting has been approved. Opening point number
