ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 228/2020 Coll., on the granting of a State guarantee to the Czech Republic to secure the debts of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, a.s., arising from the guarantee for loan debts in connection with the mitigation of the negative effects caused by SARS-CoV-2 /house printing 1057/ - shortened negotiations We should now, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 to vote or to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the said proposal are in the accelerated procedure. I am opening up a debate on this. No one is to be heard in the debate, so we will vote on the following motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 228/2020 Coll., on the granting of a State guarantee of the Czech Republic to secure the debts of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank arising from the guarantee of credit debts in connection with the reduction of negative impacts caused by SARS-CoV-2, House press 1057, in a shortened hearing." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 64, 91 Members registered, for 81, against no one. We've approved the short-term negotiations. And on that basis, I will ask the Vice-President of the Government, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the Government's bill amending Act No. 228/2020 Coll., on the granting of a state guarantee of the Czech Republic to secure the debts of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank arising from the guarantee of credit debts in connection with the reduction of the negative effects caused by the virus. It is a proposal approved by this Chamber of Deputies in the spring. He responded, he was actually, he created conditions, or for the first time in the history of state... for the possibility of granting a State guarantee on loans granted to entrepreneurs and small medium-sized firms in particular for operating loans up to 50 million. You know that the guarantee was 90 per cent for companies up to 250 employees, 80 per cent for companies above 250 employees for operating loans up to 50 million. At this point, about 2,000 requests are being processed, roughly for about 13 billion. However, the program ends at the end of this year. I don't think there's any doubt about her need to go on. And the proposal, which I am now proposing, responds to the fact that the European Commission, on 13 October 2020, last or this week, has decided to extend the temporary framework for State aid measures to support the economy in the current spread of Coronavirus COVID-19, on the basis of which the COVID III Guarantee Programme has been notified. If we want to take advantage of the current extension of the temporary framework and to allow the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank to provide guarantees for loans to entrepreneurs in 2021, it is necessary to extend the relevant period in this State Guarantee Act, which covers the entire COVID III programme. The temporary framework itself has been extended by the European Commission only six months, although the Czech Republic and some Member States have called for support for the lending of entrepreneurs throughout 2021. I believe that in the coming months, the European Commission will be convinced and further extended. Therefore, the draft law is presented in a text that meets the current time limit for the temporary framework, but at the same time will not require further legislative change if the temporary framework is eventually extended further until the end of 2021. We have dealt with Commissioner Vestager, she has promised that we will return to the negotiating table in the spring, and we are convinced - because it is not just the Czech Republic that is pushing it, other EU countries are pushing it. Furthermore, the draft law responds to a strong demand for firms to extend the COVID III programme from operating loans also to investment loans. In the past two months, repeated discussions have taken place between the Ministry of Finance and representatives of entrepreneurs and banks, and they all agree that the extension of the COVID III programme to investment loans is desirable. The temporary framework of the European Commission does not limit the possibility of granting a guarantee to a specific type of loan, so we should use it fully to support our entrepreneurs. After all, a number of other Member States have prepared their programmes to aim to support both the financing of operations and investment. [[12.30 hours]] So the bill, as it is presented, first extends the period for negotiating a loan with the guarantee of the Czech Moravian guarantee and development bank by 12 months, i.e. until 31 December 2021. Secondly, it extends the period until 30 April 2026 for implementation of the State guarantee in favour of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank. Thirdly, the condition of granting a State guarantee only on operating loans is abolished. Fourthly, a correction is made to a manifest error in the text of the law arising from the adoption of an erroneous amendment in the Chamber of Deputies. The proposed amendment to the Act can be expected to have positive economic effects resulting from the extension of the duration of the company's aid. More than 2,000 applications in excess of CZK 13 billion have been approved so far in the COVID III programme. However, twice as many applications have been submitted and approval is still ongoing. It can be assumed that the need to support operating loans will continue in the coming months. The total state budget performance limit of CZK 150 billion remains unchanged. The other parameters of the state guarantee will remain as agreed on this year's Parliament of the Czech Republic. Finally, I would like to point out that the extension of the period until which the performance of the State guarantee in favour of the Českomoravská Guarantee and Development Bank, i.e. the provisions of Section 2 of Law No 228/2020, effectively limits the duration of the guarantee for loans under the COVID III programme. In this case, the wording of the European Commission's temporary framework is not clear, so we have adopted such an approach in the preparation of the Government's proposal and we have actually defined it in the way I have described it here. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal set a deadline of 30 April 2026. At the same time, I am fully aware that it is desirable to allow, I think of the repayment period, the granting of the guarantee for as long as possible, especially for investment loans. Therefore, negotiations with the European Commission continued in parallel to clarify the interpretation. On Monday, 19 October, the European Commission confirmed that it would be possible to set a longer period for the exercise of the right of performance under the State guarantee until the end of 2027. This would allow loans agreed at the end of the COVID III programme, i.e. at the end of June 2021, to be guaranteed for a period of six years in the event of further extension of the temporary framework at the end of December 2021. Therefore, if an amendment to extend the period in Section 2 until the end of 2027 is loaded, I am ready to support it, as I said yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u3	Thank you. The Committee on Budgets has dealt with this proposal from the President's commandment, discussed it, adopted a resolution, we have it available as the House Press 1057/1. Now, I ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Miloslava Vostroa, to inform us of the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, as has already been said, the Committee on Budgets dealt with this press at its meeting, at its 46th meeting, and adopted the following resolution. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance, the report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 24 hours on 21 October 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that, with the Government's bill amending Act No. 228/2020 Coll., on the granting of a State guarantee to the Czech Republic to secure the debts of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank arising from the guarantee for credit debts in connection with the mitigation of the negative effects caused by SARS-CoV-2, the House's press 1057, has given its consent as amended by the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u5	Thank you. And now, once again, we must decide whether or not we will have a general debate. Once again, I have called on all Members who are not in the Chamber to come to the vote. We'll wait a little bit. We are now, I think, ready for the vote. We are therefore voting on whether we will have a general debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, 93 Members signed in for 76, against no one. We have approved the general debate. Therefore, I am also opening up a general debate. Mr Milan Feranec is the first to be signed in, Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly introduce you to the amendment by my colleague Jan Volný to this law. I will then join him in a detailed debate. The change is simple. In Article 2, paragraph 2, the words "30 June 2024' are replaced by the words "31 December 2027'. I'll follow up on what the secretary said. In fact, if we approve, we will actually extend the state guarantee to the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, namely until 31 December 2027. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u7	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, President Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present my two amendments to this proposal, which concerns state guarantees and lending. The first concerns that we want the COVID Plus programme provided by EGAP to be sufficiently transparent as the COVID III programme, i.e. to publish guarantees as well. In the COVID Plus programme these are loans for larger companies in probably larger volumes and therefore, according to my transparency, it is appropriate here. The amendment aims to increase transparency Export guarantee and insurance companies in the provision of guarantees in relation to the pandemic COVID-19. EGAP is a credit insurance company with a focus on market uninsurable political commercial risks associated with financing export of goods, services and investments of the Czech Republic. EGAP is a state-owned joint-stock company. The Czech Republic exercises its shareholder rights through the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic. Transparency is generally regarded as a means of increasing confidence in public institutions. In this case, transparency is a means of increasing the credibility of the State-owned Export Insurance Corporation in its role of providing guarantees as an emergency measure in order to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic in order to increase the availability of liquidity for export-oriented enterprises. For this reason, we propose the determination of the obligation of the Export Insurance Corporation to publish information on each guarantee provided in connection with the pandemic of COVID-19 in a way that allows remote access no later than 15 days after the date of granting the guarantee. The information disclosed should include the amount of the guarantee and information on the debtor and the creditor. For natural persons, name, surname, year of birth and identification number and for legal persons, name, identification number, name of beneficial owner. This information should be available within two months of the calendar year in which the credit or the loss of the guarantee has been repaid in another way. The second amendment concerns a moratorium on repayment of loans. As we know, on 31 October of this month, a moratorium that was approved with the first wave of coronavirus on mortgage and other loans is thus ending. Since the situation is not much better than in the spring, I would say that it is much worse, people do not have at this time, many people do not even have any funds saved up, even in the spring, we present a proposal that would allow the moratorium to be extended by the same time as in the spring, i.e. until January or April next year. [[12.40 hours]] I believe that even banks can accept and understand this amendment. Most people who have resources and do not get into trouble are not worth using this moratorium because they continue to run lending. So it should really only apply to those who run interest rates. So it should really only be about those-- they're running interest rates. So it should really only apply to those who really need it. And I don't think we want to leave anyone on the street. And we should support not only this setback of interest rates, which can help not only those who live in a mortgage property, but also, for example, their own property, which they rent, so that they can negotiate with the tenants, for example, to postpone payments for rent, etc. In connection with the second wave of the disease pandemic COVID-19, by declaring an emergency and adopting government measures, we propose introducing a second withdrawal period in the area of repayment of loans. As in the spring, there is now a massive increase in outstanding debts from agreed loans, cash lending and other similar financial services. The main principles of the amendment introducing the second withdrawal period for repayment of loans remain temporary, broad scope, optimization and neutral effects for the provision of new loans in the economy. The essence of the temporary nature is the determination of a fixed period during which the adjusted rights of creditors and the obligations of debtors will apply. The broad scope means that, in order to eliminate a possible discriminatory approach, the law applies to all entities that have negotiated a loan in different forms in the economy, i.e. both for consumers and for businessmen, companies, corporations, although for each of these categories to a slightly different extent. Optionality is a principle which means that the debtor can take advantage of the relief granted by law only if he actively asks for it, respectively. they shall be registered with them by notification to the creditor sent. The second withdrawal period applies only to running loans. If a new loan is negotiated during the protection period, the standard regulatory regime shall apply to it. As in the spring, the repayment of the loan on a legal basis is postponed at a time in which the major economic effects of the COVID-19 crisis are assumed. The aim is to prevent delays and related consequences for the debtor - sanctions, negative records in the debtor's registers and related reductions in the debtor's credit line - as well as for credit institutions in the role of creditors. The deferral of the instalments shall take place when the debtor has notified the creditor. Deferral of instalments actually means their shift over time by a certain period set by the law, i.e. after the end of the second withdrawal period, i.e. 31. 1. 2021, respectively. 30. 4. 2021. This will also modify the payment schedule, respectively. the redemption regime. In the event of a delay, the loan shall be remunerated for the grace period. Thank you for your attention and once again I would like to ask you to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u9	Thank you. The President, Mr Marian Jurečka, will now be speaking, so far the last one entered in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to appeal very strongly to the Minister and to the members of the budget committee of the House before I address my particular amendment and observations on this press, so that the press, which was concerned with the compensatory bonus, should really approach those amendments that I and some other colleagues from the opposition have read with the utmost consideration. Because now that I've had the current extraordinary press conference after the government's meeting, when there is further significant intervention in our economy, you would be limiting other sectors of services and specific trades, in discussing and recommending which amendments yes or no, so that you would really consider this very strongly. Perhaps the ideal case would be to return the press to the second reading, to open it again and possibly parametrically in another way, because the information that sounds here in these minutes by the Prime Minister and other members of the government, I think it is a really significant intervention in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people in the Czech Republic. Now to this press, which we have here before us. I come here with what I was trying to push through here at the time of the first wave so that, as the Czech Republic, we send a clear signal that if we want to help our companies, we want to maintain employment, we appreciate the companies that do business in the Czech Republic, so that in this situation we can also clearly give priority in relation to the fact that we value especially those entrepreneurs who not only do business and employ people, but also reside here, pay taxes and bear social responsibility in this form for the development of our society. Therefore, I propose that, in the case of those entities that will receive support under this legislation, whether it is a loan or a guarantee loan, so that we do not want these entities to reside in tax havens. After the debate that took place here in April of this year, I do not list tax havens in the press, but I give an open opportunity here to make this form a list of tax havens or countries where there is an extremely large incentive from the state in the tax field so that this list of countries can be made by the government in the form of government regulations. That seems like a lesson to me from the debate, it seems fair to me, and I would like this matter to be incorporated into this legislation. It also seems fair to me to make it clear to me that those entities that are going to draw these forms of support so that they do not make their profits in the next two years in the form of dividends abroad, even though someone is in a situation where they need support now and the support through these instruments is definitely not small, these are large amounts of support, so that at least the next two years will also be relevant to our Czech Republic, our economy, and therefore they do not provide their tax mother with funds from income that it will acquire in the Czech Republic. And there's also an extended condition that he doesn't buy out, virtually. did not acquire its own shares. So these things seem logical to me. I think that we should also send a clear message to hundreds of thousands of companies and businessmen who have been in business for over 30 years, based in the territory of the Czech Republic, pay taxes, are here with us, as they say, for better or worse, so that we can say that we really know how to appreciate these, we support these, and those who do not, who are here, draw other benefits, and at times when there is plenty, they optimize their profits so that they simply see that when they do so, they should not then ask for any kind of support at the time when the difficult situation comes, any guarantees from the state from the money of the Czech taxpayer. They're supposed to be asking for that support where they're based on tax, where they're using the environment. That seems fair to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one writes in the general debate; I am ending the general debate. There is no interest in the final words after the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate. The first in a detailed debate is Mr Milan Feranec, Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I hereby declare the amendment to the House document 6515. Justification - I refer to the written amendment and what I said in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u13	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, President Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u14	I am committed to the proposals that I justified in the general debate. They are also justified in the press, of course, which have the number 6469 and 6470. [[in documents]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u15	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u16	Thank you, and I am now, in a detailed debate, reporting to the House press 1057 on the amendment that I tabled here in the general debate, and the amendment has number 6504. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-006-005.u17	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? It is not, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Once again, I am interrupting this item for preparation for third reading. And then we have a point number.
