ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u1	442. Proposal to extend the duration of the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic /German press 782/ Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar, according to the Government resolution at my disposal by a letter from the Prime Minister, is responsible for the submission of this proposal by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. I thank Mrs Jana Černochová, who is already at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for this House press. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I will ask the House for peace! If you're still discussing the last point, please be in the foyer. I therefore now ask the Vice-President of the Government, Karel Havlíček, to present the proposal for the Minister of Defence. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the British Military Advisory and Training Team is working on our territory within the Military Academy. vyškově 2000 and its purpose is to train Petty Officers of the Czech Army, the armed forces of NATO Member States, the EU, the states involved in the Partnership for Peace programme and selected partner states. In 20 years of team activity in our territory he attended his courses by almost 10,000 members of our armed forces and foreign forces. In the past five years, our soldiers, the soldiers of Georgia, Ukraine, have been most represented in the courses. The team has the character of a military unit and therefore its stay on our territory is subject to the consent of Parliament. This consent is always limited to five years on the Government's proposal and is therefore repeatedly extended. The current Parliament's approval of 2015 will expire on 9 October of this year. At the request of the British Party, the Government, in line with current practice, proposes that Parliament agree to extend the stay of the team for another five years. As before, the number of members of the team will be limited to 30 members of the British Armed Forces. The number of foreign soldiers in the individual course will be as well as up to 100 people. The continuation of the team's activities confirms that Brexit did not interfere with bilateral Czech-British defence relations, which remain above-standard. The team's activities also contribute to increasing the prestige of our country among the states that broadcast their troops into courses organized by the team in our territory. Thank you for your attention and please support the submitted material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. The resolution of the Defence Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 782/1. I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Jana Černochová, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to be dealt with by the Chamber of Deputies. Madam President, I will ask the House for peace before I give you my word so that you can justify the committee's resolution in a dignified environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really asking for peace of mind. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have information that the Minister of Defence is at the President's meeting, but he should probably get to the House in a little while. I think this point is not conflicting, it was approved by our committee in March, so we could certainly discuss this point here without the presence of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Dear Minister Havlíček, dear colleagues, this material is presented to us periodically every five years, for the fifth time since the British Military Advisory and Training Team for Central and Eastern Europe has been operating on our territory since 2000. Its effect is prolonged every five years. Given that this activity has the character of the activities of members of the armed forces of other states in our territory, both from the United Kingdom and from the States involved in training courses, this is subject to the Constitution of the consent of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, as is the case with sending our soldiers abroad, which is another point. Minister Havlíček has already provided a number of information on the activities of the advisory and training team itself, which is why I will not elaborate on this any more. I believe that this deployment or, respectively, this training course is seen as very beneficial for the Army of the Czech Republic and for the soldiers of other allied armies. The material was discussed by the Defence Committee at its 31st meeting on 7 April 2020. He adopted the following resolution number 163, it is House press number 782/1. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening performance of engineer Radomír Jahoda, responsible for the management of the Defence Policy Section and Strategy of the Ministry of Defence of the Chief of Staff of the Czech Armed Forces, and army general engineer Aleš Opata, news report by the President of Jana Černochová and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that it agrees with 1. extending the period of operation of the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic in the number of up to 30 persons with a estimated stay of five years starting on 10 October 2020; 2. the stay of members of the armed forces of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and EU Organisation, States participating in the Partnership for Peace Programme, the Republic of Kosovo, the Kingdom of Jordan and the State of Libya in order to participate in training courses organised by the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic, with the fact that the number of members of the armed forces of those States seconded to training courses does not exceed at any time a hundred persons in a single course; II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In a detailed debate, Mr Vice-President, I will therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies approve the resolution recommended by the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I can therefore end the general debate. Probably won't be interested in the final words when there was no debate. In that case, I am opening the debate in detail. Also, I don't have a written application. But I see the rapporteur's application. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies approve the resolution recommended by the Committee on Defence, which I presented in the framework of my intelligence report, in order to agree to the extension of the work of the British Military Advisory and Training Team of the Czech Republic and to the stay of members of the armed forces of other countries participating in training courses. We all know that, therefore, the majority of Members have to agree here, that is, before the vote, we should change the quorum to 101.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u7	Thank you. Who else will be in the debate in detail? I don't see anyone. That concludes the detailed debate. I'm going to ask that the necessary kvorum be set up. It's already done. Since we have one motion for a resolution, we will vote on the motion for a resolution, points I.1 and I.2, a motion for a resolution concerning the residence of foreign troops in the Czech Republic. This is what we will decide in voting number 247, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 247, from the presence of 174 for 143, against one. The motion was accepted. I thank Minister Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the Government, and the rapporteur, and I finish point 442. Just a moment. [[Call off the microphone.]] Okay. I now see Mr Stanislav Juránek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u8	In this vote, I voted in favour, and on the rocks, I think I've been delayed. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-002-442.u9	Thank you, it will be recorded in the log. And let's open another point.
