ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended /house print 532/ - first reading Before we proceed to discuss this point, it is necessary to vote that pursuant to § 52 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies agree with the participation of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr Jiří Rusnok, in discussing this point. There's a checkout request. I'll ask you to rejoin your voting cards. When the number is settled, we will vote on whether we agree with the presence of the Governor of the Czech National Bank in discussing this point. Looks like - no, not yet. [[After a while:]] Now. [[16.50 hours]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees with the governor's presence. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 57, 157 Members and Members are registered, for 154, against no one. So please welcome the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, who will follow the debate and can also report to it and participate. As I said before, we are now discussing a government bill amending Law No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, House printing 532. We're at first reading. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor. Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Governor, allow me to briefly state the Government's bill amending the Czech National Bank Act. The content is an amendment that was in the legislative process, and maybe some of you will remember, already in the last parliamentary term, but the debate in the Chamber of Deputies has not been completed. One of the most important changes is the incorporation of a new authorisation for the Czech National Bank to set the upper limit for selected credit indicators concerning consumer loans secured by residential real estate. This is an important instrument of so-called macro-prudential policy, which will enable the Czech National Bank to achieve an important objective of financial stability, and at the same time it must also be seen as a way of ensuring a level playing field on the domestic market. In the future, it cannot be excluded that mortgage loans will also be increased by non-bank providers or foreign entities in the context of their cross-border activities. For these people, the form of recommendation is not sufficiently effective due to the competitive struggle. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I therefore consider it essential that the Czech National Bank has a tool to support financial stability, which will be effective, i.e. acting against all relevant entities, and enforceable. The legislative anchoring of the instrument of so-called credit indicators for mortgage loans is not Czech specific.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u3	Madam Secretary, I would like to interrupt you and call on my colleagues in the hall, especially on my right, to move their possible meetings outside the O.R. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The majority of Member States in the European Union have taken a similar route, and this instrument is repeatedly recommended by the International Monetary Fund to the Czech Republic. On 23 September 2019 the European Systemic Risk Board published a warning for the Czech Republic, pointing out the vulnerability of the domestic financial sector in connection with the financing of the purchase of residential real estate, including the absence of legally binding credit indicators. We certainly must not take this explicit warning lightly. Moreover, the next steps of the Czech Republic in this matter will be closely monitored by the European Systemic Risk Board. I would also like to remind you that this part of the proposal was the most discussed amendment in the last parliamentary term. Some partial parametric changes have been agreed in the Committee on Budgets, which are already fully incorporated in the draft bill presented today. Last but not least, I would also like to point out that a relief for young applicants under 36 years of credit has also been added to the proposal compared to the previous version. For them, the limits would be milder. In addition, the proposal also contains a general exception where 5 per cent of the loans will not be covered by the limits of credit indicators at all, thereby covering specific cases. I therefore believe that this current proposal, which has arrived in the Chamber of Deputies, is balanced and acceptable. The draft law also brings an extension of the range of monetary policy instruments as well as of the entities with which the Czech National Bank can enter into free market transactions, which is fully in line with the European Central Bank's international practice and practice. I assume that there will be a detailed discussion on the proposal both in the Committee on Budgets and in the plenary at the next reading. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, since this law has been prepared in the joint competence of the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, I assume that it will be approved, I do not want to speak into it now, with the presentation of the Governor of the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u5	Yes, the consent has already been made. I therefore ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Dolejš, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear guests, the long-awaited amendment to the Czech National Bank Act has thus landed on our tables and today we will decide on the first reading, i.e. whether we will release it further and how we will start the debate for possible adjustments to this proposal. As the Minister has already submitted, this proposal concerns not only the parameterization of mortgage loans, it has a broader scope, although it may have escaped your attention somewhat so far. It is framed by some implementation issues as well as some inspiration, some urgent inspiration from foreign European institutions that go beyond what we have to do, but let us say that we have been inspired because we consider this a serious problem. Basically, these things outside mortgage loans are mainly about the possibility of using unconventional monetary policy instruments such as long-term securities, direct support for credit emissions and so on, so we are inspired by what some banks are already doing in the European Union, and secondly, it concerns, say, trading banks, trading on the free market and credit operations, which is a matter of allowing the Czech National Bank to have a broader range of these operations. But when I focus on what most of you have probably been watching, and those who have been here in the last parliamentary term have also had the opportunity to comment on this subject, it is, above all, the issue of the legalisation of those instruments which have a preventive function to prevent a certain systemic risk in mortgage loans and which have not only been inspired, but, for example, by the warning of the already mentioned European Systemic Risk Board. In 2016, the situation was somewhat different in addition to the fact that there were early elections and that there was no consensus on this material on the part of the then government coalition, but the situation is changed mainly in the area of compromise towards the relief of mortgage borrowers. So we need to look at it with a new optics, not just a copycat at the time of the debate at the end of 2017, or in the spring of 2017, when the debate was culminating. The truth is, of course, the tools we are talking about are already being used. Even the first instrument, which is a matter of measuring the value of collateral, the loan to value indicator, is used in the long term and is basically used in most European countries, although, of course, its quantification is an issue, I would say, always of the actual increase. [[17,00 hours]] Perhaps you have noticed that there is now a very lively debate on whether the current setting is okay or whether it should get tougher and go somewhere lower, up to 70 percent. But I don't really think that's where the center of gravity is. Basically, the Czech National Bank, which has been operating with these instruments on the basis of recommendations so far, has gradually used other instruments to do so, whether it concerns debt services, i.e. debt service, or debt itself, when these parameters are determined roughly since 2018, and we can already evaluate how this recommendation was accepted by the sector, i.e. the financial institutions themselves. Of course, two views are clashing here, and that, on the one hand, is the availability of the loans to applicants, at least from a formal point of view, because then, of course, whoever draws on the mortgage loan must also be able to repay it. And that is where the opposite approach arises, that is, the prudential one, when the Czech National Bank, as a supervisory institution, is based on the fact that in a crisis - and let's just say that in the time of the repayment, which is not short but long, we cannot expect that there will be constant good economic weather, that the repayment capacity will not be good at the time of the crisis, and that the relatively small percentage of the bad debts, difficult to obtain, could be dramatically worse. The balance sheet, which of these principles should have the upper hand, virtually. how these two principles are interwoven in real practice is also the basis for the processing of the RIA message. Anyone who wants to study it is, of course, part of the press. But like I said, it's not just the current situation. This is primarily about the ability to estimate, i.e. predict potential risks to the future, and there will undoubtedly be some debate in the next round over this material. The fact is that we can inspire the stories of the great crisis, namely 2009, 2010, when Ireland, which had a relatively benevolent mortgage lending policy, had a relatively short period of time created about a quarter of those invalid, infected, toxic, whatever you want to call loans. Perhaps even more dramatic is the story of Greece, although it had somewhat more complex causes. Do we have reason to believe that this story threatens us in any way that something like this could happen in the foreseeable future, i.e. at a time of maturity? And to what extent are the serious warnings of those supranational institutions that inspired the Czech National Bank? That, of course, is the question. It can be recalled that the International Monetary Fund mission also argued in a similar way to Europe, i.e. that this is not an isolated argument. If I mentioned the experience during the 2018-2019 period, it must be said here that most of the banking sector respected the recommendations, or not legal, enforceable things, under sanctions. But that it's right in the law, so the question is, to what extent it could get worse. The truth is, of course, the situation has evolved. In 2018, around the spring when the policy was adopted, there has been some decline in credit agreements concluded. But the truth is that other influences were also reflected in this, such as: that property prices were rising, the volume of the loan also increased as property prices increased, and, of course, the problem of the repayment also increased. And the responsibilities of banks themselves to control the client and to say that it will be able to repay us, it will not, therefore, lead to the fact that the volume of loans decreased somewhat in 2018 but also in 2019. Some of this leads to a problem, i.e. basically a deterioration in availability, someone has it as a healthy signal, i.e. even the banking sector, without it being legal, so they are no longer careful and do not engage in problematic loans. So, of course, the data for 2018 and 2019 can also be understood in different ways. The truth is that volume e.g. business in this area fell by about a fifth last year, which is not enough, and it sends a certain signal about the relationship between supply and demand, but it does not mean that regulation itself is something bad, that the problem may be more complex in nature, that we are talking about the powers of the Czech National Bank, but we are actually talking about the situation on the housing market. And of course it is influenced by other factors. And, of course, the solution is not only in the area of authorising the Czech National Bank, it is only concerned about ensuring stability, but we, if we are concerned that housing in this country is not a luxury for people to reach it at all, we must, of course, look for other ways. If the compromise has been mentioned that softens the situation towards the young, then, of course, this is an important shift. It can also be discussed because there is a question of setting the age limit, I guess 36 years, for a possible married couple they are both. I noticed that, before discussing this material, the views were expressed that it was enough if it were to be one of the spouses. That is, of course, a matter of further debate. The truth is, the five percent of the space given to special cases is also enough for now. Of course, it is also about when the credit agreements are provided, so always considering what the ultimate purpose of the applicant is. And when we look at the statistics on housing purchases, it turns out that, in a substantial part, these people are interested in residential housing, just to have a place to live, but some people are already getting second housing, which is already with a question mark, and, of course, when it's buying investment flats and in bulk, that's a completely different story, and let's say there's a hidden problem. Up to one third of that volume can be directed towards those buyers who invest in this way, because real estate, what we're going to talk about, in uncertain times, the money is stored relatively reliably and often the investors and foreign nationals, foreigners. In Prague, it is common for Rus, Němec, etc. to buy large apartments. etc. With regard to the level of problematic loans currently, i.e. the current rate, the truth is that it does not signal a repeat of the Irish or Greek story that the average rate of that default in the European Union is somewhere around 2-2.5%, or it is not dramatic. It is also true that those countries of Europe that have a certain degree of regulation can be inspired, but it is honest - and if you look at the RIA report, there is even a table with a list of how it is in those particular countries. It's very different. In the vast majority of countries, the LTV - loan to value indicator, in some countries, added the debt indicator - debt to come or debt service to come. And in few countries there are all three, or the question is whether the whole ply of these instruments, as it would be in the law, whether we are relatively more rigorous than the European average, whether it is appropriate, but that again I would probably anticipate a debate in the direction of second reading. The truth is that some countries of the type of Slovakia or Portugal, Denmark, are probably the closest ones to the proposal, it is not entirely unique. [[17.10 hours]] The question, if it makes sense, came to the debate, for example, with representatives of the banking sector. The representatives of the Czech Banking Association, who did not directly contradict the agreed outcome, although of course, yes, they would accept how we agreed on how the law would end here, but they really felt that they had enough arguments because the current model worked. I'm saying this for the objectivity of the discussions. Part of these discussions has already taken place on the ground of the Banking Sub-Committee, although I myself believe it makes sense to release this proposal by first reading and concentrate on the debate in reading the second. I will end by saying that if we are dealing with the issue of regulation of this sector for the sake of stability, obviously we also need to think about B, even if we do not solve this press, and this is the issue of housing, the increase in housing costs. And let's be honest, that's just the segment that's growing the fastest. In all those 25 years, if it has grown eight, nine times, so the item, if we narrowed it down purely to rent, so especially since it reached deregulated levels with gradual upward steps, it has grown the most, and that is not the weight of the factor in real estate prices taken into account enough, so probably the price index would then be even higher in the housing costs. So it shows something. It's clear that we're going to have to deal with the bidding party, too, because there are some reasons for the price level here. And let's just say that as long as the apartments are this expensive, the risk of problematic maturity is simply created, so the obligation to co-finance from own resources and all the reservations that are there for these indicators are justified, because it is mathematically based on the level of risk. So we have to think about how to influence the real estate market a little bit. Specifically in the Czech Republic it is, I would say, more skewed than in other countries. It's probably more of a question of the supply side, and if we want to do something for a cheaper offer, let's say even the developer has to do something about his investment strategy for the future. But that's running a la longue, that's running on a longer track. Here I think that this proposal brings some logical solution, which includes the compromise, which I think corresponds to the debate that is also taking place on the ground of the European institutions, and that we should actually release it to the next reading and all that is weighing us on this subject, to resolve it in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u7	I also thank you for this comprehensive news report. I'll introduce you to a note first. Mrs Taťána Malá apologizes from 5:30 pm to the end of the illness hearing. I am now opening up a general debate in which there are three applications at the moment, but the governor is reporting, so if no one objects, I would give him my word at the moment. Mr. Nacher reporting? [[For the debate.]] Please, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, both Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak briefly. The Vice-President of the Government has summed up the main, probably the most interesting part of this joint proposal, and the rapporteur has spoken very extensively about it, so I would like to mention just a few things in two brief remarks. Firstly, I would like to mention the more detailed proposed central bank trade arrangements, as central bank transactions constitute an important instrument for implementing monetary policy. Let me remind you that this is essentially our key task and the primary mandate as a central bank to take care of monetary and price stability. The essence of the change proposed in this draft is that the number of types and types of transactions and circuits of entities with which we as a central bank can carry out these transactions in financial markets is expanding. Recent experience in advanced economies shows that an existing set of central bank operations, which is now in force by law limited only to credit institutions and a maximum maturity of three months, can be too restrictive for the practical performance of our tasks in a situation less standard of development than normal. The potential counterparties to these transactions are thus expanding in the draft amendment to other entities operating in the financial market. We also believe that the current set of eligible assets for these operations, which today consists only of selected notes, government bonds and some other securities, is desirable to extend to other financial instruments, and the proposed amendment therefore aims to loosen up the existing restrictions somewhat and expand our monetary policy options in the most effective way possible according to the particular situation. It will also be possible to respond better to potentially poorly predictable or unpredictable events that may require more operational intervention in monetary policy settings. I would like to stress that these transactions carried out by the bank within the framework of monetary policy can - and thus will remain that way even after the amendment has been approved - only in order to fulfil the legal objectives of the CNB and after an assessment of the specific situation. From the point of view of European regulation, the European dimension does not actually bring anything new in this area, like the mortgage regulation, or perhaps unusual. These are things that normally central banks in the European Union have at their disposal. Secondly, this will be the second point, I would like to say that the proposal also contains a number of partial amendments and amendments to the CNB Act, which I also consider important for the smooth functioning of the central bank. This concerns, for example, cooperation with other institutions, such as the methodology of interest calculations, which has the character of penalties for non-compliance with minimum reserves, the refinement of rules on statistics and reporting, the strengthening of the CNB transparency, in particular as regards the content of the management result report. Here I would say, for interest - here it is suggested that in the report on the management, in addition to the current information on the salaries of the Bank Board members in the same form, namely, we also report on the salaries of senior staff under the direct management of the Bank Board. Furthermore, adjustments affect the refinement of internal areas, such as the issue of waiver of confidentiality of CNB employees and restrictions of their involvement in activities outside the central bank. Some amendments are then of a purely legislative nature. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my conviction that the bill will be released until further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u9	I also thank you and we will continue the general debate where I have three written applications at the moment, and I do not know whether Mr Nacher is also reporting for the debate or with fact. Also for the debate. Okay, in that case, Mr Munzar, then Mr Martínek, then Mr Skopeček and then Mr Nacher, if anyone has not yet signed up in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u10	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, Mr. Governor. I only want to comment on that part, or I will only comment on the media-interesting part of the amendment to the CNB Act, and that is mortgage regulation, virtually. increasing the powers of the Czech National Bank in the area of mortgage regulation and in relation to the current market situation. We will not lie to ourselves that this proposal of powers and any further regulation of mortgages resulting therefrom will restrict the access of the middle class to its own housing, to ownership housing. That's probably why they do it. It has become recently, not only the CNB, but also the government is focusing purely on regulating demand for ownership housing, thereby increasing the cost of acquiring ownership housing. When we look at this, what we have been discussing here only during this parliamentary term - the government is refusing to cancel the property acquisition tax, which is further increasing the cost of acquiring ownership housing by 4%. The government has increased the cadastral charges. The government, thanks to the Real Estate Intermediaries Act, increases the prices of real estate services. And now he is presenting a proposal to increase the power of the Czech National Bank, which aims to further make access to mortgages more difficult. All of this is being done by the government now and in cooperation with the CNB, which leads to property housing being as expensive and as low as possible. Unfortunately, those are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. It is paradoxical that this proposal, which results from concerns about overpayments and defaults of mortgages, comes at a time last September when, for example, the share of outstanding mortgages, mortgage loans, fell below one percent for the first time in modern history. Under one percent! It is basically in the Czech Republic, in terms of mortgages, almost perfect payment morale, because it is not only those who have been in some kind of disaster for some personal reason. And here we are terrified of the risk of defaulted loans as an argument to introduce new powers to the CNB, a central bank that will allow further regulation of mortgage loans. But by regulating the demand for property housing, you will not reduce the need for middle class, and not only for middle class, for all people in the Czech Republic to live, you will only transfer this demand and need to the rental housing sector, where there is the same problem as for the ownership. It's a shortage of flats and a rise in prices. By transferring demand from ownership housing to rental growth of rental housing prices, we will only accelerate. And that's how the cycle spins, because people living in rents are going to have more expensive rents, they're going to have less money out of payouts to save their mortgage shares. For example, savings are the biggest limit for young people to buy housing. This is the amount of savings they have on the mortgage and the real estate tax. Surveys at the end of last year showed that half of the young have less than CZK 100,000 saved for housing. This is certainly not enough at current real estate prices. Therefore, the mortgage is often the only alternative for them. Not surprisingly, with this rise in real estate prices. And what has the government done to prevent prices from rising and ownership housing being made available? What did the government do? Nothing. The government has done nothing! And with this situation, these measures and further regulation, we will only make the whole situation in the housing market worse. As the rapporteur has already said, the government, together with the CNB, proposes that the limits on credit indicators be set in all three categories, which is a relatively rare issue. At the same time, there are no limits for the Czech National Bank in this proposal, and therefore we are giving the central bank a certain blank check if we accept it in this way. And so that we don't wonder what central bankers might fill it with someday in the future. Let us remember how many wondered, for example, about the length of interventions against the crown and the amount of costs it brought. So, with one breath, the government wants to complicate both middle class and young people's housing purchases with its proposal, and at the same time it wants to fit into the role of savior of young people because it also proposes some relief and exception. And that really is such a trick. We're gonna tighten up the regulation and we're gonna make an exception at the same time. You know what would be the greatest relief? Not to suggest this increase in powers at all. But I'm worried that the current government feels it has to speak into everything, it has to speak to people in life, that someone wiser has to decide who can and who can't take a mortgage and whether we have a large share of ownership housing and if we do not happen to have a different share of the housing market and the like. Let's leave it to the people. Let's leave it to commercial banks that provide this money. And in their main interest, it's to give it to people who will be able to repay the mortgage. Let's not give this authority to the central bank. And to make a proposal for such an unlimited large-scale competence to the Czech National Bank, where we have a share of outstanding loans of around one percent, that is a certain negative gesture - let's say the morning gesture of President Vondráček - of the middle class. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u11	Thank you. And now, Mr Martínek. Mr. Skopeček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we have a stable financial market and de facto there are no companies operating on the market, on the mortgage market and others, without the regulation of the CNB, the vast majority of regulated entities on the market comply with the CNB's recommendations, I believe that the approved new powers of the Czech National Bank are too great. For mortgages, I can imagine legalizing the power of the Czech National Bank to determine the amount of LTV or DTV. The CNB itself notes that the property price is overvalued by around 15 percent, so the set LTV should fully cover the potential risks of both creditors and mortgage applicants. The problem is mainly with income criteria, i.e. DTI and DSTI, which should continue to be addressed only at the CNB's recommendation level, otherwise the availability of mortgages could be impaired, especially for young people. Banks often do not recognise certain types of income, such as fixed-term income, scholarships, or have distorted information due to the use of trade-off expenses. If the press goes through the second reading, we will try to adjust this. At the same time, we will want to simplify the position of citizens up to 36 years so that it is sufficient that the condition of 36 years meets at least one of the applicants for milder conditions and not all of them, as proposed now. We don't want to make the availability of property housing worse. Furthermore, we believe that an extension of the range of assets with which the Czech National Bank can apply monetary policy is also a problematic provision. We also see no reason to do so now. That is why we propose to return this press to the recast, with the comments I mentioned being incorporated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u13	Thank you. I've noticed your proposal. And now, please, Mr Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. It will be a bit of a paradox, but while there was a lot of debate in the previous law, and it was a law of much lower importance than the one we are going to discuss now and which is coming back from the last parliamentary term, where we agreed, sort of across the political spectrum, that such a dramatic, brutal increase in the powers of the Czech National Bank and such a dramatic, brutal restriction on the mortgage market simply do not want to admit, so let me just point out that the law that we have let fall under the table with our eyes closed, returns to us de facto in the same form that we rejected it in the previous parliamentary term. And while we spend hours here discussing whether the VAT rate is to be one percentage point higher or lower, and we are to wage political battles here, we have a law that will increase the powers of the Czech National Bank, which is very high today, in a very strong, brutal way. [[17.30 hours]] I am mostly the defender of the work of the Czech National Bank, I appreciate its outputs, its analytical outputs. In fact, I think that in the history of the Czech Republic, the Czech National Bank was an institution that helped economic growth and development of the Czech Republic, with about two exceptions, to step on the economy and increase interest rates and share in the economic crisis in the 1990s. And my second criticism is the commitment to keeping the crown, foreign exchange intervention, which, it hasn't been that long, has ended. I really want to wake you up from lethargy. This law brings a significant increase in the powers of the Czech National Bank and it is not only in the area of regulation of the mortgage market, but, as the Governor himself admitted, if we approve the law, we will put in wine other instruments called. non-traditional monetary policies. So if you liked it, and if you're not worried about what the world's big central banks were doing when the money rolls started, when they went into negative interest rates, when they were buying into bank balances bonds of companies and states that were trying to save, that's exactly what we're gonna do to the Czech National Bank. I don't want it. I believe that the Czech National Bank only needs traditional monetary policy instruments, that when it ran out of these traditional instruments, it could touch an unconventional instrument in the form of weakening the koruna. And I really don't want to watch the balance sheet of the Czech National Bank grow, as it does in the astronomical heights of the balance sheets of the central banks in the world, which are filled with securities that a normal investor would often not buy for a penny. I really do not want to do this, and please consider, when you vote on this law, whether we really want to give the Czech National Bank the same tools that many economists, both practical and theoretical, look very much when I use the word classic, with their eyebrows out, because no one has any idea what it will do to the huge amount of money that those rotations have eliminated towards the economy after the last crisis, what it will do in a few years. On the other part of the law, I would almost say a little less significant than the increase in powers in the field of non-traditional monetary policy instruments, but equally serious, to mortgage regulation. Here, the Czech National Bank wants a fire-fighting tool in its own hands. Because what caused the increase in the volume of mortgages? What caused the increase in the volume of the entire credit mortgage market? Well, of course it was cheap money policy! The Czech National Bank reduced interest rates, and the world, wonder, clients, citizens responded by buying housing at a lower price of money. What else should they take when they see other central banks liquidating any assets in which it was previously possible to invest to raise any reasonable interest through an enormously relaxed monetary policy? This monetary policy, which the Czech National Bank wants to do with these unconventional instruments, has liquidated. And people were considering it, and it was a good idea for them to deposit their money in real estate. Hence the increase in the volume of mortgages. Of course, because of that, and my colleague Munzar was talking about it here, because he didn't come by for many reasons, so the price of the mortgages went up. So in addition to the low interest rate, there was an increase in real estate prices and we had a very fast-growing mortgage lending market here. However, it must be said that the Czech National Bank wants us to use the tools that it wants to put out the fire itself. The Czech National Bank also uses the tools it wants from the law, which are to be legal form, today. All three instruments are already de facto ordered by banks in the form of recommendations today, even if it is a recommendation, so of course the banks respect that. And they respect this because the Czech National Bank, as a supervisory authority, of course, has a whole range of instruments towards commercial banks that it would use - and they are very harsh instruments - when the recommendation from the Czech National Bank would not be accepted by those commercial banks. And if you look at the market, you can also see what happened when the Czech National Bank introduced stricter instruments, that it was no longer possible to borrow 90 percent of the value of the property, that the instruments were stricter. What happened? Just before the Czech National Bank introduced it, we can see a huge leap in the market when people said: We have one last chance before the strict limits are paid, to get our own housing, to reach a mortgage that we can no longer reach as middle class after the application of the limits. Thus, before the date announced by the Czech National Bank that this measure would be affected, there was, of course, a large increase in the number of closed loans. So the Czech National Bank, which wants to use these instruments for the stability of the financial sector, for the stability of the mortgage sector, has wavered the market by coming up with this regulation. The third thing, the Czech National Bank, the Governor in both the previous parliamentary term and today, will certainly argue that these instruments are being used in a number of other countries, but it must also be said that in many other states the situation on the mortgage market is completely different. In the Czech Republic, the share of mortgages on gross domestic product in 2008 was slightly over 20 percent. This is deeply below the European Union's average. In short, we do not have as much money on gross domestic product as the vast majority of European countries do, and it is clear that the risk of something happening to real estate is very much lower than in a number of other countries using those limits. Moreover, in a number of countries, they do not use all three limits at once. They're using one, two, combination. But the Czech National Bank, which does not have the need to have such tools in terms of international comparison, wants to have them in its hands, in its hands, three instruments and regulate them through all three. I really don't see this as optimal given what our mortgage market looks like. Also, when you look at the health of our banks, all the stress tests that are taking place internationally show that the Czech financial sector, Czech banks are very good compared to Western European banks and that they are healthy. So even for this reason, we need not worry that we need something like this to prevent any collapse of the banking sector in the Czech Republic. Also the share of the so-called non-executive loans on total client loans in the Czech Republic are long-term low and in recent years it has fallen. The last number I have dropped by 0.7 percentage points to 3.2 percent of the share of non-executive loans in total client loans. It's at least ten years from now. Likewise, when we look at the next comparison, the Czech National Bank often argues that if the economy gets into trouble, if real estate prices go down, a bubble goes down, the biggest problem will be people who are not high-income will have problems with repayment. Once again, when we compare it internationally, the poorer people, the socially weaker people in the Czech Republic, who have a mortgage, this share is 6%. Again, in the EU, the share is double. So, as far as the structure of who the Czech banks were lending to is concerned, we need not worry that they were lending some large volume of mortgage loans to the weakest social group in the population. [[17.40 hours]] So, of course, I agree that this is a law that touches the middle class. The fact that there will be more stringent limits means that people will not touch some high proportion of the mortgage to the price of the property, that they will be limited by their income, which means, of course, that we are pushing these people out of the possibility of getting their own housing, and we are opening up the mortgage market more to people who are buying real estate as another investment. They have real estate, they see real estate prices in Prague rising, they have enough money, they know that the price of money is low, so they borrow from the bank because they know that the prices of flats, their price will grow faster, and this is how they make money, which of course continues to complicate the situation for those people who don't have enough capital, normal families, starting couples, middle class - we simply close the door to her own housing, and all the more so we open doors for those who buy real estate as an investment and buy fifth, sixth, seventh, tenth, tenth apartment as you want. At the same time, I do not think that this is some kind of social measure that would protect the group of people who are at risk. Because what does a guy like that do when he comes to the bank and the bank doesn't give him an 80 percent mortgage, but only 70 percent or 60 percent? What's a man like that gonna do? He borrows from the bank, which is regulated, which has its risk management, examines the client's credit, decides whether to lend it or not. And to this person, let her risk management assess that he still has a chance to lend him that it is not such a big risk to him, so because of some regulatory measure by the CNB he will not be able to lend him only a part of it. What's the client gonna do? The client goes to a non-banking entity, he goes to borrow money somewhere else, and the non-banking entity, of course, can provide the money on much worse interest terms, under much worse contractual conditions. And of course, the risk of such a person falling into the execution that he finds himself on some edge will be greater than when he should only be borrowed from a standard bank that can manage even when the client gets into trouble. And if he communicates with her as a standard, they can bridge some bad times. Of course, for those non-bank entities, it's gonna be a lot worse for that client in trouble. So, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you - I don't know if my colleague Martínek has done this before me, if not, then I am making a motion to reject the law at first reading, because I simply do not want us to see a run-up of money and quantitative easing in the Czech Republic one day. And I do not wish to prevent the middle class from accessing mortgages and driving it out to some speculators and non-bankers where they will borrow for much worse money, and it can cause a much worse socio-economic situation. This law is not good, we do not need it and I beg you not to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u15	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. With a factual point, Mr Václav Votava is registered. And before the microphone comes, I'll read two apologies. The first is Mrs Jana Pastuchová, apologizing from 18:00 to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Marek Výborný today from 17.45 am to the end of today's meeting for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, unlike Mr Skopeček, even though I understand him, I will not vote for rejection. I will be happy to hear the debate, which will therefore be on the Committee on Budgets, in any case. However, I, as well as the last parliamentary term, have been a critic of this bill, particularly as regards regulation - so as not to say maybe brutal, but harsh, hard regulation of mortgage loans. And I was glad it fell under the table that day. And it must be said that it went through all the political parties that were represented in the House. Of course I understand, or I can understand the CNB's arguments. I wouldn't say or talk about raising powers. It sometimes needs to be increased if it has any meaning. However, in this case, in the case of mortgage loans, I don't think that's appropriate at all. Banks today have recommendations on how they should behave in the allocation of mortgages. I think it's perfectly sufficient that it stays that way and that it doesn't get directly as legal regulation. I think we're even making these banks look like the wrong people. Colleague Skopeček said: banks are healthy in the Czech Republic. And that's what it would be if it were. If it wasn't for fish, right? So banks are going through stress tests. I think the regulation of banks is good enough for us. We have adopted a law on consumer credit, which - I will just finish it, Mr Vice-President - clearly states how banks should proceed in the allocation of credit, what they should be checking out. [[Time!]] [[Time!]] [[I'm sorry, but time.]] So I take it completely as redundant, what's in the law as far as regulation is concerned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u17	I would ask that we observe the time for a factual remark. And that applies to everyone in this Chamber. Mr Patrik Nacher is here for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Governor, Madam Secretary, have a nice evening. I will also allow myself to make a few comments in the spirit of what we talked about in the Sub-Committee on Banking on this matter, and this will concern, in particular, that part of the powers in the area of mortgages. In the beginning, a few positive things. First of all, I'm considering the shift and the refinement of the conditions for applicants under the age of 35. Just as I understand the principle that it is prevention and that we need not talk about the situation that is at this point when we have the lowest unemployment, economic growth, pay and pensions, and so on, but that the situation will of course not always be here, and the situation may deteriorate. However, at the same time, I would like to raise a few questions here, especially for the Governor, in order to understand this somewhat better. Because for me, in some parts, I think it confuses itself as a cause. Firstly, the position of the Czech Republic in general for the long term even at this time. In our country, banks work conservatively. This was also the case before the adoption of the Consumer Credit Act on 1 December 2016 and it also works at this time. Let it be such proof, because we were one of the few countries that did not give a penny to the recovery of banks after the financial crisis in 2008. Furthermore, the profits of banks in the Czech Republic are record-breaking, they are much higher than that of their mothers, and that - and I am very much flattering here - even with the decline in income from bank charges. If I compare it to 2012, then the decline is an incredible six or seven billion, and even though these banks are healthy, they work, they have record profits. As has already been said, the default of mortgage clients is somewhere around 1.4 percent, so we are twice as good as the EU average. I don't know, maybe I think we're almost at our best from all over the EU. That's the context, let's say, of the bank's economics. The context of the CNB's relationship with banks in general, which was already mentioned by a colleague of Skopeček, so I will not delay it. We're talking about a cultivated environment, where even the bank's mere recommendation in its own interest, because it's a very regulated area, they follow. This means that at this point, I would like to ask the first question whether this recommendation is not enough, whether there are banks or financial institutions that go beyond the recommendation that the CNB has in this matter today. [[17.50 hours]] As far as the housing context is concerned, it needs to be underlined here as well. Firstly, in general, real estate prices go up faster in our country than in the rest of Europe. This is also due to the fact that it does not need to be built, the pressure of demand cannot satisfy supply. We're talking about a change in building law, that's legislation for a long time. At the same time, of course, interest is also rising. In fact, over the last two years, the Czech National Bank has raised it from that technical zero by, say, two percentage points. This means that costs are actually rising and the mortgages are tightening up at the same time. There was also the possibility of getting 100% mortgages, today we are at 80 percent, and now there are also other parameters - DTI, DSTI and so on. In other words, these mortgages often do not reach medium-income levels today, especially in large cities - it is extremely obvious in Prague - which is annoying. In my lectures on financial literacy, I say that the mortgage is one of the few areas or one of the few types of loans where I recommend to be in debt when I say it like that, because it's kind of an investment in itself, into itself, and into something that doesn't lose value and will not lose time. And at this point, we're getting to the point where, in fact, people who have above average income don't reach the mortgage. What the result is, one of the previous speakers has already said about it, that at a time when great tightening really threatens, what we are all warning against will actually happen. The mortgage and property housing are not for everyone, some simply have to live in rent or move often, have a different lifestyle and the like, however, those who want to have ownership and want to have a mortgage, so of course they closely monitor it. The moment there's a threat of tightening up, it'll speed up its decision to ask for a mortgage, and at that point, it'll really be those who can recruit from it in two in three years, when the interest rate will rise and they'll refinance, so they won't have it. So we can actually create a group of people who would apply for that mortgage in a year, two, three, and we can actually get them to ask for it sooner to avoid tightening up. To avoid delaying here, because there will certainly be a detailed debate in the second reading - that is to say, I will not support the rejection, but, on the contrary, I would like to discuss this in detail and propose an extension in order to discuss this not only in the budget but also in the economic committee. I'd have more of a question about the governor, if I can afford why, if you look at the reason message, we actually have all three parameters. Since all the three parameters, that means the solution of LTVD, DTI and DSTI, apart from the Czech Republic, only Slovakia from all the countries of the European Union should have three parameters combined with the Czech Republic with seven countries, which means six other countries, with the fact that only Slovakia has these three parameters. There are other methods in those other countries, e.g. limitation of the length of the mortgage loan, etc., other type of regulation. So I wanted to ask if it really is absolutely necessary to go into the three parameters and actually get to the strictest standards alongside Slovakia, despite all the parameters that I mentioned at the beginning. This means that we are countries with the smallest default, with the most conservative, you could say, banking, the most profitable, and an environment where even relatively well-earned income categories can no longer reach the mortgage. Thank you for the debate, thank you for the answers and I will look forward to a deeper discussion on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u19	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek is also enrolled in the debate. I'll read the apology. Mr Roman Onderka apologizes today from 15.30 pm to the end of the day for business reasons and tomorrow, that is Thursday 23. 1., from 9 to 12 hours for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to be as brief as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, which is not entirely fresh, because we have already discussed this in the last parliamentary term, we sometimes move between two extremes. I say mortgage is not a fundamental human right. I hope that no one will come up with a mortgage in inflation on proposals for constitutional rights, whether on water or on cash payments. And if there were any political pressure here - we remember it historically in the United States for President Clinton - if there was any political pressure on commercial banks and mortgage banks to put mortgages over a tolerable level of risk at any cost, I would be the first to sound alarms and be against it, because those banks have their risk management, they know their interest risks, they know their capital adequacy, and after all they have their responsible regulator to look after their health. The other extreme is an order that basically eliminates the discretion and the consideration of who provides the money, whether it is a risk or not. He's just gonna be ordered here by law that, as much as that client would seem a thousand times bonita, a thousand times trustworthy, he can't give him the mortgage by law, and that seems like the second extreme. As if those banks weren't careful enough, as if we felt that they weren't stable enough and that they didn't have their crisis management, they didn't have their credit risk departments, and as if they weren't sane. On the one hand, there is a client who, when applying for a mortgage, considers the degree of risk of a future borrower, on the other hand, is a creditor who considers the level of risk of his creditor. And I haven't had the slightest feeling in the last few years, and so let the Governor make a mistake that the behaviour of Czech banks in the area of mortgages might be too risky. What bothers me most about the design is the exception. I understand that she was led by good will, but just under political pressure that the government would make it harder for young families to access mortgages by such a proposal, so there's an exception that, until a certain age, the client, even though he should be judged as a risk, shouldn't be judged as a risky one by the banks. This is already a political decision on credit risks, and that is something we have an extremely bad experience with. This is what we remember from banking socialism, when, under political pressure, half-state banks just gave loans to someone and didn't give them to someone. And it wasn't just to consider the risk, it was simply on a political note. And we're putting that political directive directly into the bill? And who's gonna be there next? Blonds, Catholics? What nonsense is this? Either the client is bonita and trustworthy, or he's at risk. And just create a political distortion, that when I'm ten less, I'm not so risky than when I'm ten more, that's just a distortion that I don't think belongs to our retail system, and it bothers me immensely. And I don't think we should remove it so that we should be tough on the young ones, too. I think we should remove it so that we should not introduce this regulation that the government is proposing for anyone. [[18.00 hours]] And as for the other competences relating to non-traditional monetary policy, forgive me, maybe it's a year of birth. I grew up at a time when monetary financing, now called quantitative easing, was considered sin and unimaginable. Perhaps it is due to age, perhaps it is too conservative, but if the Chamber of Deputies and then the Senate approve these competencies to the Czech National Bank, then let us put it into law or in resolution that The Chamber of Deputies and the Government will resign from their role in the economic policy of the State. Because we will then place the Czech National Bank in the hands of such instruments that any fiscal policy instruments of the state that apply normal mechanisms will be completely marginal against the Czech National Bank's instruments. Then let us stop saying that we are doing economic policy, and let us entrust it to seven men appointed without any control by one man, and I say this with all due respect to the seven men. I am a person when you discuss back ten years, very loyal - actually more, fifteen years - a person very loyal to the independence of the Czech National Bank, to its competence. I defended her in 99 percent of the cases, but I'm just not gonna take my hand up on my conscience to give them these powers. Then let us forget that in elections the economic policy of the state is decided. No! Then it will be decided only at the Castle, when any president will appoint any member of the Bank Board. I'm fundamentally against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u21	Thank you. I assume that Mr Ferjenčík is reporting for the debate. So, with a factual remark, Mr. Mr. Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u22	Thank you very much. I want to respond to my previous speaker. Of course, I also do not think that mortgage or mortgage, that it is a human right that anyone who asks for it must get, that perhaps the state should motivate them to be provided - that the United States has already enjoyed, through the two state agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Clintonův's era, the mortgage crisis in the United States. However, fortunately we do not have such agencies in the Czech Republic and hopefully we will not. There's certainly no human right or any right to a mortgage. But the banks have their own managers, their own analysts, who can evaluate whether the client is bonita or not. And based on mature consideration, based on whether the client is able to make them money, or if he causes them to lose, he will, of course, grant the mortgage or not. We don't have banks that give mortgages like on a running belt without considering the client's risks. By this law, the Czech National Bank says that we have inadequate risk managers in banks, that they are unable to evaluate the client's credit and that central bankers must do it for them. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Ferjenčík will be speaking in the debate. And I'll read the apologies. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes today between 17.15 and 23.59 hours for reasons of work and Mr Tomáš Vymazal apologizes for the rest of today's day for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to first mention actually the thing that I see a little bit as a problem with this press that they... Actually, it contains two things that aren't very connected, and they're both actually going to have a huge impact. I fear that the debate on housing and mortgages will actually completely overshadow the debate on the role of the national bank in the free market of credit operations. I think that the concerns of the national mortgage market bank are quite justified in particular in relation to what happened, for example, in Ireland or in other countries during the economic crisis and a large decline. There is simply a decline in real estate prices by tens of percent. In Ireland it was in some - up to fifty to sixty percent in Dublin, and then there is a huge increase in people who are unable to repay original loans, or have no incentive to repay the original loans at all. And I think it's fair to admit that those banks that are under severe competitive pressure to sell the mortgages aren't entirely motivated to go into a crisis like this because they know that when they come, the state will eventually save them, because otherwise the entire banking sector would collapse. So I think those concerns are appropriate. And it is appropriate to discuss which measures are reasonable and which are not reasonable. Unlike President Kalousek, I think that the exception for young people is absolutely appropriate. It's because statistically, a person who's 35 and who's taking some salary or salary or 36 to be exact is less risky than a person who's 45 and who's taking exactly the same salary or salary. That means the moment the national... Statistically, of course. Of course, at the level of one client, it can be different, but like a whole age group. So when the national bank sets the criteria for the whole market, it is appropriate to take into account the statistical difference between the individual market participants. So that's where I think it's reasonable to differentiate. I think that actually the question that we should focus more on is what happens today that part of these mortgages or mortgage loans is normally being transferred to consumer credit. That means they're only giving a mortgage to a person at 80 percent, but he's taking a consumer credit at 10 percent, so the loan value criterion doesn't solve the problem of falling prices to reducing the ability to pay back. And maybe this problem here deserves a lot more attention than DTI and DSTI. And I see here a potential big weakness in the regulation. I recently bought a mortgage myself, and the first thing they offered me was a consumer credit that would help me cover the 10 or 20 percent that a person must have or have to fold on his own. So I certainly don't think it's a virtual problem, and it deserves more attention. The reason I'm going to vote to go back to processing is the second part. Those are the open market deals and the credit operations. I would like to ask the Governor if the law will actually allow a national bank to buy private company bonds, for example, to buy their claims, so that the national bank actually saves some corporation, which is significant for the economy as a whole, so that this will be justified by price stability. I think, and I agree with my colleague Kalousek on this, that the powers of the government and of the national bank on economic policy must be well balanced. Therefore, if I understand the extent of the CNB's expansion of powers in these areas, there is a risk that, for example, the presidential elections will become a collapsing ground where the country's fundamental economic direction will be addressed, and this can, in fact, threaten the very independence of the Czech National Bank to political power. Because if we accept this forceful extension of powers, then the presidency will be more motivated to take over with the impact on who will be on the Bank Board and what will or won't be doing. So here I see a relatively significant risk that deserves a very detailed debate, which, unfortunately, will be overshadowed by the debate on housing availability, and who is responsible for rising property prices. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] One last point - back to the mortgage market. It should be noted that the availability of mortgages is one of the factors that affects the price of real estate itself. In the Scandinavian world, it has happened in several countries that they have become ordinary mortgages for a period that, for example, exceeds human life, with the fact that in practice they only pay back the interest on the mortgage and maybe it has a mortgage for a hundred years, and this, of course, will cause a huge influx of capital on the real estate market, and that huge influx of capital will also cause property prices to rise. So, while we're going to expand the short-term number of people who can afford a mortgage and buy real estate, it's going to lead to a huge increase in real estate prices over the long term, to inflate the bubble. And we'll see what happens when the next slower one comes. Last time in Prague, real estate prices dropped by 20 percent when the crisis came. [[18.10 hours]] So I think this is a subject that deserves attention. I'd be very careful with the courts that everyone here pays well, so we don't have to deal with it, because it's gonna show up in a crisis, if the system is stable. Let us also bear in mind that this is not a zero-sum game, that how much money we put on the property market will also affect what prices will be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u25	Thank you. I did not want to interrupt the Member, but the noise in the Chamber is unbearable. Absolutely unbearable. I would ask mainly the Members on the left side of the hall if they could keep their voice down, and whoever wants to discuss anything, no matter what they do in the lobby. Thank you. I have two factual points here - Mr Munzar, Mr Václav Klaus, and then, if no one is to appear in the debate, I will give the floor to the Governor in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a point of fact to respond to my colleague Ferjenčík by means of you. Here we will be different, because I personally believe that in terms of assessing the risk of a client and the credit of a particular client, there must be done individually, there cannot be done by groups, because of course there can be a 30-year-old person who is more promising than 45-year-old, but at the same time he may be more bonita by someone who is 37 than maybe the 35-year-old. There's just no way to do it by group, where it's actually done individually. Therefore, commercial banks have their analyses to do this, so they assess the client's credit and therefore determine the risks they might want to avoid. But I will not forgive myself for saying that unfortunately, the votes of the Pirát, as well as the votes of the MEPs for YES, maybe we will be discussing here soon that clients are judged not by the bonita, but by the carbon footprint, which is a great tragedy in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u27	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, with a factual remark. Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared, also with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u28	I would like to respond by your means to Mr Ferjenčík, who defended here how the Czech National Bank is to evaluate young people and so on. Mr. Bachelor Ferjenčík has been building up here for us since he's been a more personal client. Please, do you really think that these commercial banks are complete idiots who don't value it, and must the CNB do it for them, or, more draconianly, Mr Ferjenčík? I don't think so!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, I still have Mr Ferjenčík's enrollment. I would really ask the Members on the left side of the hall, I say it again to calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna try to explain again what's going on in this dispute. The point is that the CNB and the government have proposed some kind of regulation. The National Budget Board made a fundamental point that this regulation should be less stringent for younger people, for statistical reasons, because there is a rational expectation that people under 36 years of age will increase income in the future more than people over 36 years of age who have the same salary or salary at that time. It's just a statistical fact. So precisely because these banks would like to treat younger people as less risky, there's a lower barrier to mortgage-giving to younger people in the law. I absolutely don't understand why somebody's fighting against allowing banks to evaluate less risky clients and give them a mortgage according to how they want it to be, that means that the law reflects reality more. Why is Mr. Klaus, the one who's the most worried about fighting for ordinary people, I don't get it at all. This is why it is suggested that regulation for loans to younger people be different than for others. Of course, at the level of mortgage lending, it will be on the bank to assess the individual client, and it goes without saying that even at the same salary or salary, there may be older people who at individual level will be less risky clients, but that is not what we are dealing with. We are dealing with regulation of the entire sector, that is, under what conditions age cohorts should be able to grant loans. And if really statistically younger people get paid more in the future, it's rational for them to get a mortgage under less stringent conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u31	President Stanjura wants to make a point of fact? He does not, so I have Mr Václav Klaus here with a factual remark and Mr Vojtěch Munzar as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u32	I would call, above all, for us to speak to the substance of the matter and not for those who say what sometimes, who defend whom. That's everyone's business, but when you talk like that, Mr. Ferjenčík, through you, maybe it's also unfortunate that men have higher incomes than women, so will you also defend when the CNB proposes that men be judged differently than women? [[towards the President]] Or even if the pirát had an exception, so that maybe every third pirate is an MP, so it is certainly much more bonita for the CNB to treat them differently? We can go on like this forever. You have no idea what's going on here. There is a dispute here that the Czech National Bank should not regard as commercial entities who are like bonitas. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u33	Mr Vojtěch Munzar and his factual point. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u34	Thank you. I, too, by means of you on behalf of my colleague Ferjenčík. This is not a struggle to make regulation as much as possible and to make it harder for young people. It's a fight for it, I said here in my speech that the greatest relief for young people will be if this power doesn't work out at all. Young people have the biggest problem - and that is what I said here - in that they today have a lack of savings on increasing participation and, at the same time, on the real estate acquisition tax. That's one of the biggest problems and we're not dealing with it here. We only deal with how to tighten up mortgages, how to increase the percentage of participation, how to tighten up the assessment of client credit. I think this debate is going backwards than it should be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u35	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík and his two minutes. Mr Bartoš will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u36	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I support the return of this proposal to recast, because I think it is too strict in some areas, I think it does not actually cover young people enough. But mainly because of the new powers of the national bank in the second part of the press. So we're not in a dispute about the attitude to the law as a whole, I think. However, at a time when we have a government majority of the KSČM, the CSSD and the YES movement, which has 108 votes here, and it seems to support the proposal, I think it is completely rational on our part to want at least young people not to be affected by the law. I think it's absolutely pointless to argue about it here, if we want younger people to have a place to live, too. At the same time, I will repeat, the law does not address individual clients, solves the whole tribe of clients as a whole, for example, about permitted exceptions. For example, the LTV criterion, which means what percentage of the property price can be lent by the bank, is, in my view, relatively rational protection of all clients from falling into the real estate market, which has already occurred in the past. It has come to a much larger extent abroad. Indeed, in this situation, we do not want the person who is forced to sell his apartment because of his loss of work, so that the proceeds from the sale do not even secure the repayment of the debts he has.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u37	Thank you. Mr Stanjura will be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u38	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't want the controversy to come down on whether or not young people should be relieved of regulation. Of course I do, but to everyone. That's it. That's the decoy to support it. Of course it's right, but it's not enough. Who among us would knowingly make it difficult for young people to have a position on the mortgage market? But that can't be enough. So if you're 37 or 38 or 39, and now I can go on, you're not such a good client anymore? And how do we know that? So wouldn't it be a solution if we're so worried about the banks as they do so badly that the governor and his institution would be the only one who would provide mortgages? That would be about 100% certain that everyone would return everything if we had one state bank, that would assess everything, and those stupid commercial banks that produce the problems would fall out of the dangerous process. I hope no one's gonna suggest it. That would really be an additional ad absurdum - what is proposed here. I would like to know the reasons why we are going to solve the problem. Is the banking sector's biggest problem of defaulting mortgage loans? Yes or no? Then I'll ask the governor when he's performing to tell me if the biggest problem in the banking sector is defaulting on mortgage loans. Yes or no. How many are there? Are these loans covered by property, or are there impregnable claims, big problems and losses? When we answer all these questions yes, yes, yes, a big problem there are impregnable debts, we have no bigger problem in the banking sector than mortgages, so let's talk about regulation. If memory doesn't deceive me, that part of the law was somehow adopted by the Treasury, but it wasn't really their idea. The Minister of Finance is not protesting this today, but according to my information, the Czech National Bank was the originator. When other groups write the law for themselves, many Members say: beware, beware, the one to whom it relates has prepared an amendment for you, the one to whom it relates has written the bill. Remember the debate about the construction law, who actually wrote it, prepared it, and what a problem it is - and rightly it is a problem. And here the Czech National Bank will write a law on the Czech National Bank and almost every critic is referred to as someone who should not be involved. Isn't it weird that the CNB is writing a bill for itself, about itself, about increasing its additional competence? I don't understand. Very often we hear it from the governor's mouth, and I'm glad to hear it, our banking and financial sector is healthy. And then when we read the justification for this bill, I have to ask - what does it pay? The first sentence is that our banking and financial sector is healthy and strong and will survive any shocks that would come to us from the outside, not from the inside? Or do we have such a big problem that we need to introduce new regulations and tighten the terms for the mortgage? I'll tell you my personal memory. I was the one who got a 100% mortgage - 100%. And I wasn't 36, I was older. Yes, the bank asked us to do a lot of research, yes, we've been wondering if we're gonna take that risk for a long time. But the governor and you who want to vote in favour of this would actually make it impossible for people who find themselves in a similar life situation to do so. You would disable the free debate between the bank and the client, namely a specific risk assessment on both sides, whether the person who borrows the money is eligible for compliance with his obligations, and at the same time the bank will assess whether the current or future situation of those clients is an acceptable risk for him to provide such a loan. So I don't really understand. Why are we even dealing with this? And I say, the understandable and proper relief for the young must not lead us away from the fact that it should be for everyone, or preferably not at all. The recommendations of the Czech National Bank apply in these months and years. Mr. Governor, isn't it? So I'd like to hear from you whether you have an evaluation of how commercial entities follow the regulator's recommendations. They don't give a shit? Are they moving on? What percentage do you think it is? And if they don't give a shit about it and follow the regulator's recommendations, and I don't blame them, they're right to be afraid of the regulator, and that's right, then why do we need to legalize it again? Preventive? Are we addressing the 2010 United States problem in the Czech Republic in 2020 - Lehman Brothers? What does that have to do with us in 2020? What does this have to do with the situation in the Czech Republic? The answer is very simple. Nothing at all. It is only an excuse and it is only an effort of the Czech National Bank, quite understandable, like any state institution to have more and more competences, to have more and more influence. Nothing else, nothing rational about it. I'm sure I'll support the motion to return or reject this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u39	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been mild friendly uncertainty here, not a dispute as to whether Mr Martínek has tabled a motion for a re-evaluation. In order for this uncertainty not to exist, I, like Mr Martínek, am putting forward a motion for a re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u41	Yes, I did. Mr Martínek has tabled a proposal to return this material for completion. Since I have no one in the debate, I will give the floor to Governor Rusnok in the debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u42	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the opportunity to respond at least to some of the complaints at the address of this amendment. I've spent a part of my life here. I always knew it was a mysterious place, and today it was confirmed to me again, because I had no idea what everything could be derived from this novel, for what this novel, by its co-author to the CNB, was responsible. Get to the point. Please, there's an extensive criticism that we're actually preparing for something that isn't. We don't have a problem with bad loans. I confirm at this point that we have no major problem with bad loans. It would also be weird in a country that is economically prosperous to have such a problem. But the logic of why you want to have some repertoire of some tools, basically some kind of risk management tools, if nothing's going on, is probably logic, like what we have a crisis management law for when there's not even a flood right now, there's no disaster or fires or anything like that. This is simply a logic that I am sorry to accept, because this legislation is, if possible, created in a normal, well-functioning country generally for a long time and creates some environment that is capable of responding to different situations, to the normal development, but also to the development that will not be normal, standard. And it's hard to pass the law when, God forbid, there's gonna be a worse time, there's gonna be a crisis, and then in a few days, it's hard to pass a law that allows a regulator or other authorities to respond in time. [[18.30 hours]] So I think it's misunderstood or some sort of deliberate misinterpretation. It's been said here by some of the previous speakers. In Ireland in 2008, they had just as great a bad credit situation as we do today. No mortgage money! None. Within two quarters, they had 25 percent. In two quarters! Because the situation can change dramatically. So we're preparing the law for that. Not that we're supposed to start regulating something here tomorrow. And that's another one of my generals, but I hope it's an important point. Please, nicely, if this law is adopted, which I still firmly hope will change something in the mortgage market, the current regulation settings in terms of our recommendations? Nothing's gonna change. We don't want the powers you speak of them, that we can't get enough of them, we don't want them to be regulated more strictly by banks now, God forbid we even restrict access for young families to housing. There's no such thing as the law. The law says that there may be other times, much worse than they are today, the financial market, in this case the credit market, in the way that we will not only have banks that are based in the Czech Republic, have these equity companies that we, as a local regulator, the home regulator, are able to achieve in a solid, efficient way, because we are also monitoring them from the point of view of caution, but there may well be situations that will turn into time and which we know from other countries that we will need to have a significant share of branches here. We branch foreign banks, if there is ING Bank N.V., a branch for the Czech Republic, we don't set them up capital, we don't regulate them from a cautious point of view. That's Dutch supervision because they have their capital base in Holland. We have no leverage other than some basic consumer protection, which is, of course, a soft in this case, and some minimal liquidity regulation. And that is quite normally possible, because we live in the European Union, where there is no obligation to have that bank in the form of a equity company domesticated in the country where the regulator is, and we are separate jurisdictions, so we simply cannot reach it. They can sell mortgages much more across borders in the future. These may be platforms that will sell it on the Internet, that's what's happening today in countries where it's more widespread, Scandinavia. We can't reach them again. So we want to have regulatory tools for the future here, too. It's not like these laws are written... I feel like we're fighting over what the executives are supposed to do, that's what we are in this case, and what the legal framework is supposed to look like. And I think it's good to have that legal framework so that in this case, it allows the regulator to react approximately equally effectively over time when the market is changing, which can be assumed. So to some questions, with permission from the performers. It's still in general. We are not hungry for any competence, or vice versa. So if you're voting here, we're not supposed to be the guardian of the so-called law. the financial stability that we now have in addition to monetary stability as a fundamental task in our mandate, so I will be the first to be happy. One. And secondly, we can withdraw this proposal. Surely the government will set up an institution, there are countries where it is outside the central bank, which take care of financial stability and implement the so-called "financial stability." macroprudential policy, and it's settled. But if, on the one hand, you want us to have the same laws approved by the same hands that we have to take care of financial stability, and then you don't want to give us adequate effective tools, that's not our opinion, that's the opinion of several IMF missions, that's the opinion of the European Systemic Risk Board, so we can't do the role we have under other laws. So please, let's try to hold on to the fact that we know what the left hand and the right hand are doing. So we're not after any other competences. We'll be happy to have fewer powers. Now there was, of course, why three instruments. That's just, as I'm saying, that's a set of tools that are available. This does not mean that at any moment we will use all three instruments at the same time. The regulator simply needs some flexibility, flexibility in assessing the current situation, whether one, two, three tools need to be used and how to calibrate them. It is hardly possible for the law and the Chamber of Deputies to do this. This, of course, is understandable, and finally, even those international organisations recommend that the wider range of instruments is ultimately, if it is correctly combined and calibrated, simply effective. And also many countries have this repertoire of instruments as wide. Of course, banks have their risky processes, risk-setting procedures, no doubt about it. And, of course, we're leaving the banks the crucial part. What we are asking here to be part of the law - it is possible to set some maximum limits, to set some ceilings. We will never judge individual or group matters, this must always be judged by the lending bank and no one doubts that. And it's also up to the banks to do these things, of course. Plus, the law, like our recommendations today, gives the banks 5% exemption, i.e. five percent of cases, volume, are not actually governed by any limits, or they can flexibly cover those specific cases that the legislation is never able to cover perfectly, because each case is unique in its own way, so they can just put five percent of those things in those exceptions and give 100 percent of the mortgage when it comes to it, they can easily exceed the limits they have given in terms of income indicators. Of course, each indicator responds to a different thing. LTV reacts primarily to the development of real estate prices, i.e. that the ratio between loans and real estate prices should be in some harmony. Of course, those indicators that look at income respond to the potential ability of mortgage recipients to pay off the mortgages better or worse. One more comment. As for the central bank's monetary policy instruments, I don't think there's room for that right now. It would be good for us to go over all the events that some here have spoken at second reading and especially in the Committee on Budgets. Please nicely, monetary policy certainly cannot become an instrument, it really has gone too far, even some policy here, that perhaps we will be saving some zombie companies here, and that will suit someone and not suit someone. First of all, there are some rules, Czech laws, European laws on economic state aid, etc., and secondly, of course, there are also rules on monetary financing, very strict, which, of course, prohibit central banks from making any expenditure that could be close to something in the form of public spending, to do it in government, under the administrator of public finances. So I think the concerns are really exaggerated. And I'd like us to clear up the details at the next hearing, if necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u43	Thank you. I have two factual points here, Mr Skopeček and Mr Munzar, and then with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Before I give my word, I'm sorry, I'll read three apologies. Mr Jiří Kohoutek apologizes today from 18.30 pm to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Karla Maříková today from 18.30 pm to the end of the day for health reasons and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová today from 18.30 pm to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u44	Thank you very much. I want to respond to the Governor's words, or ask him. In his argument, he said that he would have a new one, or that three instruments would be enacted, three types of mortgage regulation, doesn't mean that he would have to use all three, that it's always about the combination, so I'd like to ask him, as part of the recommendations that now work towards commercial banks, how many of these three instruments you want to legalize today, and which are dictated or recommended as a recommendation to those banks whether it's one, two or three. That's the first question. Second point. I completely misunderstood the logic of Ireland where you said that within two months, the share of loans in some failure had increased dramatically, as it would have helped them if at that moment they had established these limits, how it would have helped them to develop at that moment. That's not what it was about. And the third thing about financial stability. It seems here that the Czech National Bank has no tools to address financial stability, no tools towards banks. I mean, that's not true. Capital adequacy, a number of other instruments by which the Czech National Bank deals with the financial stability of the banking sector in the Czech Republic, so the Czech National Bank has many of them. And let's face it, since 2008, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the worldwide level of regulation available to supervisory authorities, and the Governor has rightly said that in many countries, two institutions are doing this so that one institution does not have the powers that the Czech National Bank wants today. [[Attention on time.]] That's what the Treasury and the Central Bank have. So how much did only the number of employees of the Czech National Bank increase in supervision since 2008? [[Thank you.]] I think it's going to be a pretty high number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u45	Again, I point out that the time set for a factual remark is two minutes. President Stanjura with priority rights in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u46	That's why I didn't take a factual comment. First, I want to apologize to my colleague Patrik Nacher, because I repeated the questions he asked, and it's just a pure coincidence, but it's fair to be heard. However, the questions came up twice, the governor didn't answer twice. I can read in his statement when he's actually saying that we're like in Ireland, that there's no problem, that that's the answer to the first question, how big the problem is in the mortgage market. I can read it like this, but we both asked how commercial banks are governed by the recommendations of the Czech National Bank today, and we didn't get an answer to that. I'm glad that the governor is here and that we have the opportunity to respond directly to each other because I think it's a quicker debate. Well, I'll try to comment, maybe ask about his performance. I think, Mr. Governor, that comparison with the natural disaster and crisis management just doesn't add up. I don't think it really fits. If someone here is defending the bill while saying "if you think that if you approve of the bill that something is going to change, then you're wrong," then we have to ask, if nothing changes, why do we really need it? Maybe future disasters, but I just don't believe it like that. The governor says, and he's right, he doesn't have to use all three of those indicators at the same time. Yes, they can. If I were to believe your words, I might understand that there are three indicators and that the Czech National Bank has the right to use two. Any two. You said so yourself, and I agree that at different moments, different parameters may seem important. Of course, we do not have as much information as the Governor personally and the Czech National Bank as an institution, but I would like to know how many foreign countries all three are used together. I don't know. So it's not like I had it written down and now he's testing you, Mr. Governor, and he wants to say that you said two, and I only know about one or the other. So there is also a big problem if all three were to be used at the same time, and there would also be restrictions on access to the mortgage market in our opinion, but maybe there are foreign cases where all three are paying at the same time, and then we can see what it did to the mortgage market in that particular country in some time series. So the governor said he didn't really want those powers. I like that. Then why are we discussing the bill of law where this new competence comes from? Undoubtedly, new regulation is a new competence for the regulator. I think that's how easy it is to explain what regulation is and whether it's authority, competence or not. Well, that doesn't really add up. The problem that the governor pointed out very correctly is the branches of the banks. That is what I think is something we should consider, and that is not an easy solution. I admit it. But are we supposed to believe that this bill problem, potential problem, potentially need to be said, the branch problem solves? It just doesn't feel right to me. Maybe so, but I don't see that yet. But the problem really exists because - that's what the governor is right about - the national regulator has limited or almost no powers in this. I don't know, maybe the governor responded to one of my colleagues, and I haven't heard all the performances, but you, I'd say, conspiracy theory, I don't think it's the subject of a serious debate. Now I don't think from your side, I think you've responded that someone has a completely conspiracy theory that the Czech National Bank could do, who it might help, zombie companies, and so on, shouldn't be the subject of our debate, because it's taking the debate somewhere else, and then we're not concentrating on the main issue. So I understand - and maybe the governor will correct me - from his performance that we don't have a problem in the mortgage market. We do not have a problem in the Czech Republic on the mortgage market. Probably when he didn't talk about it, maybe he forgot. I understand that these questions have gone a lot, so probably commercial banks stick to the regulator's recommendation. Then, of course, the question is, if we imagine that unfortunately I see most of it here, which I'm sorry, maybe we can argue that the amendment is not a good idea, so let's imagine that the power will be and the Czech National Bank will see that it's time for one, two or three indicators to somehow set up or - I really liked it, the verb, I'll take it away from you, Mr. Governor - to calibrate it. I really, really think that's a convenient verb. Is this calibration, setting up for new mortgage loans only? If so, then let's say statistically, out of the total volume of mortgage loans, how many are generated in one year to what is running. I don't know, and maybe I'd like to ask you for information about the average mortgage period, I really don't know. And taking into account the average mortgage time and perhaps the average mortgage amount, we can then quantify if we approach, or the regulator, what percentage in the overall mortgage market would be regulated by using these indicators, whether one, two or three, because this is also important in this debate - because what problem might arise? The fact that new, bad loans will be provided is certainly true, but there may also be a problem for various reasons that many of those who already have the mortgages will be unable to repay the mortgages. And that, I think, also happened in those countries that we talked about and that we were just reading about, fortunately, there were problems in the Czech Republic. [[Nesroz.]] But you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u47	Yes, I understand. I will ask the Members on the right hand side at the government table if they can keep their voice down and all the others who are discussing any matter in the Chamber, so please in the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I think it's right to debate it. If these instruments were already and would be used, and now I don't want to speculate whether one, two, or three, and how much, to what percentage of the mortgage market it would actually turn out and whether it would have any real significance at all. And the question is whether the regulator that proposes it is more concerned about the future. Because it's not a problem today, new mortgage loans, or people losing the ability to repay existing mortgage loans, because then I think the instruments must in any case be different, whether in the first or the second, or how you quantify it by a percentage, I know it's gross how much the problem could be with new loans or existing ones. However, I am returning to what many colleagues have said here. If, for example, the economic situation deteriorates from external causes, our commercial banks will logically respond to this. They have business risks. They're carrying them. So assuming that when commercial banks change economic conditions, they don't react to it, I don't think it's logical and it's not right. The first to react should be commercial banks, because they will take risks. And if at the same time we say that they work well and work well, let's leave them trusting and believe that they first respond to such a situation because it's in their own personal interest. Let's just say that. It's not charity. That's no good deed from them. This is in their real business and business interest to respond, possibly reduce the amount of credit to the value of the property, or tighten the demands on applicants for their monthly income, total debt, nine annual income and everything we can think of. And then I think it would be right. The debate will undoubtedly continue. So far, the Governor has not convinced us with his arguments that the Czech Republic needs it or that the banking sector needs it. But we are looking forward to the next debate, and we will certainly continue to do so in particular on the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u49	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u50	Have a nice evening. I will repeat the question once more and explain the reason and refer to what the governor was talking about. The question was whether the banks are now governed by the mere, in quotation marks, recommendations. And the question is that at the moment that the situation here today is what I described, I will not repeat it, that means the rate of default is the lowest, the profits of banks are the highest, they lend conservatively, they are actually doing well, all economic indicators are positive, and yet they follow the recommendation. So there's some assumption that if there was a crisis, that they would follow the recommendation twice in that logic, if they follow it even when the economy actually says, there's no need to follow everything, because we have a big pillow. That's why he was going to ask if the banks are running it today. And the second reason I indicated before. It's very important because we need to realize what's going on behind these walls. We're going to discuss something here. There's a reality. But then the question is, what does it look like on the outside? I understand what the governor was talking about. It's already been limited by the banks in some way these days. I'm being approached from time to time by a client whose mortgage wasn't approved because he couldn't reach it. But now the question is, what's it gonna be like on the outside? And I'm saying that theoretically, it may threaten to be described as tightening up, so those people who wouldn't ask for the mortgage now, they're going to ask for it now to be more subtle for them, even if you don't tighten it up, if we understand each other. Because something else is a recommendation to outsiders, and something else is some kind of authority given by law. For those clients on the outside, let's apply for the mortgage now. [[Attention on time.]] And that's when the people who aren't supposed to be able to reach the mortgage are going to be there under normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u51	Thank you. No one's logged in. The governor has asked for the floor. I'll give it to him. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. We have five minutes to go. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u52	Thank you. I'm sorry. Just very briefly. As regards the questions where I have not answered, yes, as regards the implementation of the recommendations, the banks are mostly implementing them. But we always have a bank from time to time, especially from bigger players who just don't meet them for a certain period of time, we have certain parameters that aren't being met. So it's not a hundred percent performance. It's just more or less filled. But that's when we have the leverage. Of course, when we don't have them, they'll be even weaker as recommendations. And as far as tightening up is concerned, there's no reason to make it sound like tightening up, because, as I said, there's nothing to change from a material point of view for the moment, no matter what happens with the law, even if the law is passed, it's obvious that the exception for younger applicants will apply, whereas today the exception is not actually in those recommendations. So there's no reason to believe that people should think of it as some kind of tightening up compared to the current state of affairs. I think that's probably enough at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u53	Thank you. With factual remarks, two Members - Mr Kalousek and Mr Munzar - are registered. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I shall read one apology. Mrs Lenka Dražilová apologizes for today's meeting from 18.20 to the end of the day. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom! If there's no peace, we won't continue. I know it's always very difficult to keep an eye out around 7:00, but let's just hang on for the next four minutes. Please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please understand. Fear sometimes has big eyes. We panicked that one of the government MPs might propose a meeting and a vote after 19 o'clock. So we can recover from this panic, please, a five-minute recess at the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-010-018.u55	Thank you. I am interrupting this point and ending today's meeting day. We'll continue tomorrow with the answers to the written interpelations. Have a good evening.
