ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended by Act No. 129/2020 Coll. The House Press 833/ - Shortened Act Before discussing the Government Bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended by Act No. 129/2020 Sb., House press 833, shortened negotiations, we would be under § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening up to this general debate. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. We will take the vote. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended by Act No. 129/2020 Coll., House Press 833, in a short hearing." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 73, registered 99, for 88, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. [[20.00 hours]] We will therefore proceed to discuss this point. The translated proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the second amendment to the State Budget Act for 2020. The first amendment to the State Budget Act was approved on 24 March 2020 in an estimate of a decline in real GDP of 5,1%. I am now presenting a second amendment that addresses the decline of the economy by 5.6 percent. The second amendment ensures an increase in the monthly payment of the State for one state insured person by 22 billion. (?) and stabilises health care in the Czech Republic, which, especially at this time of crisis, turns out to be a crucial priority. At the same time, the government budget reserve is increased, which serves as a financial resource at this time for the vast majority of measures by which the Czech Republic offsets the negative economic effects of the epidemic. On the revenue side of the state budget, the impact of the compensation bonus paid to the Ministry of Finance is reflected in particular. In this amendment, no reduction in expenditure is proposed in the budget chapters, taking into account the time aspect. The Government has decided to analyse the drawing of claims on unused expenditure, including the expected savings in reducing the operation of the authorities, according to the cash flow as of 30 April 2020. Any reduction in expenditure shall be made in the following months in its competence with a special purpose purpose for further crisis measures. After this amendment, the state budget will count on a total revenue of 1 428.2 billion. CZK, which is another decline of 60.1 billion. CZK 1,728,2 billion. Kroner, that's an increase of 39.9 billion. Crowns. I propose a state budget deficit of 300 billion. Crowns. I do not see an increase in deficit as a risk because our economy is also public budgets, but also monetary policy in good shape, which will make this situation possible as one of the first EU countries. Very few of the world's economies have such a favorable constellation to manage. The World Trade Forum even called the macroeconomic condition of the Czech Republic the best in the world. The mix of very low unemployment rates, low government debt and its surplus management, its own monetary policy and the extremely healthy banking sector are directly destined to successfully overcome the current situation. I would like to conclude by asking you to support this government proposal, which is essential for further developments in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u3	Good evening, honourable Members, thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová for the introductory words. I note that the Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 833/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Madam President Miloslava Vostrá, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the motion for a resolution as adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting. The Chamber of Deputies proposes to the Chamber of Deputies I. to hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations no later than 24 hours on 22 April 2020; IV. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's proposal amending Act No. 355/2019 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2020, as amended by Act No. 129/2020 Coll., House Press 833, should give its consent as amended by the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies; V. authorised the Committee's rapporteur to introduce you to this resolution and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. I would like to conclude by saying that the Committee on Budgets has not discussed any amendment to this draft amendment to the State Budget Act. None were administered at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we will decide whether to hold a general debate by voting number 74, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of having a general and detailed debate. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 74 of the present 100 for 75, against no one. We will therefore hold both debates. And how we will decide, on a proposal from our colleague Kubíček, who is reporting for the debate, to present us with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I propose a shortening of the time that the debate for Members will be held for five minutes in both general and detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u7	Thank you. We will decide in the vote number 75, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 75 of the 99 present for 58, against 6. The motion was accepted. We will therefore hold a debate according to this decision. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, will be prepared by Věra Kovářová, who will present the club's opinion. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, although this concerns the state budget, because part of the debate was taken up during the debate on the law on budgetary responsibility. So only on points. I don't blame the government for a fall in income, it's caused by a crisis, it's not the government's fault. I do not blame the government for the expenditure on intervention going into an economy to mitigate the impact of the crisis, which is essential. I could discuss their size and efficiency, but they're just necessary. So that's two things in that balance sheet on both the revenue and expenditure side that I'd be willing to support. But there are other things in that balance sheet. There is, above all, a reflection of the government's six-year budgetary policy, which was not responsible, which reduced the state budget's resilience, where mandatorial spending grew faster than revenue from very good economic development, and where spending priorities, when I say this in a very modest way, were much more focused on electoral preferences than on the efficiency of public spending, they were simply bribes to voters. Even in good times, the government was handing out money that it didn't have on priorities that were wrong. These, of course, are further part of this budget, and we cannot therefore support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u9	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Václav Klaus will be ready. I hope it's quiet. My colleague, before I give you my word, if anyone is discussing another subject, please, in the lobby. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let me give the STAN's opinion on the proposal that the deficit will be CZK 300 billion. As has already been said, the blackout that should be, the income loss, which should be 140 billion, will be due to the effects of the coronavirus crisis. The proposal shows us that CZK 120 billion should go to the start of the economy or to the support of health insurance companies, which is 2% of last year's GDP. If we look at how it works abroad, Germany plans to spend 5% of GDP on stimulating the economy. And here I have to agree with my colleague Kalousek, the government was irresponsible at a time of growth when deficits arose, whereas Germany will pay for the stimulus of the economy from the surpluses of past years. So if we borrowed CZK 300 billion, the debt to GDP would be 40%, which is, of course, acceptable. But let us rather follow Germany's example. If we pumped as much as Germany into the economy, it would require another 250 billion crowns. Then the deficit would be 430 billion, which would still be 43 percent of GDP. I think the 120 billion is headed in the right direction. These are quick measures to support those who have been legally affected by the loss of either income or closed production and so on. In order to kick the economy into great growth, I think that 300 billion will certainly not be enough, and I think the Minister will come to the House with a higher deficit. The history of crises shows us that three factors matter to cope with the crisis. Firstly, it is the structure of industry - and here we have industry dependent on human work. Secondly, it is the structure of the corporate sector - and here we are also not very strong, because we have very few large companies that have sufficient reserves. Thus, a third factor could help us to support the economy and start-up, and that is the effectiveness of fiscal stimulus. So, as the government sounds, let's invest in growth. And I think, and I must agree, that the low debt can also be used. I must say that the Czech Government is trying to take steps to ensure that the impacts on the economy are not so great. Of course, we agree with these steps, we supported the government's proposals. However, we must also state that some steps have been chaotic, bureaucratic, slow, and often so far have not solved the most important and greatest problem of the economy, and that is a lack of liquidity. It has so far been shown that a number of CFIs will not reach money, but I hope this will change by adopting some amendments in the field of compensation bonus. Within the framework of Antivirus, i.e. cursarbeit, money is paid back and with a large participation of employers. At fixed costs, it doesn't seem to contribute, and the company hasn't seen much money from the COVID I and COVID II program. That is why it is really necessary that we quickly and now start the growth of investment in our economy. What sounded from the Prime Minister's mouth was that we were going to build highways and dams for 200 billion, so I don't think that's quite the right solution. Highway, yes, but only to a certain extent. I mean, what could quickly help our economy, which could start our economy, could be quick aid to smaller investments. Minister Havlíček said it would be important to support investment, especially those investments that are prepared. And whoever has the investment prepared are municipalities and cities. So let's go back to restoring the hungry wall project, the hungry walls for the regions. This is important because it will be possible to employ people there and, at the same time, investment will be most useful. We need to help small and medium-sized companies. The municipalities have prepared with building permit, even competing, a number of projects. We handed over a list to the Prime Minister, which clearly showed how many projects are being prepared for kindergarten and elementary school. It could also be invested in pavements. Look at the overhang on the SFDI, huge overhang. Have the government react quickly and let the money in there, into projects that remain a footnote. To high-speed internet, to build affordable housing and so on. I think that if the government goes in this direction, it will help regions, small firms, craftsmen, and help to move the economy across the Czech Republic. On behalf of STAN, I have to say that the proposal for a deficit of 300 billion will support our club, but I want to say today for the last time. And that's why - for the last time today. [[Secretary Schiller responds off the microphone.]] For the last time today. I see the Minister is as surprised as the last time we supported the $200 million deficit. But we will expect from the government - that you have spoken, Madam Secretary about cuts, all right, those no one wants very much in some areas. But at least you could start talking about savings. You said a few billion savings wouldn't save anyone. In a way, you're right, but the effort is evaluated. We will expect to support the government, we will expect the government to come in addition to the measures to respond quickly to the serious economic situation, that the government will come up with what it is time to say - how it will kick the investment economy. And I think the measures could be divided into three groups. We need to respond quickly, an operational solution. Then the government should have a medium-term strategy and then in the long run. Now, of course, there are still running programs such as COVID, Antivirus and 25. But it is still possible to add the reallocation of funds to the grant titles, which are ready for implementation, which ended with a footnote. If you put money in there, companies can immediately join the municipalities and cities and they can start building, they can employ craftsmen, plumbers, masons, and I don't know who everything is. Furthermore, it would be good, and I think it has also been said here, to re-allocate the European Union's money to those projects that are needed - let's say they are kindergartens, primary schools - from those European subsidy degrees. In addition, it is possible to put social housing on community centres. Of course also on the roads of second and third classes, firehouses, equipment units and so on. There's a lot of programs to invest in. I can give you our background here, which I'm sure would help you make that decision. Within the government's budgetary reserve, it would be good to allocate at least CZK 10 billion to the projects that I mentioned, to the subsidy titles at various ministries, be it the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment. They're not highways, but they could be highways to prosperity in the regions. [[20.20 hours]] Furthermore, we would like the government to identify long-term supporting sectors of the economy that benefit from higher added value, such as nanotechnology, biotechnology, Industry 4.0, and subsequently support these sectors in order to revive the Czech economy for the duration of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of what I have mentioned here, we have prepared a motion for an accompanying resolution, where we will call on the government to prepare solutions both from an operational point of view, a rapid response, a medium-term perspective, and also from a long-term perspective. If the government puts forward such proposals and implement them, then we can consider that if CZK 250 billion were to be poured into investment, the deficit would increase even further, then perhaps we would also consider a further increase in the state budget deficit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now with the priority right of Tomio Okamura and then prepared Václav Klaus follows. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a government proposal on the debt of citizens of the Czech Republic for another 100 billion crowns and the deficit is expected to rise to the astronomical 300 billion crowns this year. The SPD movement accepts that the resolution of the pandemic of coronavirus and its consequences requires a deepening of state debt, but we also require responsible analysis and responsible management from the government. If the government does not cut spending on inadaptable, solar barons, inclusions, etc., the SPD will not support an increase in the state's debt by 100 billion required by the government. Nonsensical expenditures in the budget must be cut. And I'll be specific about what the SPD means. These expenses are, for example, expenditures. payments to solar barons, purchases of expansionary U.S. helicopters for the military, rife state bureaucracy, inclusion in education, payments to political nonprofits. We have no problem with nonprofits that take care of old people, needy people, disabled people, children, but those political nonprofits with a political agenda, there is a need to cut all public support. These are those who promote gender, multi-culty, the European Union, and this brings nothing, especially in times of need. Furthermore, we want unaddressed social benefits to be cut off inadaptable - this amendment to the law has been here for a year and the government is still putting it off, etc. And all this money - and I must say that the sum is well above CZK 100 billion, and it is precisely the money that the government is asking to increase citizens' debt. And we say yes, let's move money on investment and to the needy and decent citizens, but the money is in the budget! All the government has to do is cut the money they're paying for the useless stuff and move it. But the government doesn't want to do it, they'd rather be in debt. Members of the SPD have supported all proposals to extend aid to civil society, employees, citizens and companies in the recent clearance of the deficit to 200 billion. We have also tabled our own amendments in this context. The fact that, thanks to the proposals and pressure of the SPD, a number of positive aids have been accepted is good, but overall, government support is lax, inadequate, and there is confusion, even in comparison with other states that are affected by the emergency situation now. Well, the government is now asking for a further $100 billion more debt for less than a month. And I will make it clear here that if the government YES, the ČSSD and the KSČM in the House does not present concrete proposals for cuts in the expenditure part of the budget as I have said about it, then this step to further indebting the state by 100 billion votes will not be supported by our Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u13	Thank you, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamur. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u14	Hello. I would also like to express the position of the Tricolore movement on government economic measures. I've been stalling to perform here at those individual points that were about 60, which also suggests something about how you spout these laws that slowly even those computers can't write it because of unnecessaryness. Because in the end, the government's proposal has always been voted out by a government majority, although, in my opinion, that argument has often been very accurate, factual and concrete here today. There was also the uselessness of the Senate, which actually delayed the procedure, and here he forced us all once again to question what had already been discussed, and for this reason I also abstained from various minor improvements and trumps that he would propose 26,000, the other 27 and the 27,5 and so on, what political competition is doing here. And I didn't want to delay, either, because there were such important points here after midnight that, for example, there were no elections in Teplice, which reminded me a little bit of the movie Burns, my doll, when they didn't have the raffle, so what's the point of voting, there were no elections. Or a senseless regulation of a nonsense law on real estate agencies that we weren't supposed to accept at all, then he kind of shifted around in the sweat of his face after midnight. So I would allow myself to assess the economic measures of the government in this difficult crisis. I'm not going to evaluate the complexity and slowness of these procedures. For that, there are thousands of experts who criticize it. The situation isn't easy, I understand. But when I say it in a matter of fact, you're just printing money as a Mugabe dictator in Zimbabwe. This is the only measure you are taking in this crisis, and you pretend that nothing is going on, that you will maintain the welfare state, that all the oversizes of what this state is lifring money into are fine, and you will keep it. When I'm talking about a hard-ass investigation, like the state and its organs, you're looking at me specifically as a Marťan. So you print out a trillion or trillion crowns, and nothing. I gotta tell you, this is a hell of a way to go, and you can't even make it to the election. Unless, as Chairman Hamáček now has that red sweater, the popularity is growing, so that they're early, you might be able to hold out. You leave people at home, increase jumping support, yesterday's infirmary or the sick children, so for the first time in my life in the House, I have to agree with Mr. Bláha, what he said here. But the only hope of healing society is to let and support it viable, to get back to work, to cut off all the unnecessary expenses that we could afford in times of luxury and well-being. So to sum up how I supported the government's measures and defend them, here against the various committees of inquiry that are already preparing for you, in the health area, as I am quite skeptical now about the plan to release those measures, we will be talking about this in a moment at the point of release of the measures, so from the point of view of these economic measures that you are adding, I think they are very bad in the long term and very devastating for the Czech Republic, and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u15	I thank Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we quite understand why the deficit is so high. After all, when the first increase to 200 billion was being discussed, we proposed more money in particular to support the smallest tradesmen. For this reason, the final vote for us will be how the government stands up to our press proposals on a compensatory bonus, if the government really supports those endangered groups, if it turns out that they are interested in supporting small businessmen, if they are interested in compensating the rents and other fixed costs of the companies that the state has closed, if the government is interested in supporting the contractors who have paid the levy, if the government supports the people who were also involved in secondary activities, but now they have lost a substantial part of their income. [[20.30 hours]] There are a number of amendments that aim primarily at the smallest and most threatened, and we think that these are the people that the state should support in this difficult time. And we think that for a number of groups here, the support has been quite insufficient so far, and based on how the government stands up to these proposals, we're going to stand up to the proposal to increase the debt because we don't want to give a blank check to the government to support only the biggest corporations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u17	Thank you, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, now Mr Jan Skopeček, entered into the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u18	Thank you very much. I will also be very brief, because we have already discussed fiscal policy and budgetary policy for a long time today when we discuss the budgetary responsibility law. My main reservation to the current amendment to the State Budget Act today is actually very similar, similar to the reservation that I presented here at the first amendment to the State Budget for this year, namely that neither in the first nor in the current amendment to the Act do I see at least an elementary effort, a symbolic effort to find any savings, nor are the most populous expenditures that this government has approved. It is clear that every company, every businessman, every family at this time rethinks spending and asks whether the expenditures it has planned at the beginning of the year are still of equal priority in the context of the crisis today, or whether there is by chance any expenditure that needs to be paid as more important, or whether it is possible to postpone any expenditure for the next years, once it is better economically. In doing so, I want to assure that no one is forcing the government to save on investment today, nobody, not even the opposition, is forcing the government to save on aid to companies affected by the corona crisis, but I think we can all agree that the size of the state's operating expenditure, the budget which is, without a doubt, at least elementary savings, makes it possible, and I am very sorry that the government, Madam Secretary, has resigned to an absolute degree. The state budget is undoubtedly a reflection of economic policy. I understand that in the first, short phase of the coronavirus crisis, it is about the fact that the budget reflects some direct payments, direct assistance to affected companies, people affected, that the fiscal impulse and government aid is on the spending side of the budget, as we economists say, to support the demand side of our economy. However, I think and believe that the government must come up with a different strategy over the medium to long term, a more sophisticated strategy, and abandon those direct payments to entrepreneurs and people, but rather focus on the supply side of the economy, that is, taxes rather reduce, make that fiscal impulse not only through larger spending, but mainly through lower taxes, lower mandatory contributions. We keep reminding ourselves of this, we have some of the highest employer's contributions for our employees, we are increasing artificially the workforce, which will be reflected, among other things, in times of crisis by having more unemployment than we could have if the employer's contributions for employees were at least as low as they are on average within the developed OECD countries. We're really on record there. It is always said that any crisis is also an opportunity to do something positive about it in the future, bounce off qualitatively somewhere forward. I partly agree with that. But this would require the government in the coming months to find the courage to deregulate our over-regulated economy in order to eliminate as much subsidies and subsidies as possible that our economy is being watered down and to have the courage to rethink such things as the European Union's Green Climate Agreement, which continues to burden our industrial businesses, the automotive industry and other sectors that are important to our economy. It wants to deregulate, simplify taxes, abolish the authorities we don't need, and the money saved would certainly serve to prevent public deficits from being as high as planned by the Secretary of Finance. Thank you for your attention. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u19	Thank you, and now, with priority right, Mr Marian Jurečka, will prepare Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u20	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, good evening. I for KDU-ČSL since the beginning of this crisis, the moment we knew it would cost us a lot of money, so we say that whoever quickly gives twice gives. And since we have been proposing measures here for the last four weeks aimed at helping households within the infirmary, they aim at helping companies, businessmen, whether it be the support of the cursarbeit, whether it be the eseróčka, people for deals, whether it be the Pendlers and so on, it is logical that it is also associated with the expenditure of the state budget. So we will support this increase in the deficit by another CZK 100 billion, but I must say that we are missing, really, a certain government strategy at this point in time to say that at this point we are aiming at these particular critical points, but we are also prepared to do some inventory of what is and is not necessary. It doesn't have to be cuts or blunt cuts, whether it's called what the term is, but maybe the questions, if the government is able to make some parametric adjustment to inclusion, if it's able to save as part of digitalisation, we know that digitalization is logically due to the legislative changes we've made, it's supposed to join the state administration, and so on, and so on and so forth. So there are things that would be good to be able to balance out and how we can say where we can be more efficient, and above all, I'd like to see the help that we're all talking about here and we're also trying to support it, we're voting for it to just be really, really faster, because that's what we're dealing with most today, what we're getting feedback from entrepreneurs today. So so briefly and very quickly the position behind KDU-ČSL. And we also see the importance of being helpful and fast now, because of course there is a situation in the financial market, where there is still good demand for Czech bonds, which we can issue under very good conditions with low interest rates, which may just be in the next few months, such a situation may not be. So much for us, for KDU-ČSL. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u21	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka, now Mr Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to briefly recapitulate the position behind the SPD movement. I have to start by saying that I'm probably a very bad analyst now, because when the state budget deficit went up here, I don't know how long it was, a week or how many, or two days or three weeks ago, so I told the secretary that I was hoping that you wouldn't stand here in June and we wouldn't increase it by 100 billion. And I'm a bad analyst because three weeks have passed, and we're already standing here increasing the state budget deficit by 100 billion. It scares me a little bit, because I feel - and now I'm going to try to soften it up and say it very diplomatically - that there's a little bit of competence for the Treasury to calculate the real deficit that it's really going to be. We already know how long the emergency situation will be, we probably know how much money will go into which program, we know what will happen, and I don't think the Ministry of Finance should come here twice, three times, and raise to four hundred, four hundred fifty and so on, that it should come up with just one option that will be final and final. We, on behalf of the SPD, have to say that we do not mind the state budget deficit, we want to support the Czech economy, Czech companies, Czech entrepreneurs, however, on the other hand we would have waited, and now I will be very thoroughly and consistently avoiding the words of cuts - we do not want cuts, but we want savings. Savings in some of the things that my colleague Tomio Okamura has already recapitulated here, because at least the effort would be visible in that government, that simply, as the state budget deficit increases on the one hand, he will try to save and save some of the expenditure that is not necessarily necessary in 2021, and there is indeed a lot of such spending. [[20.40 hours]] I also think that this situation should serve the Ministry of Finance to rethink some expenditures over the long term. Because I think that some expenditures are not really necessary, they are not necessarily necessary even in the long term. And I think it is a great stepping stone, this situation, in order for the Ministry of Finance to carry out such a feedback analysis and try to develop budgets for the Czech Republic in a much more gentle and economical manner. So, as I said, we would like to support this deficit, but by not even seeing the government's efforts to save, we will not support the deficit, and we will abstain from this vote. On the one hand, we would like to put money into the economy, on the other hand, we can see that it is only about increasing the deficit and it is not about any revision on the other hand, on the revenue side, on the expenditure side of the budget. For this reason, the SPD will abstain from voting under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u23	Thank you. Another priority right, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, so far the last one entered into the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u24	Many have said my previous speakers, I will not repeat it completely. The main reason why we can't support the bill, and we'll also be delayed, is because we don't have the crystal ball that I think the secretary had, so she looks at it and says, not 200, but 300. It's not important at this point, but we don't really know how that number came into being. We could have waited for the dates for April, May, June. At the beginning of July, we could have the results of the budget for the first half. We could already have the results of these extraordinary aids, e.g. Businessmen, because I hope that by then everything will be open and that will be the end of the compensation bonus. And we could rationally debate how much this number will actually be, for what reasons we, as Parliament of the Czech Republic, have caused by our decision, where we have complied with the government in a proposal where we have not. I understand that, and I look forward to having that debate. And he has to come. Because it must be preceded by a debate on the next year's budget. It's a completely useless bill today! I don't understand why we're discussing him here after three weeks. That's the main reason. That we're not capable of competently assessing whether the number is right or wrong. That means, I say quite frankly, we have great doubts, but we do not have enough data and data to say: the Minister is right or the Minister is wrong. Why are we discussing it? If the secretary comes up on the microphone now and says it's the last draft of the state budget this year, I'd understand. But I don't think she can come because she would promise something that she can't promise. So, Madam Secretary, why three weeks later? When are we gonna be here? In a variable week, renegotiate the novel? Or the next meeting? And at the next meeting? Is that gonna be a standard point? Then I suggest we put in the Rules of Procedure 'point 1 for each meeting is a change in the state budget', so we don't have to argue when we start and how we proceed. That's what I blame the proposal for not really having a normal debate about it. When we're debating the state budget, chapter by chapter, we say, we see it differently, here money can be saved, here it could be invested elsewhere - we can't do that today. So why do we have the budget anyway? To make another point that we have 30 laws in a legislative emergency? I didn't get the reason. I don't think if we didn't accept the amendment, it would stop any of the support programs we approved. He won't stop. Or do you know what the tax revenue for May will be? We really don't know. The last figures we had as members of the Budget Committee were on 10 April. It's a decade, I think it's reasonable, we don't need it every day. But according to our estimates and our economic experts, the impact won't come soon in April. It'll be in the next few months. It's because those closed establishments aren't gonna produce any revenue. So it's hard to have a serious debate about it. So, Madam Secretary, as a simple reason - why are we discussing this? Apart from the fact that you want to have a notch on your butt that you pushed through the Chamber of Deputies another bill? I don't understand! Because we really can't have a normal political debate like the budget. We either agree there, or we disagree. That's where we have political priorities. But aside from the fact that I really think it's from that crystal ball because I don't know what new data came in three or four weeks -- I think we discussed it on March 24th, the draft state budget, right? The twenty-fourth. Nothing happened to me, we're no smarter than the development of tax revenues and other revenue from the state budget. But what scared me the most, what I've heard repeatedly from the secretary, is that he won't actually find one crown of unnecessary expenses. Madam Secretary says he won't look for it, there's no reason. And then he argues completely falsely and completely unfairly. And he asks, these rhetorical questions, "Do any of you want to cut pensions?" Then I'll answer you, "No, Madam Secretary! You don't have to use this argument! Not at all! Done! Nobody's suggesting it! You don't have to fight it! Does any of you want to reduce the state's investment? No, Madam Secretary, it's done! You don't have to fight for it, that's the consensus in the Chamber of Deputies. Don't any of you support the measures you voted for today, yesterday, the day before yesterday? No, Madam Secretary! So who are you fighting, what are you fighting for, and why do we have it here? You're asking us to vote, okay, I have a $300 billion deficit. [[unintelligible]] We don't know why, we don't know when the next time and where it's gonna stop. I'm not gonna propose a budget like cancel the fare discounts. [[unintelligible]] No need. They won't draw. Nobody goes anywhere. That's settled. We won't argue about that either. That's just settled. I think the fare drop for all types of public transport is obvious. So let's not talk about that. Let's talk about other things. Let's talk about the bureaucracy! We will soon have a point where we will ask Minister Havlíček here about his famous programs COVID I and COVID II, and I would say that we should frame this as an example of Czech bureaucracy! How can you not do that? But we're still inventing new stamps. You or your colleagues in the government didn't propose to cancel one stamp in that time! You didn't propose to cancel a single form from those who were paying before the crisis started, so that we could understand each other. None of it came up! It's not normal. That's really not normal. And don't tell us your arguments: I don't want to cut 150 billion here. Nobody's asking you to do that! Such a popular political pirouette - the opponent did not say so, but I will say more strongly that I am against it. So if you have legitimate concerns about what the opposition will support, then say what you think the opposition will not support. That's about the 30th law in a legislative emergency. Yes, we didn't support some of them, the worst. Some of them did not end up, which is a good thing, but the total majority of those laws were supported by the opposition as a whole. Although her amendments did not go through, which the opposition believes would improve the proposals. And we weren't as proud as you. Although it wasn't our way, we supported it. We often said 500, although 700 or 900 is better for us to remember a proposal for example. The SPD on the compensation bonus. Still, we supported the 500. As simple as that. The bill is completely useless. If you want, you can have it, and then I look forward to the next opening word. What you're gonna say, you're gonna be okay tonight. We're just gonna stick around, 'cause it doesn't make any sense to change the state budget bill today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u25	That was Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Now again, my colleague Miroslav Kalousek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u26	I'm sorry, I don't want to hold you up, but I just can't resist telling my colleague Stanjur what an inappropriate optimist he is in all respect. He said fare discounts, that's settled, nobody's going anywhere. There are 4.5 billion in this proposal, and once the restrictions on the free movement of persons are over, it will draw on it. Even if all retired people are sitting at home, the carriers will be showing their rides, the Jančur will take care of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u27	Thank you. No one else is reporting to the general debate, and I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary yes, the rapporteur is not interested. So, the final word of Secretary of Finance, Mrs. Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, the reason. We are not standard times, Mr. Chairman Stanjur. We're not debating the standard process. The time is non-standard, and the budget approval is non-standard. When I was here a month ago with that 200-billion-dollar deficit, I made it clear to you that the biggest unknown was time. That we don't know the extent, we don't know the extent of the damage, we don't know the duration. And now we've moved on. And, of course, we've moved on with the fact that we've refined the revenue gap. So this deficit isn't about having another 100 billion, but it's about losing our revenue by another 60 billion, and we've refined the macroeconomic prediction from minus 5.1 to minus 5.6 to drop, and that's why we have to add minus 60 out of the original 80 billion and we're at minus 40. So there won't be much left in the government budget reserve. Now we know roughly, roughly, how much spending per month, let it be Antivirus, let it be 25. You approved here, or you'll approve, sorry, those state insurance companies, that's some 22 billion. And, of course, I have to operate with that. That means that right now, and I'm convinced that the way we did it, that's a good thing. If I looked into that ball a month ago, as you say, and came up with 300 billion, it could also be cheating on the financial markets. That's how we got ready. Today we sold another 74 billion with interest below 1.2 - I think 1.13 - which is just as well. That means one step at a time... In the meantime, the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act has been approved. And, of course, we're also preparing for the bond financial market. That's important, too. You can't fly in and just cheat like that right now. So the time and the unknown is just what works against us. And I don't have that time. And you can come here and attack me again and so on and so on that's one way or another. There's just no time to negotiate with individual ministers and argue with them about that or that. That's what we agreed on with the government. That's what the Prime Minister wants. Therefore, as of 30 April, cash transactions will be made, unused expenses will be made, tied up, untied. And we're going into a tough conversation. Because, of course, the economy doesn't go 100%, and the resorts don't spend 100%. The quarter's just gonna show us some views, and we're gonna talk about it. But I'm not gonna tell you I'm here for the last time. I don't know if this is the last time I'm here. On Monday, the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts issued an evaluation of our macroeconomic ministerial forecast and said it was optimistic. He said it for the first time in two and a half years that she was optimistic. That means they see the drop even bigger. That means so many unknowns that at this point it's impossible to tell how it's just going to go on. Of course, I'd be happy if things got better. But I'm still reading all sorts of ideas in the media that we're not even agreed on, and that would mean, of course... And I will fight such ideas. I'm against forgiving everyone, that means everyone, even those who don't have problems. On the contrary, we must target the aid to the most vulnerable. And that's what I'm convinced we're doing. Now I don't want to poke at you for blaming me for not knowing if it was 300 billion a month ago or not. You know the portfolio guarantee is 33 percent. That's how we're supposed to be here. And I think we're gonna be getting high for a while. So I'm not gonna do it like that. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Okay, so you hit the fare. I agree with you that I think it's consumed. It's already shown the first quarter. But maybe we'll find some savings there after April 30th. It won't be tens of billions. They won't. There's no such fiscal space. I know that as Treasury Secretary. And the fact that you're still hitting the clerks... ježiš, you think I'm gonna find tens of billions in there? In those operations where we've already reduced by 10 percent in a proper budget? Officials have been reduced to almost 2013. So you want me to lower the cops? Taking their money? Or should I lower... I mean, even those county sanitation stations are civil servants. Is that where I'm supposed to lower? Or the labor authorities that are now developing the Antivirus? Or even the financial guys I know how much you hate, who are in the process, and you said yourself, okay, pětadvacítka-year-old? So who's it in? You think I'm just gonna find billions in there? Maybe two or three. That I'd take it away from their bounties. Maybe I'll find that I'll just pick up some reserves and so on. What's the point? Is this gonna help me? Maybe we will. I don't know. We'll talk about it after 30 April, we'll judge who's at home and so on. But we just can't find tens of billions there. That's what I'm saying completely responsible. And now we're creating fiscal space so we can pay the paramedics. We want to raise salaries there. We'll talk to the government about social services to make up for it. So there's a whole series of items. We approach each... That's why I've got the ITA system that we're basically not putting anything in the budget right now except those insured people. It's all in the government's budget reserve. And each item just decides... I have absolutely minimal competence, I don't even have the standard one that I have as Secretary of Finance out of this emergency situation, and every item is decided by the Glee Club government. We discuss it, we want it documented and so on. That's the only system we can hold on to right now. So we're going to do the analysis, but it's just coming out as we go along. And now we're creating fiscal space. And I don't really know if this is the last time I'm here. And I'm not gonna tell you if this is the last time I'm here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u29	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. We are after the end of the debate, but with priority rights the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club is reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u30	Colleagues applauded. Why not? But the numbers don't add up, Madam Secretary. The numbers first. We've reduced the macroeconomic outlook by half a percent of GDP from minus 5.1 to minus 5.6. I interpret well, Madam Secretary, what did you say? Madam Secretary, you said half a percent. [[Yes.]] Half a percent of GDP, if I round it up, is 30 billion. Isn't that right? That's right. Six trillion, so do it, count percent, half a percent. I think they're pretty simple numbers. By 30 billion, GDP will decrease, and that is why there is a 60 billion income loss. Only the two numbers don't fit at all. You can clap, but it doesn't work that way. Notice that the Minister has once again used a political foul. And I don't tip her off. I want to have a serious debate. And he says, "What about the officials? Madam Secretary, read the screen recording of my performance. I haven't said a word about officials. I was talking about forms, bureaucracy, stamps. That's completely different. Or for you, the officials are the forms, the stamps, the confirmation? Not for me. Then why are you arguing like that? What kind of story did you make up? Well, at least read it, or listen to what I'm saying, and then argue with it. I said you didn't remove a single stamp, a single form, a single bureaucratic obstacle. I think that's useless stuff. Those aren't the people who have to enforce the stamp under those laws, the form, the confirmation. And I want us to shrink in this. There wasn't a word about the clerks. But you're gonna say, "Should I release the cops?" Who suggested it, Madam Secretary? Anybody here talk about reducing the number of cops today? So use fair arguments. This is totally unfair! It's not a rush hour. That's just a foul. It's for a yellow card. One more time, and it's on the red card!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u31	Since the general debate has been closed, and the rapporteur has not exercised her right to the final word, I am opening up a detailed debate in which Mrs Věra Kovářová is the first Mrs. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to House document 5050, which is the motion for an accompanying resolution, and that is: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to 1. re-evaluated the financing and pre-financing of projects co-financed by the European Union and allocated part of the non-binding funds to areas in which investment projects are ready for immediate implementation and, in connection with this transfer, allocated funding for co-financing from the State budget; 2. within the government's budgetary reserve, it allocated 10 billion. CZK, which will be intended for municipalities and cities to finance investment projects prepared for immediate implementation and to support SMEs beyond the COVID programme for creating demand in regions under national programmes; [[21.00 hours]] 3. re-evaluated expenditure priorities for domestic meaningful projects that will revive domestic demand and consumption over the duration of the negative effects of SARS-CoV-2 epidemic; 4. identify long-term bearing sectors of the domestic economy, which will be supported because of the benefits of higher added value of these sectors and the long-term benefits; 5. put forward a long-term strategy to support domestic industry and a sector with higher added value, such as nanotechnology, Industry 4+, and submitted this strategy to the Chamber of Deputies by 31. 12. 2020." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u33	Thank you. Mr Munzar in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Your Honor. I also want to speak with the motion for an accompanying resolution, which concerns the evergreen that I was talking about here 14 days ago, three weeks before we discussed the state budget change, and that is the planned sale of metals from the State Material Reserves Administration. As you know, the Ministry of Industry and Trade is preparing the sale of aluminium, copper, zinc originally worth about 0.6 billion. CZK for this year, but the problem is that thanks to the epidemic, because of the global decrease in industrial production, demand for these commodities is declining rapidly and prices are falling rapidly. If you look at the London Stock Exchange from the beginning of the year, the decline is significant and even the Chairman of the State Material Reserve Administration, Mr. Švagr, says that the stock prices are already 13 percent below the registration prices. The minister publicly said last week or the week before last that he would not flinch from the sale and prepares the sale with loss, so literally at any cost. But I don't think we're in that economic condition, and our state budget isn't in that economic condition to do business with significant losses. That's not responsible. [[The Minister of Finance speaks to Members from the rapporteur's table.]] Madam Secretary, I'd like to say so. This is not really responsible behavior, to say the public, I would say that this is economic stupidity. And please, Minister, you're saying that we need other things in the Material Reserves Administration today, which is also true, but you're hiding a little behind it today, because you've been preparing that sale before the economic crisis, before the epidemic, so today is just an argument that I think you're hiding behind. So if the government cannot evaluate the situation itself, then it is appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to give it some boundaries. And the limit is not to sell these metals from the Material Reserves Administration at a loss. And I acknowledge that the coalition partner of the ANO ČSSD movement also criticizes the sale publicly, so I hope that he will support my accompanying resolution. The accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to assess the current market situation, the current price of these commodities as compared to the price of their purchase and, in the event of loss, not to carry out such sales before any sale of metals from the strategic stocks of the Treasury. " This resolution, in my view, ensures that it is not sold at a loss, so thank you for the possible support of this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u35	Thank you. And so far, the last one entered in the detailed debate is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am applying to House document 5051, which is also the proposal for an accompanying resolution. I wanted to mention two issues that I consider relevant in relation to the state budget and the ongoing crisis. First of all, it's a question of what things are supposed to change. Now there's a big debate about real estate taxation. I think it is appropriate not to forget things with some medium-term horizon, and here we see it as a huge problem of current labour taxation, where work, including taxes and other taxes, is taxed entirely disparately against everything else. Even today, social democracy is proposing that the state forgives companies for their labor contributions, which we have been proposing x months ago, slowly two months ago, so I'm glad it's gone into a part of the government coalition. But the problem needs to be dealt with in the long run, not just in a crisis horizon. And the second thing is that the crisis is also an opportunity for the Czech Republic at the same time. If the state is going to intervene in the Czech economy in a huge way, it should, in our view, do so in order to increase the added value produced by our economy, as well as reduce the capital drain, which today is one of the serious economic problems that our countries are suffering. For this reason, I propose this accompanying resolution: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies 1. Draws attention to the government's strong dependence on public budgets on labour taxation, which has grown significantly in recent years and is reflected in the years of the crisis by a very rapid loss of state budget revenue; 2. Calls on the Government to prepare fiscal and economic policy measures to mitigate the dependence of public budgets on labour taxation; 3. Calls on the Government to use the current crisis to transform the Czech economy into a knowledge economy." A more detailed explanation is given in the Houses of Document 5051. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-010-007.u37	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary is not interested. The rapporteur is also not interested in the final word. So I'm ending the second reading of this proposal, and I'm interrupting this point until we have discussed the next points in the third reading. And now we're getting to the third reading points, specifically the point.
