ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws (crisis law), as amended, and Act No. 243/2020 Coll., on the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic /German press 1111/ - shortened negotiations Under Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that, in accordance with Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that, under Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the I'm opening the debate. I'm asking if anyone is interested in discussing the short-term negotiations. If no one applies to the debate, which I do not see, I am ending the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government Bill amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 243/2020 Coll., on the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic, House press 1111, in a shortened hearing." [[Crisis law]] Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this resolution? Who's against it? In the vote number 15, 97 Members are enrolled, for 52, against 16. The motion was accepted. And I'm opening point two. So once again I have to read this: Government Bill, which amends Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 243/2020 Coll., on the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic, House press 1111, shortened negotiations. [[Crisis law]] The submitted proposal will be presented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u2	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I will be very brief and I would like to begin by saying that the aim of this proposal is not any additional repression or the construction of a police state, but that objective is very simple. The point is that, in a situation where we are in two laws in crisis measures, we are in a law on public health and we are in a law on crisis, so that we also reconcile the possibilities of enforcing these regulations and, where appropriate, punishing them. If I simplify it, the deficit is in the law of crisis. A crisis law arose long, long ago in the past, at a time when the only disaster of great magnitude with which this country had experience was floods, and this is how it was written. And the crisis law, as it is written, does not allow for its violation, virtually. for breach of the regulation resulting from it, punish natural persons undertaking and legal persons, which the law on the protection of public health allows. Therefore, we are aware of this amendment, or this amendment, which I am speaking here today, is part of the big amendment to crisis lawmaking, which is still in the commentary process. However, the negotiations are being prolonged and the practice shows that it is very complicated for the police, but also for others, especially the administrative authorities, so that under one law I can punish and under the other law I cannot punish. Therefore, we propose a very simple thing, these two laws sesoulad. The sanctions in that amendment to the crisis law remain the same. After the meeting of the Security Committee, we have retreated from one proposal, we have complied with Mr Vách, and therefore the sanctions remain the same, and therefore it is merely the sesoulation of these two laws. I believe that the majority in the Chamber of Deputies will identify with this intention and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Security Committee, to which the Government's proposal was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as press 1111/1. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček is prepared to inform us about the discussion of the proposal and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, colleagues, allow me to introduce you to resolution 199 of the 47th meeting of the Security Committee which took place today, and allow me to introduce you to the results. Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček and news report Zdeněk Ondráček, and after a general and detailed debate I. proposes pursuant to § 99 para. 3 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, to hold a general debate on the bill in plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. II. We propose that, under the same provision of the law cited, a detailed debate be held on the whole draft normative content. III. We propose that the Chamber of Deputies close the debate of the House of Press 1111 by Wednesday, 9 December 2020, including. IV. We recommend - and now I would like you to pay attention - to the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the bill as amended by this adopted amendment: In Part One, Art. I point 3 is deleted. This is what the Minister of the Interior pointed out when sanctions on some of the violations proposed to increase remain constant and remain in the current form that was. V. Instructs the Chairman of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. VI. As rapporteur for the committee, he places me in charge of introducing this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have just done.- Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. And we would now vote on whether we will have a general debate on this matter. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. I'll give you a little more space. I feel like the quota isn't filled. Even for those who have come to the hall, we are voting on whether the general debate will be conducted. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 16 vote is 96, for 78, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we will have a general debate, which I am opening with this. With priority rights...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose a five-minute limitation of the debate in the general and detailed debate for one Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u7	I thank you and we will vote immediately on the proposal that has been made, which means limiting speaking time in the general debate to five minutes, in detail also for five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 17 entered 96, for 48, against 15. The motion was not accepted. There. In the context of the general debate, Mr... Sorry, vote check. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] So check complete. And with priority rights, Vice-President Tomio Okamura will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is making a motion to amend the crisis law. But it is not possible to start from the end, because these laws, in their essence, violate both other ordinary laws and the Constitution. And their principle is based on the principle of extreme emergency law. The criminal law defines it as follows: The act of another criminal offence, which is averted by someone directly threatening the interest protected by the criminal law, is not a criminal offence." In our particular case, it is a matter of limiting constitutional rights in cases where there is real danger and damage not only to the lives of a considerable extent. In the event of extreme emergency, it is not a major emergency if it was possible to avert this danger in the circumstances, or the eligible result is likely to be as serious or even more serious than the one who threatened or was obliged to endure it. I hope the principle is clear. If there is a danger, any damage or damage, I can use the means that would be illegal in a normal situation, but this is essential that the damage that I will cause by breaking the law must be less than the threat and that danger must be immediate. That means I can't do more or the same damage as any good. I think that this principle of proportionality must be fully logical in the event of a crisis and an emergency. I believe that these principles cannot be disagreed with. Probably just a lunatic would say the means don't matter. If someone's putting out a fire with gasoline, he's sorry for his good intentions. Today, the government can declare an emergency in the event of natural disasters, environmental or industrial accidents, accidents or other dangers which to a large extent threaten lives, health or property values, or internal order and security. Vir covid and panic around him have shown that we lack both a strong definition of the epidemic and what is a danger that to a large extent threatens lives and health. Let me quote from the petition of part of the doctors designated by the Czech Government. I quote: "This type of coronavirus does not pose a serious threat to healthy citizens of working age if they are not exposed to a high dose of the virus in the long term. If this group of populations encounters the virus, it usually does not exhibit any or only mild symptoms consistent with a common flu disease. The virus may pose a threat to elderly and chronically ill citizens, to about the same extent as other coronavirus, flu and other viral infections. We believe that our health care is at a high level and is able to take care of a vulnerable group of people. A much greater danger to the general health of the people is the medial image of covid disease. Never in the past has the population been informed of one particular disease for so long, so detailed and all the media at once. As a result, the public is terrified in an unprecedented way." I'm still quoting from the letter that went through the media. "There are more and more serious diseases than COVID-19, and people are not constantly stressed by all media. Focusing public attention on one particular type of coronavirus is a dangerous precedent of fear and the devastating psyche of people and their social relations, which can have an unsightly devastating impact on the economy and the overall life of society." End of the quote from the petition of part of the doctors designated by the Czech Government. Yes, the quoted appeal is a few months old, and as I was saying, the mainstream media has also been running. But the statistics are starting to show that it's true today. True, we still have no relevant statistics on how many people actually died of covid and how many people really got sick just for covid, but we know for sure that we have increased compared to the average deaths of people who are not, I repeat, not affected by the covid virus at all. So apart from the economic damage, we have a perfectly documented loss of life caused by stress, delaying health care due to diseases other than covid, and a terrifying presentation around the covid. It is not only a lie that the government has been putting out positive covid here over and over again, but it is indeed a serious spread of alarm messages that really destroy health and human lives. Health protection against any danger, against any dangerous infection, is always appropriate including extreme measures such as emergency and emergency measures. But in order to declare such states, it is necessary to lay down quite clear rules for what is a real epidemic and what is a danger that to a large extent threatens lives. From the epidemiologist's point of view, it was very simple until recently. The number of patients, i.e. really sick with temperature and other difficulties, who were sick with the doctor, was calculated on the number of inhabitants in the region. If this figure exceeded 3,000, later only 1,500, the regions and regional hygiene announced antiepidemic measures. The proposed law, which we are discussing here, is even more affected by the rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution, and, in the event of a real danger, most of us are likely to accept it. [[With that?]] The problem is that we don't really have clear boundaries here, when these laws can't be applied, and the public is justifiably exposed. Here I would like to point out that I am not talking about the covid at all, I am talking about the anchoring of the law, the scale and the fact that there are no boundaries for how to use it or not. I'm just giving specific examples of the current situation, but I'm not talking about the covid as such right now, we've already discussed that at the previous point. And to make it clearer, according to long-term surveillance, for example. annually infected with influenza virus of about 33 percent of the population and of this total number of 26 percent will become ill, of which 1% will be hospitalized, and of the total number hospitalized as a result of influenza, i.e. its complications, or on the basis of an existing disease, about 8 percent will die. These are long-term averages, but they are in practice numbers in the Czech Republic in the order of millions of patients and thousands of deaths. It means that if we accept emergency situations because of the covid, then even if it disappears, and as if it doesn't disappear, we'll still have recurring waves of real life over and over again, I'm stressing a real epidemic where diseases of millions and more people, I repeat the sick, not just positive. For example, in 2018, over 950,000 citizens were really sick with the flu, those who lay with the fever. After all, that is true today. But if someone has the flu and covid is positive at the same time, it's a covid bonus without anyone examining the threat to the flu. This year was a crazy precedent. And now it's up to the government whether a society literally sprained from its joints will get back to its original state, or we'll go crazy forever. So when I sum up our position on this government proposal, and I say again, I'm not talking about the health aspect anymore, I'm talking about the fact that there are no limits on the application of these crisis laws, and we see it right now in this situation, that it's not clear, that's why the government is actually in the middle of it. So I say, if I sum up our opinion on your proposal, set clear rules where your measures can apply, and we can have a discussion about it. I'm not saying we're in or out, just a discussion. But even more tightening the screws and restricting civil rights and destroying the country without the clear rules of why - and again I say that the discussion here doesn't just slide to the covide now, I'm talking about setting the limits in this law - without the clear rules of why, it's really not nonsense, but it feels like it's really unconstitutional. And I think that citizens would deserve to make it clear when and how such laws, which fundamentally restrict citizens' rights, make it clear or more clear how to use them and in what situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. Mr Bojko is also enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be talking for long. My main concern is that we don't punish entrepreneurs any more than the poor are punished. In the recent past, our fellow Members and actually members of the government visited the restaurant and violated the law, or the government's regulation on some alcohol consumption and so on, and finally received some symbolic penalty of 3,000, so I hope our police authorities, etc. they'll be benevolent and indulgent even in the event of a violation of some of the laws of entrepreneurs. I just want to read something, I found something on the Internet, I leaked something out of it, but to outline the desperate situation of those entrepreneurs, those people who have pubs that some people haven't opened because they just don't have the strength for the third time, and they don't know what's going to happen, and then they're the desperate ones who really, desperate situations, desperate acts are out of desperate situations. Some of these entrepreneurs are really desperate, and some of them just end up. Try to imagine if somebody else had a chance to kill themselves, that the poor would be even more poor and those really rich, we wouldn't get richer, we wouldn't get richer, we wouldn't want to have pubs, restaurants, cafés, bars, wine shops, well, we'd let a few exceptions that survive, but those are decided by someone else, that we could gradually, inconspicuously, every tenth of us would lose our jobs, that we'd start giving our neighbors some extreme nonsense, maybe like they were breathing fresh air to stew, instead of helping them, that we'd start worrying about our lives, that we wouldn't want to get sick, that we'd even die, that we'd start giving our neighbors some kind of nonsense, like that we'd breathe fresh air for a walk, instead of suicide, that we wouldn't want to be happy, that we wouldn't want to be happy, that we wouldn't want to spend our lives, that our children, that we wouldn't want to spend our lives, that our lives, that we wouldn, that we couldn't be sick, that our children, that we couldn't be sick, that we couldn't be sick, that we couldn't be sick, that we couldn, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we couldn't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we't get sick, that we'd, we'd, we'd, that we'd, that we'd, we'd, that we'd, that we couldn'd our lives, that we couldn't we couldn't get sick, that we wouldn'd, But effectively kill people of retirement age, start with those in retirement homes, prevent anyone in control of this process, blame it on something else, that we will voluntarily play targeted TV lies every day and look forward to believing them and starting to view them as the truth. That's really gonna make us feel better. That those who lose their livelihood will be so much that they will have no one in their neighborhood to help them. Let's make it so that everyone doesn't worry about their future or their friends anymore, and they don't hold on to the water, we don't enjoy life anymore, we don't go to the theaters, we go to the fairs, fairs, markets, concerts and the like. We don't want that. That we can't sing, that we're gonna start worrying about people, that all those who don't take our deal, we're gonna call them selfish, dumb, and bad people who aren't supposed to be in society. That money is everything, we will do everything we can to have it, and we will sacrifice our children, our health and our lives. We'll make money an idol. That we don't need friends. That we will consider healthy and normal those who often go to doctors and doctors who do not talk back and do not ask questions and immediately follow instructions. We agree that the patient does not need and should not be informed about the nature, benefits and adverse effects of procedures, operations, use of pharmaceutical products. That the Constitution of the Czech Republic will cease to be respected, our state will manage a few puppets and perhaps some health care professional. That we won't mind anyone taking unconstitutional instructions from the government, we'll just listen even if it kills us. You have to listen to yourself. That we'll never see the stars again, because after dark, we won't be able to get out that guys won't go out for beer, women won't go on ladies' nights with friends, that we'll shut down most of the shops, we won't have a place to buy children suitable clothes and shoes for a new season, that we'll cut the opening hours of the authorities and the post office so we can spend a lot more time in the queues, that we probably don't want to be free human beings anymore, we want to die alive. We don't mind. We want someone to tell us exactly what to do and what to do, and if we don't listen to him punish us really badly. I never thought that something like this would happen, that - I still feel like I'm living in some matrix, that I'm in 1989, when the bad communists handed over the republic to the good communists, and that in 31 years I'm gonna wake up in North Korea. And I still think I'm sleeping. And I hope to wake up from this, and I really do not wish desperate entrepreneurs to be punished for their desperate actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u11	Thank you. Next up, Mr Vích is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u12	Good evening, everyone. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be much more brief. I'll just complete what has not been said here by our President, Mr Tomio Okamura. We were opposed to this law being discussed in a short hearing, but the House decided otherwise. So for us, this law is presented simply at a bad time and it introduces further repression and restrictions against our citizens and legal persons, plus at a time when, paradoxically, there is a decline in crime due to the coronavirus. Just the citizens' patience has reached maximum, and the mood in society is not good, and in this we are discussing the amendment to this law. According to the SPD, an amendment to the Public Health Act was an option, not an amendment to the crisis law, which is simply unacceptable to us at the moment. Moreover, it is a further transfer of the performance of government administration to self-government, at a time when administrative authorities and oerpéčky are long-term staffed, and it is a new obligation that will be added to them without prior consultation. So we can also see another problem in the fact that... in the authority of officers whose current law on municipal police does not allow access to establishments outside working hours, unless it is an establishment where gambling is carried out, and the officers of the city police will have to call the Police of the Czech Republic in the same way. And as we know, we are currently missing thousands. So the solution is elsewhere, including the prevention and call for compliance, and not to create a police state and to tolerate restrictions on the part of natural and legal persons. So these are the reasons why we cannot support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u13	Thank you. Please, Mr Munzar, Mr Lubomír volný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues, good evening, Minister. From my point of view, this law de facto fully reflects the nature of the government's approach to our citizens, especially to businessmen and entrepreneurs. Instead of preventing and explaining, the government focuses mainly on restrictions and sanctions. Minister, the government does not explain many of its actions to citizens, and it has long since managed to trust citizens in what you are doing. At the same time, government and government officials send signals that the government does not trust citizens, and it often seems to take them as its opponents. . [[20.40 hours]] This proposal, too, is actually a reflection of this distrust. Then, Minister, don't be surprised that the government itself has no confidence in what it does. You have long managed to trust in the measures that you ordinate on the running belt of our company without often empirically supported. I am not surprised that the willingness of citizens to adhere to many chaotic and illogical decisions is shrinking. Yet, the vast majority adhere to their teeth clenched. I certainly do not call on citizens not to follow the measures, but I do not blame the growing skepticism, I do not wonder the growing despair in this life without hope, when virtually every day they have to watch what the government has invented on them again. One example for all, he's been talked about here several times, there's the latest evergreen, which is a ban on selling alcoholic beverages from the restaurant to go. Directly selling alcoholic beverages, the government justifies the bill in the explanatory memorandum. Today, although the Minister of Health said that it would change, the Prime Minister said so, but the sale of alcoholic beverages is one of the reasons listed in the proposal to tighten sanctions. In the restaurant, we can't buy a draft beer in a PET bottle with us, but next to a curfew or a supermarket, we can. Indeed, I do not know what the epidemiological difference is, but economically it is, Minister, another restriction for the functioning of restaurants. It is another intervention in their economic activity, and thus in the livelihood of their owners and employees, as well as in any unexplained restriction on their opening hours within eight hours, as well as discrimination against small specialised shops compared to e.g. with big supermarkets. All these bans and orders that, Minister, often look like they're sucked out of your finger, you want to impose heavy financial sanctions. But printing your fist more isn't the answer. People aren't subjects, they're citizens. The state is supposed to be their partner, not their labor. That is why I will not vote in favour of these new sanctions. And the second reason is that I will not legitimize your messy measures by voting in favour of putting the sentence in the law that people are obliged to bear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u15	Thank you. Mr. MP Lubomír Volný, ready to... I apologize, Mr Mašek, for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond through Mr President to Mr Munzar. There was one serious thing that was said here. You, my colleague, have expressed some understanding that some people have had enough. Not that you're completely supportive, but that they can probably not follow the measures. There is a certain threat here, because we have now approved the continuation of the emergency situation and it is precisely in this emergency situation that the Police of the Czech Republic cannot control, police and police officers of the municipal police were not authorized within the limits of their responsibility to control compliance with the crisis measures. There was also a gap in the fact that legal entities and business individuals were not obliged to suffer restrictions under the crisis law issued pursuant to Section 5 (e). And that's essentially being corrected here by this law, because some kind of threat to the spread of an epidemic, for example. By innkeepers in some more massive way exceeding the time of operation of their establishments, which has already started to happen somewhere, it just ran until morning, etc. and it couldn't be sanctioned. So I think it's really limited to the connection with this epidemic, and I think it's necessary to treat it in this way so that the police and the officers can do something effectively on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Klaus, then Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u18	I would have responded to the previous speaker. I think this thing is a little different. Here, part of the House, and it's almost half, doesn't think that government measures are mostly thought-out and meaningful, that they have a real basis, and somehow the government knows what it's doing. He considers these measures to be chaotic, and logically, therefore, even less so, this same part of the House wants draconian punishments to fall as their violations or exact non-compliance. You divide the citizens of this Republic, because part of the people has no economic impact on all the measures that are taking place, and part huge. The same is true in the way these people believe in the government that the measures they're taking have some effect on the functioning of the pandemic. So it's a very dangerous step, we're not going to vote for him logically. If we did not vote for the chaotic measures themselves, then logically we will not vote for the draconian punishments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u20	Thank you. I also want to respond through you. I think that the purpose does not justify the means, and in this case, he here said Klaus by your means, we do not agree with many measures. I said it here. There are two reasons why I won't vote. One reason is that I do not want to legitimize the sanctions of those government measures that I often consider chaotic and illogical. And the second reason really is that I support the government in this case so that it can, I say, sanction the enforcement of measures that just don't often have logic - I was talking about beer, I was talking about opening hours - I don't think it's right. I certainly didn't ask anyone here not to keep it. I even said that most of them, the vast majority of them, entrepreneurs and businessmen, with their teeth clenched, are trying to follow it. But on the other hand, I see, and I talk to these people, I see some increasing skepticism about these measures, because they often don't really make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u21	For the general debate, Mr Volný Member, Mr Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u22	Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to appreciate that, in the proposal, if I have understood it correctly, the complex amendment does not increase the sanctions that have been imposed until today, that only the proposal seeks to expand the number of persons who might be affected in some way for violating government regulations. I am glad that the sanctions will not be increased, but at the same time I cannot support this bill because I see it as further tightening of bolts, as another wheel of the famous salami in the salami method that the government will gradually sweep away its way to suppress any resistance to government regulations. Right now, at this very moment, police officers in Prague are stopping the innkeepers' event, who not only in Prague, but all over the Republic decided not to close their businesses as they should. And that is exactly what this government approach will lead to. Every further tightening of the screws, every other round of famous salami will lead you to inspire resistance in people against your decisions. When I'm walking down the street, taking public transportation or taking a train, I'm not witnessing a massive violation of government regulations. The biggest sin I saw today on my way from Ostrava to Prague was exactly the same as I see here in the House - that is the nose that is pushed out of the drape, the bad use of the drape. Otherwise, people follow government measures. They try to breathe sometimes in the moment when they just don't have anyone in front of them for two meters, and then maybe they put on a drape. [[20.50 hours]] People are not responsible or citizens are not responsible for whether coronavirus is spreading in any way or not because they behave irresponsiblely. That's not true. The absolute majority of the citizens of this country are responsible. The absolute majority of the infected, if the data I have at my disposal is all right, if not, then you can fix me, get infected at work, at home, or while travelling. We have 15 m2 in the store, but when you take the train and you're unlucky, you're on one leg, and it's on some stranger, because there's just so little room on that train that these people breathe right from mouth to mouth, they practically provide first aid. So if something's going wrong in this country, given the epidemiological situation, it's not because people don't want or do not follow government regulations. It's because the government's orders are really chaotic, confusing, and people already want to protest. And not only do they want to protest, they're already protesting. They protested before the House today. What was very interesting was that when the people representing a liberal democratic view of society were demonstrating here, they were standing right behind our windows, bombing the Prime Minister with petkas. We've been getting stuffy around here. And today, when a much smaller group of people wanted to protest measures or an emergency, the street was suddenly closed. It's so interesting. All during one parliamentary term of one House. Let's see if there are any other demonstrations of the Liberal Democrats, if that street behind the House is open again. So this law is another tightening of bolts, another famous wheel from the salami method. That is why we cannot support it. And the only way to make these measures even more respected is if the government itself sets an example and doesn't produce every month or every 14 days someone who gets caught not following their own regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. Mr Benda, Mr Kolářík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u24	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I consider anything to be quite necessary to discuss at this time, it is this government amendment to the crisis management law. It's really just a useless government mistake trying to draw attention to the fact that it increases its rigor against non-compliance with the rules that it enforces. I consider it entirely necessary. That's why the public reaction is so wild. In the end, it turns out that the government has actually retreated from that single increase in sanctions, the Security Committee's decision seems to be fairly unanimous in saying, there will be no increase in fines. I really don't know why these things are done. Why is it carried to the House in an emergency state, why is it worn that it has to be discussed in three or four hours, when the only effect is that from the transitional law we adopted here, the powers of the police in breach of emergency measures and emergency measures, it suddenly comes out and goes into crisis law and we feel that something has improved significantly. Still in the form, yes, the Minister will say that they have added that measures must be followed under the crisis law. That's the amendment to the article... paragraph 29, paragraph 9. I always consider these ex post attempts to heal something terribly dangerous. The only result is that all those courts that go through after what you've done tonight, you're gonna lose. This will be the only result of such legal DIY, which appears here now, of course, without discussion in all the institutions, everywhere. All of a sudden, it's said it hasn't happened yet, so you obviously haven't done anything until now, you didn't have to follow the crisis law. Dear legal and natural persons, you didn't have to do anything because we, the government, come up with this power to be added. Those are such unfortunate steps. And otherwise, tell me what's new. The police sanctions were there, under the transitional law, which we understood somehow. The debate around him took place in May. We said don't do it. Try to talk to these people. We've been telling the government all along. Tell those people what to do, and don't keep telling them not to do anything, and don't order them, and don't ban them, and don't order them. Unfortunately, the government doesn't know how to think that way, and it feels like it has to drive everyone like puppets. If we say much more, "Dear citizens, avoid this one, avoid this one, do not go there." Dear innkeepers, close at 8:00, 10:00 is too late. No. We must still have bans and orders. I consider the law to be completely useless, bringing nothing new in this form, and only threatening any sanctions that have fallen to this day, to the past, because they clearly show that the sanctions have been unjustified by the government's own admission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kolářík, Mr Pávek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief too, it's advanced class, so let's get this done fast. I understand the purpose of this law to bring something that is missing into our legal system, and that is some fine for legal persons who at this time cannot be punished for failing to comply with the measures. However, I don't understand the timing now, the moment the entire public is really in tune. The government, which is changing its measures at any moment, is causing quite a bit of chaos. How many times these people don't even know what they're paying, whether they can shop on Sundays, or whether they can be in the pub by 10:00 or 8:00, or whether they can buy five beers there or not. And we come up with a debate about giving them more punishment, of introducing some punishments. That we just want to make them worse at this difficult time they're going through. I would understand if we were here by 9:00 p.m. to discuss how to help them in this situation, how to make it right so that the economy doesn't go bankrupt, so that these people can work somehow, some kind of, some kind of measure that would just help them. [[unintelligible]] And instead, until tonight, we're discussing how to sanction them for not following it. I would understand the moment those fines are given at the maximum level, those people are laughing at it, and they don't want to understand it, and they do it all the time and all the time. But in a moment, and the Prime Minister here said it, when the biggest fine that was granted was two and a half thousand, so I don't understand the lifting of that amount to a bigger one. It doesn't make any sense to me. As I said, a lot of people don't even know what these measures are in force at the moment, and we're here to discuss how to fine them. That is why we as pirát will not support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u27	Thank you. Mr Pávek in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm getting a very bad feeling about this today. The feeling that this government really sincerely hates all the small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen who are being liquidated by their businesses, their incomes, their existence. And to make matters worse, he's still coming up with a proposal to strengthen police repression. Instead of trying to gain confidence and building confidence, which she clearly fails to do, she strengthens repression. It's totally unacceptable to me. And as I perceive the mood in society, I fear that it is coming to civil disobedience, which is the constitutional right of each of us. And perhaps because the government is aware of it, it is precisely those repressive measures that it wants to strengthen. Unacceptable from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u29	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail. Here he is registered as the first Mr Feri. He's not in the O.R. yet. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. If I see no one, I have no choice but to end the debate in detail. I speak very slowly, in case the MP walks into the hall. However, I am ending the detailed debate at this time. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will only allow myself, in short, to respond to the debate that has taken place. Mr Munzar mentioned that the bill seeks to legitimize sanctions. It is not necessary, Mr President, because sanctions are already in the law. And they don't change because I told you at the beginning that in Article 1, point 3 is deleted, i.e. sanctions as such, which are in the present law, do not change. So we don't want to legitimize any sanctions. Or we don't want to, they stay the same. Member Lubomír Volný. Mr President, Mr President, the salami method of tightening screws. No, it is not a salami method, it is the elimination of the disproportion of sanctions between natural persons and legal persons and engaged natural persons. Because at present, you can sanction natural persons for violating this law, but you cannot sanction legal persons and natural persons. So the whole point is to eliminate the disproportion. You asked why the event that might be taking place today, the closing of the House Street, didn't take place six months ago, and it's happening today. This is quite simple, just read the law on the right of assembly, where you will find in the annex, in which streets no meeting may take place. That comes from the law. If this had happened in the past, it was a violation of the law that was to be sanctioned, but it wasn't because, say, the police left it at that time, but we discussed it on the Security Committee, and it hasn't happened since. And a fellow Member, Lukáš Kolářík, asked why this is being dealt with now. Well, because there's the disproportion. And if we want to eliminate the fact that someone is being fined or sanctioned just because he is an employee of one or the other restaurant, possibly. another facility, and it does any work in employment there, but whoever is his employer and who may order him to do the job wouldn't be sanctioned, so I guess you'd feel there's a problem. So the purpose of this law is that the person who ordered the violation be sanctioned or executed it himself. That's why the law removes the disproportion between the punishment of individuals, legal entities and business individuals. That's the point of the law. The problem has been known since spring of this year from the first covid, except by the legislative circle - the government virtually. Ministry, commentary proceedings, etc. - it just took so long to get a second wave. And now we have to say, if we want to let the other wave pass in this way, that someone is deliberately breaking the law, or if we want to deal with it in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u31	Have a good night. [[A Member of Feri is coming to the Minister at the rapporteur's table.]] That was the final word of the rapporteur. Now, the Minister's final word. Mr. Secretary reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u32	I, therefore, if possible, because I admit that my knowledge of the Rules of Procedure is no longer the same as it used to be, so if it is possible for me to open the debate in detail with my speech as Minister, I am doing so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u33	Okay. That's another matter. [[Minister, thank you.]] Ambassador, I'll give you my word. Under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister has opened up a closed debate in detail in which Mr Feri will speak, who has missed his speech in a properly open, detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u34	I'm sorry, and thank you, Minister, you have a plus, thank you. [[There's laughter in the room.]] I am applying to my amendments. These are House documents 7068, 7069, 7070, 7071. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u35	Okay. I hope the rapporteur has noted that he has the amendments at his disposal. So I am now concluding a detailed debate if no one applies to it. I don't see anyone, so the detailed debate is closed. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Secretary? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u36	I said it very briefly, because I said it in the introduction, then my colleague Ondráček added it more or less. It's really not bullying, it's not trying to suffocate, destroy, destroy. But from my point of view, the law is supposed to apply to everyone. I don't think it's possible for a group of residents to be punished for the same crime, and then there was a group of residents that can't be punished. And that's actually the basis from which we came out in shaping this novel. And I just think we're the state of law. That it is not possible, first, that no one should be punished for breaking the law, and second, that someone should interpret the law arbitraryly and simply decide that he is in a difficult situation, so he will not respect it. That's hard for me to understand, too. We could find out in a minute that a lot of drivers are in a difficult life situation, and instead of 50, they're going to drive 70 through those communities. And that, from where I'm standing, is a path we shouldn't follow. So it's not bullying, it's not a bad idea, it's just a state-of-the-art.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u37	So I thank the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of the Interior, for his final words. And we're good to go. After the second reading of this proposal, it is possible to proceed immediately with the third reading under the Rules of Procedure Act and we will do so. The rapporteur is ready, the Vice Prime Minister is also ready, and I, pursuant to § 99 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act I initiate the third reading of the submitted Government Bill and ask the rapporteur of the Security Committee of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to follow the debate with me from the rapporteur's table at the third reading which I am opening. I don't have a written application for it. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. This is Mr. Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u38	I know you are in a hurry, Mr President, but do we know what we are going to vote on? The rapporteur knows that, but I find that rather not entirely fair to this House. I know we want to speed things up, but there was a rule that, at least once, I wouldn't tell every MP what was going to be voted on. We knew the proposal that came from the Security Committee, I understand that. But in a detailed debate, Mr Feri's four proposals were made. So if we're going to go on every proposal with everything that's stored under the numbers in the Chamber of Deputies, we can, but it doesn't seem to me, and especially for this fact as absurdity, which I consider absurdity from the beginning to the end, completely unnecessary to discuss... It doesn't seem entirely reasonable for us to vote now, and the rapporteur is just telling us the numbers, and no one knows what to imagine under those numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u39	I understand that you and your colleague, Dominik Feri, who is reporting on a factual point, as well as the rapporteur, understand that. First, Mr Dominik Feri, with a factual remark, because here, although the rapporteur has a priority right, there is a factual point in order. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll introduce it briefly, I think it would be polite. The three proposals are variants of reduction and moderation of the maximum amount of the fine imposed on legal persons, respectively. engaged in natural persons. The government is proposing 3 million crowns. I think that achieving a purpose, i.e. A kind of warning to pub operators and restaurants, in particular, to avoid opening and breaking the crisis measures, can also be achieved at the limit of half a million, million or 2 million crowns. It's that broad. I don't think it's right to set $3 million that way. [[21.10 hours]] And the last amendment, the fourth one, concerns the need for the approval of the Minister of Education in advance when the work obligation is imposed on students. You know that the student's work obligation was quite controversial. It's just for the Minister of Education to say yes, it's okay, the doctors can go work at the hospitals and maybe somehow replace the classroom and there'll be some kind of rehearsal regime at the end. That's all. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u41	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now, the rapporteur's point of fact, that is to say, a response to his colleague Benda. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given that Mr Feri, the proposer of the amendments, basically explained this, because the votes - these are four amendments, three of which are alternative, where only the amount is changed: half a million, million or 2 million crowns, so we will vote on them gradually from the lowest amount to come. So there I think that the honourable Member has explained it, and it's not difficult for us to understand it, and we can't really decide that now. And, of course, I can read to you what's going on. But if you ask for it, there's no problem. And the second thing proposed by the group of Members and read by Mr Feri is Mr Dominik Feri's amendment to Mr František Vácha and Mr Vlastimil Válek. He's talking about the thing that Mr. Feri has read, that is, about the students. Of course, if you ask me, I will read the whole amendment that we are talking about here. It's four, five lines, and we can vote with one vote. It's two paragraphs. So it's up to you if you agree to it this way. Of course, if you request a break, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u43	Thank you, rapporteur. Now in the third reading of the debate, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u44	Of course, I respect the right of any Member to propose different amounts of fines and we will decide by vote. I'm just pointing out that it's the maximum amount, which means it's not about anyone who violates it, so the administration will burn out $3 million. The $3 million is there because our whole effort is to reconcile those two laws and the Public Health Act is a maximum of $3 million. If anything else goes through there, there's just gonna be other ceilings on fines in different laws that we're issuing regulations. However, the amount of the fine will always be decided by the administrative authority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u45	Of course. They're talking about the limit on the fine. That's logical. Anyone else for the third reading debate? If I do not see anyone, I also conclude the debate at third reading. I'm asking if we can continue with the final words after the third reading? Mr. Secretary, Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, I will ask the rapporteur Zdeněk Ondráček to introduce us to the voting procedure and then comment on individual amendments as well as the Minister. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Legitimately technical was no read and applied, so there is nothing to vote on. So the first vote would be proposal a. It is the amendment contained in the resolution of the Security Committee. Once again, I will remind you that this is a cancellation of point 3 in the first part of Article 1. This means increasing one penalty from 20 to 50,000 - sanctions remain as they were in the previous law. It means nothing changes, nothing increases. Then the second vote would be an alternative. It is a proposal under letter B of Mr Dominik Feri under House document 7068, 7069 and 7070. It is an alternative solution to the amount of fines for § 34 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) a crisis law. This is for breach of obligations under § 29 para. 9 emergency law. I will read it to you: Lawyers and business individuals are obliged to suffer restrictions under a crisis measure issued pursuant to § 5 letter. (e). And for you to have it complete, then Section 5 letters. (e) it is that, in an emergency or state of danger, the right to engage in business activities which threaten or interfere with emergency measures may be restricted to the strictly necessary time and to the extent necessary, where appropriate, to the extent necessary to prevent them from being implemented. Mr Dominik Feri proposes, alternatively, according to those House documents that I mentioned numerically, to adjust this amount of fines, which is in the current proposal and already essentially in that law of CZK 3 million, as the Minister of the Interior mentioned, to CZK 500,000, CZK 1 million, or CZK 2 million. We would vote gradually from the lowest to the highest. In essence, if none of these amounts were accepted, the amount which is in the present law remains. And then there is Mr Feri's amendment, who has read it, but it is a joint proposal by Mr Feri, Mr Vácha and Mr Válek, who is under House document 7071 when it concerns two points, if I may, in a nutshell, those students who are ordered to work under the law. And we can vote these two proposals with one vote because they are not excluded. Then we would vote the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u47	Okay, thank you. It's a procedure proposal. Does anyone have an alternative to the procedure for voting? It's not like that. We will decide on the procedure for voting in the order number 18 that I have launched, and I ask who agrees with the voting procedure proposed by the rapporteur. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 18 of the 99 for 97 present, against no one. This procedure has been approved. We can therefore proceed to the first amendment, i.e. the committee proposal. Mr rapporteur, your position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u48	The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u49	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the 19-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 19 of 99 present 93 pros, against no one. The motion has been approved. Second draft?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u50	The second proposal is an alternative solution to the amount of fines pursuant to § 34a. The Committee on Security did not deal with this because it was read here in plenary. The first vote is that this fine would not be CZK 3 million, but CZK 500,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u51	Minister's opinion? [[Disagree.]] I've started a 20-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 20 of 97 present for 41, against 5. The motion was not accepted. Second draft? Sorry, rapporteur, the chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u52	I still tolerated the procedure. I would ask the acting chairman of the ANO club to compare the number of votes. He can't vote 40.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u53	Now you're not questioning the vote? You're questioning the vote, okay. Mr. Chairman, you've got me in a lot of trouble. I understand that, but the right to oppose the outcome of the electronic record of the outcome of the vote has been given by the person who voted in some way and his vote is recorded differently than his will. So now we have to summon someone who's applying. A colleague of Feranec's reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The result of the vote does not correspond to my will, I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u55	Now it's good. I thank my colleague Feranc. And, of course, under the Rules of Procedure Act, the reservation against the registration of the outcome of Feranc's vote is a reason for the House to decide whether to accept this reservation in vote number 21. Who is in favour of accepting a reservation against the minutes of the outcome of the vote? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 21. Of the 98th for 93, against no one. We will therefore repeat the vote on the proposal under House document 7068, in the vote number 22, which I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 22. Of the 94 present for 41 Members, against 4. The motion was denied. We'll continue with the second proposal, the alternative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u56	Yes, the second proposal, the alternative, is the same thing, § 29 paragraph 9, the amount of one million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u57	Yes, we'll decide in the number 23 vote that I... [[Disagree.]] Sorry, I didn't let the Minister express himself. I declare vote number 23 misguided, and I will put you all out. I'm gonna ask you all for a new registration, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, I'm gonna ask the Minister for an opinion. The Committee did not deliver an opinion on this, given that the proposal was only submitted at second reading in a short hearing. Mr. Secretary, opinion. [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 24 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 24. Of the 90 present for 38, versus 2. The motion was also rejected. Third draft?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u58	The third proposal is basically about the same thing, except the amount of the fine of CZK 2 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u59	Okay. Opinion, Minister? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number twenty-five, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 25. Of the 91 Members present for 39, against 2. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the last proposal tabled by Mr Feri, and this is House document 7071.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u60	Here are two points concerning students, as the speaker has already mentioned in the detailed debate, two points that we can vote with one vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u61	Yes, we approved that. Mr. Secretary, an opinion? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 26 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 26. Out of 94 present for 77, against no one. The motion was accepted. This has exhausted all the amendments. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u62	Yes, Mr President. Now we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-002-002.u63	I'm convinced of that, too. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 243/2020 Coll., on the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic, according to the House press 1111, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Crisis law]] I've started voting number 27 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 27. Of the 96 Members present for 53, against 27. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, the rapporteur, and I conclude item number two of this meeting. At the same time, I note that we have discussed the entire approved programme of the 76th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I conclude with this. Under the responsibility of the President, I note that we will meet tomorrow at a meeting convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the request of more than 40 Members, at a meeting which we generally call the anti-corruption package. Thank you and I wish you a peaceful good night.
