ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u1	501. Information of the Government on the disease COVID-19 I assume Roman Prymula will speak for the Czech Government, and I will give him his opening word. I already have two written applications with priority rights for MPs, and the discussion agreement has been concluded. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. I will allow myself a brief summary of the current situation of COVID-19 infection, both dominantly from the Czech point of view and, of course, from the point of view of the surrounding countries. At this point, we are at a time when there is practically an exponential increase in a number of European countries, and the situation is relatively similar in these countries. As far as the outside world is concerned, at this point, the situation is more favourable especially in Asia. Indeed, the peak incidence is in Europe. The situation in our Republic is not simple. We're in a phase where there's still an increase. And what's probably key is three such basic negative factors that we still have a relatively sharp increase in infected people, which, when we take a reproductive number, somewhere between 1.37 and 1.47, means still relatively rapid growth. What is combined with this reproductive number is a very unpleasant factor, a large number of positives. This means, even if the reproductive number is downloaded in some way to 1.1, there will still be a relatively large increase, which will logically threaten our hospitalization capacity. And the last such a negative factor is that we have recently had this disease in vulnerable groups of seniors, and it is with them that the clusters are developing. It is clear from this that all the steps we are trying to take should lead us to be able to actually reduce both the reproductive number and the large charge in the population. And the fact that the charge at this point is really significant, that documentes the number of positive tests per test count. We've gotten from the value of somewhere at 4-5 percent, up to the values that are close to 30 percent, and these are, of course, numbers that mean that we're detecting the tip of the iceberg right now, but there's already a much bigger charge in the population than originally estimated. The data indicates that there's a high percentage of people responsible for community transfer because we don't see them logically. On the other hand, what is positive has increased dramatically in the system's capacity lately. You know we're getting close to 40,000 tests. And the fact that we're about 30,000 now is true. On the other hand, even with these numbers, the percentage of positiveity remains still high. These are factors that really deserve enormous attention. And we, as we have introduced measures in those past days and weeks, still do not see the positive impact of going down, and it is not so much about the specific increases, because we have to take peak values between Tuesday and Friday, but in particular that the percentage of the difference between those positively detected and all the tests would fall. This means that it is clear that we must perceive the capacity we have in our hospital facilities. And here we need to realize that this capacity has some limits, even if the capacity has been dramatically increased. We increased them by really taking stock of beds, by using a phenomenon that is undoubtedly negative, but in this we have an advantage over other countries, because as the beds gradually decreased in some hospitals, so the beds were negotiated away from the insurance company, but somewhere they remained physically. This means that this capacity is of course involved at the moment, there is a rather intensive plan for the restructuring of bed care so that the non-acute performances are postponed and instead there is the possibility to implement hospitalization of persons who will use it in connection with the covid. Here we are able to generate 10 to 12,000 beds, which means, that's not the basic problem. The basic problem is care at the level of intensive care units and units on fans, where, of course, the capacity is limited. And even if we're shopping at this point - and I'm going to have to apologize after this exhibition because we're trying to buy another 2,000 oxygenators and other fans about 500 to adapt the capacity in a maximum way to that requirement. As far as the current state of knowledge is concerned, it turns out that the oxygenator is a significantly more advantageous device, because it gives a much better chance to patients who require oxygen to not get into the phase of the fans, because artificial pulmonary ventilation is no longer a fully beneficial factor that we perceive in the individual patients. This means, of course, the capacities that are such can be the limit of the people we are going to receive into the system, and it can be said that somewhere between November 3rd and November 11th, we will actually be approaching the peak requirements for the system, which, according to some scenarios, range between 9,000 and 11,000 beds of standard or oxygen beds, and somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 beds of intensive care, that is for particularly heavy patients. It is clear from this that we really need to follow these measures very closely. And I would really advocate that the measures that have been implemented should be followed, because we see that it is not, and that makes sense that we will probably have to introduce more stringent measures to the government, because at this point when we monitor mobility, which we are able to do relatively easily thanks to operators, as they follow this mobility, it turns out that mobility is somewhere between 30 and 50 percent of what was in March. The closure. That means there are still too many contacts and the measures are not always effective. Thank you for your attention. And I want to say that it really is necessary for these measures to be implemented, because we don't have much time and basically the top capacity that we can hardly influence anymore, because there's a time of 10 to 14 days here, we're supposed to get to the top of the list, as I said, sometime on November 11th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Roman Prymul. And I am opening up a debate in which I have, pursuant to Paragraph 58 (1) of the Treaty, 3 registered first to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and Mrs Olga Richterová, in this order. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Industry and Transport and Minister of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. We have included the Government's Information on Covide Disease, and the Minister of Health has left after his opening words and he has other matters to deal with. I would expect the first Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Central Crisis Staff, Minister Hamáček, to be here as well, but he is also quarantined, or he is quarantined, so he cannot be present, so I don't know who to talk to, basically, some of the things we should discuss here, or whether it's just that we're testifying here, but it's not going to go anywhere. I will allow you to return to the past shortly. It hasn't been that long, it's only been four months since I performed here on 16 June this year and I tried to ask you to include the House Press No. 862, which is a government bill on public procurement. At that moment, I warned you that, as at the time of the end of a member of the Central Crisis Staff under the KSČM, I questioned the possibility of how the government would be able to purchase any protective equipment for a possible second wave of covid. I drew attention to the problems that there are, with the government adopting a resolution and saying that it should buy material reserves under the Public Procurement Act. [[15.50 hours]] At that point, I pointed out to you that this law is not entirely flexible and that there might be a situation where it will take months of order. And you know that competing under this law is a question, let's say, 12, 15, 16 months. We talked about the volume of purchases for CZK 4 billion. I assessed the situation and said that I would like us not to make it to autumn, when the second wave will come and catch us unprepared, when there will be one or two pallets in the back of the state reserves, as it was at the beginning of this year, when the crisis caught us very unprepared. Then came the problems that were with purchases from China, quality and poor quality, that here was evaluated and still will be evaluated or evaluated. I have warned you about this several times, and I have asked you to address this point because it was a government bill and we could discuss it. We discussed it in a group of Members across the political spectrum and in preparation in the Committee on Security, where we felt it was also a matter of endangering the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. Well, you know, it turned out the way it did. As usual, only one member of the YES movement voted in favour of this item on 16 June 2020, Dr Mašek, who is also a co-president of the amendment, so he knew very well what was going on. One of the 78 members of the ANO movement. None of the ODS, none of the Pirates, none of the SPD, none of the Czech Social Democratic Party, 13 KSČM Members, 7 KDU-ČSL Members, 6 members of the TOP 09 and 1 Member of the STAN. Not one of the unattended, either. So for the proposal, we only got 28 votes out of those 140 or 160, how many of us were there back then. We, on the basis of the fact that you did not want to do so, like that group of Members Ondráček, Mašek, Koten and Mr Birke, have finally drawn up a parliamentary bill with which the Minister for Regional Development has also cooperated, where we have submitted a separate law that would allow the state reserves of one-off purchases. This is what we have put forward in the Chamber of Deputies on 26 June 2020, which means 10 days after you have refused to deal with this. On June 26, 2020, we brought it here, and we wanted the state's material reserves to be able to buy and prepare for a possible second wave. Again, you have basically, or again, the government has almost laughed at us, although I must admit that the government has dealt with the parliamentary proposal quite quickly in a month and has given a neutral opinion on this law on July 25, 2020. It was, of course, a parliamentary holiday, a government holiday, and no one has dealt with it. And there was a second wave. I don't know how many pallets of protective equipment are crouched. In any case, the government has already changed its resolution and has told the state's material reserves not to buy on the basis of a tender, no matter what other way it buys, especially whatever there is. Well, it's hard to buy in any other way, since the tender, the tender, the open contract. So came the time when we declared an emergency - the government declared, we didn't, the government declared it. And now he can buy again in another way. So I'm asking if the whole thing was worth it. If the government doesn't want to listen to what we can talk about here, people who may even understand a little security issues. And there were several of us members of the Central Crisis Staff who pointed out the problems. The Central Crisis Staff also pointed out that. But the government was on its way anyway. We know best, we best present everything, we don't need you to advise us, or we have our own solution. Your own solution to what? No solution of your own! We are just now at a stage where we learn about the situation - and I thank the Minister of Health, who has informed us very well about the situation. Yes, we're on the verge of strength. The paramedics are, I don't know, maybe one of the paramedics that you're sitting in front of me - infected by about 7,000 today, maybe in quarantine. They're doctors, of course, middle medical personnel. A number of hospitals are calling for help from former nurses, former health professionals, to return doctors from abroad, who are tens and hundreds abroad, perhaps thousands who have graduated from the Czech Republic for taxpayers' money and now prefer to work abroad. And how much did the Government of the Czech Republic respond to the challenge? I heard 14 yesterday! Fourteen out of hundreds or thousands of health professionals, doctors who have studied for taxpayers' money, work abroad, so 14 are willing to return to the Czech Republic and help the Czech Republic. We also ask the countries of the European Union to help us. We can remember how the Němec stole our medical material, which landed in Hamburg or Germany, and was due to arrive in the Czech Republic at the beginning of the year and did not arrive. Today, we're asking someone to provide us with support for breathing fans, yes fans and other things. Will somebody help us? As the Czech Republic, how did we react when the Ital asked for our help to send doctors, paramedics, military doctors to Italy when they had a problem? Well, we didn't send them there. Finally, Russia flew in and helped them out of the biggest crisis of the military doctors of the Russian Federation. So I'm asking, do we have it all worked out so perfectly? When I ask myself some questions today and ask myself some questions, because we have asked ourselves several times through the leadership of our party so that we can have representation again on the Central Crisis Staff. I asked my colleagues from KDU-ČSL today if they had a colleague there, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, and my colleague replied that they didn't either. So I ask, why is the Central Crisis Staff so afraid that we can sit and listen to the Central Crisis Staff meeting again with our colleague Kaňkovský or others? On behalf of the Civil Democratic Party, Senator Martin Červíček, former Police President, was there. These are all people who would be able to contribute with their knowledge or expertise to the Central Crisis Staff to address some of the everyday issues that were discussed there. Just like the health crisis is happening today, and when paramedics, as they say, are going 110 percent, and they've got, say, quite a lot of it, in many places, soldiers, firemen, so I'm asking how long we don't want to last? Police, because you know that my specialty is the security forces, so the police are down to 3.5,000 police officers on the charts. There's more than a thousand of them in quarantine today, maybe the number's already considerably higher, so there's between 4.5 and 5,000 policemen missing for the day's performance. Instead of being able to do what they're supposed to do, they have to chase protestors around the Old Man and summon policemen from all regional administrations to help their Prague colleagues from a special order unit. You know, some things I don't understand at all. Why is the Central Crisis Staff and the government doing this? Why, for example, do firefighters have to do all the supplies they deliver? Why? If we really don't know what we're supposed to do, we're gonna plant firemen? Fire department can do anything because she's a whore for everything. Or an army. But why can't we use, for example, a private transporter who, on the basis of another government resolution, is being paid for lost wages and lost earnings? Would they take it so badly? Can't we give the contract, the delivery of the material, to private carriers instead of paying them back? And we can save those firemen for things that are more sensitive and important. Does the government really do everything so perfectly? I don't think so. And here's a lot of things that we learn about what's supposed to work. And thanks to the Minister of Health, we hear that the situation is very complicated and the reproductive number is at 1.4. And if we don't stop him, there might be a much more difficult situation. I ask, when the fire department is finished in quarantines, and also that there aren't very few when the police officers of the Czech Republic end up in quarantines, and I personally know that some departments are already closing down because there is no one to serve there, so I ask, how long are we going to do this? Who are we gonna send in then? [[16.00 hours]] The army will build a hospital, a field hospital, but there must be some personnel there. The staff that works at the Faculty Hospital in Hradec Králové in normal activity because you as a patient don't care if you're being treated by a doctor or a soldier. And I remember when I was in trauma at the faculty hospital when I was treated by a doctor and a nurse were soldiers. We're gonna call them today, okay, maybe they'll be at the fairground, maybe somewhere else. But logically, they're gonna be missing out there in their home hospital. So we may have material, maybe we'll bring some material, maybe we'll buy some material, but the most important thing we have is human resources, which we don't appreciate at all. Where we can replace them with any other force, we waste our strength and resources, for example, those firefighters delivering material and other things. You know, I'd really like the government to stop playing the part where just because someone's a minister, they're the smartest people on this planet. And they could, they could also listen to people who are in opposition, whether this is a colleague of Vít Kaňkovský or a colleague of Martin Červíček, or I, when I was a member of the Central Crisis Staff. I think in the spring part we were able to prove that even some of our ideas could have their ratio. Let's pull together, 'cause that's the problem with all of us. It's not just a government problem. But the government should also listen to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u5	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, Marian Jurečka will be prepared, then Mrs Adamová Pekarová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u6	Thank you for your word. It is a great pity that not only is the Minister of Health here, but also the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister. I would very much like us to be able to get the answers, the relevant answers to our questions. The public who can publicly monitor this record would also deserve this. However, before I get to the general topic of coronavirus and ask the questions we have for the Pirates, and the two motions for resolutions that we have already announced and handed out to our fellow Members, the chairmen of the MPs here, I would like to make one more point. I was very surprised to hear what Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, my previous speaker, said about deliveries from Germany. Because in a number of cases, so-called shipments seized in Germany have been shown to be alarm messages. In a number of cases, it turns out it wasn't true. So I would really like to check whether, in this case, the colleague has really verified information, because there are also traceable statements from the German customs administration that this has not happened. Indeed, colleagues and colleagues, we may need the help of German neighbors, and therefore, at least from this, let's say, selfish point of view, it would be unwise to spread such information if it were not true. Now I would like to get to the point and prepare for what the Minister for Health has outlined, what we will have to do together as a country. He clearly said the problem wouldn't be beds, it wouldn't be that the patients had nowhere to lie, but the problem would be who would take care of them. And I wanted to ask how practical coordination, practical helping, encouraging, motivating nurses and doctors on parental leave were doing. This is quite a large group, where there would be a great chance with properly selected bonuses of financial, well-equipped babysitting and even other practical support of the type of help, with the provision of food for the household and the like, that these women would be willing - they are mostly women - to help out. I stress that people on maternity and parental matters are not related to work obligations. That's why this is the subject. And the motivation has to be positive, and it has to be a really clear challenge. So this would be my question of practically ensuring that there are qualified staff at the beds. The second question was about the Minister's models. Because it was actually presented that it assumed entitlement to the health system around 11,000 beds at the beginning of November. Thanks to the fact that we have succeeded in finally having relatively complete data for several days, we are modeling the situation, and yes, that is the case. But the predictions show at the same time that if the spread of the disease doesn't really slow down, then the difficulty, the impact on the overloading of the system will rise after the first week of November. And that's the question I have for the Minister. Whether the models he works with show the need to limit personal contacts at the level of the spring lockdown or not. That's what it's based on. After that, the practical proposals would still be accepted by the fact that Pack Research's research shows that only 10 percent of people were working from home in October at the beginning of October. That would be another question not only for the Minister of Health, but also for the Prime Minister, as he examines whether, at least, the state authorities, the state organisations to which they have a direct relationship, encourage their employees to work from home. Although the Ministry of Labour carried out extensive research on how it worked in the spring and what satisfaction it is. I can stress that large. With work from home to a number of professions in the state administration it is easy to do. But there is no way to see a rope into practice right now that systematically all the authorities, all the branches of the state where it can be done, I'm talking about ministries, various regional agencies, branches and even the labour inspectorate, there are really many where home offices, work from home, support. This will be the subject of the first resolution, which I will read for our parliamentary club, and I will ask for its support. The point is - we propose: "The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to check that all employees of state authorities and companies, with whom it is only a little possible, are working from home." It would be a practical measure once again to help prevent the spread of the epidemic. And the last resolution I would like to read concerns us as the Chamber of Deputies, how we operate. As we sit here, we pose a relatively significant epidemiological risk by infecting each other. There's a great risk that we'll be quarantined after that, we won't be able to get a conviction. I would therefore like to ask you, my colleagues, to set up a quick working group with the representation of all the Members' clubs and to prepare, in cooperation with our legislative and organisational department, an amendment to the House's Rules of Procedure Act. A novel that would allow a distant way of acting and voting for the House's plenary. Only during an emergency caused by an epidemiological situation. Of course, so that it is limited to such and similar situations as regards health threats to public health. I submit this request with the knowledge that there is a study of the Parliamentary Institute of Constitutional and Legal Aspects of distant negotiations and voting. It's for downloading publicly. And there is the most discussed topic that in our Constitution means the definition of presence at the House meeting. It is clear to me that this will also be discussed in the working group. But I would like to point out that the authorities, which are not so explicitly mentioned, have adjusted the presence in the Rules of Procedure to remote online negotiations. And I consider it appropriate that, in a situation where other parliaments are handling it, the European Parliament is handling it, at least checking it out. For me, the interpretation of that term is possible so that there is no need to change the Constitution. [[16.10 hours]] So, in summary, it is very important for us to learn the answers to how the state will support practically those medical professionals who are available but are on maternity or parental leave. Second, how the state predicts development. We would really like clear answers to the different scenarios according to the government's model, even in connection with the compliance with the measures, so that we can see the impact of the individual measures. Third, whether government officials, where it's only a little bit possible, are at home office, working from home. They're also state-owned companies. Fourthly, I would have one more request, and it is possible to find out a number of documents, when the Prime Minister was actually mitigating the seriousness of the situation in September, at a time when we were already a little bit on the alert for the pirát, and on September 13th he showed graphics about how mortality continues to decline. And my request would be to assess how to help people trust and keep the measures by saying, I think, apologize for these things. I think that would be very helpful, too. Of course, that's a challenge I can only make like this, but it's up to someone else to make that decision. I thank you for your attention, and in a detailed debate I will then read the detailed wording of these resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u7	Thank you, Madame, but in a detailed debate in this resolution, check out the proposal which must be in line with the principle of division of power. Now, then, President Marian Jurečka, my colleague Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, fellow Members, I must say that I am sorry that there is no Minister of Health or more members of the government, that there is only the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice at such a crucial point in this situation, in which we are like the Czech Republic. I don't know if the Minister here has at least his people and he'll come to the conclusion of the debate to sum up some things and answer what I'm asking, not just me, and I'll ask questions, but also my previous speakers and those who will speak even further. I'm also going to base my appreciation on the fact that this point is here. I would like to thank those members of the government who have shown a certain degree of self-criticism, whether the minister who took over the relay, Minister Prymula, or Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček, or Minister of Culture, Minister Zaorálek. Appreciate it. It is not a gesture to us politicians, but if they can acknowledge some degree of misconduct, it is more a gesture to all the people in this country who will now have to deal with the situation in the coming weeks and manage it. What Minister Prymula said, I'd like to ask him, if you don't mind. When he was talking about the border numbers, he listed the number of beds that will be needed in the coming weeks at the turn of October and early November, so if there is such an analysis at the Ministry of Health as well as in relation to staff. Because we know that in some areas of health care, the staff, especially nurses, who serve beds with pulmonary ventilation, are very difficult to replace. So whether they have the personnel capacity calculated, or whether they tried to activate, for example, those nurses who are on parental or maternity leave or those who have recently retired. If from these, let's say, reserves, we're able to boost the personnel system so that we can handle it. It is one thing that we will be able to supplement the number of beds in some way and we will also have secured not only their oxygenation or ventilation. But from all sides, we as politicians hear that the narrowest throat is going to be in the personnel area. So my question to Minister Prymula is, how are we in terms of readiness in terms of the personnel question? I would, of course, be happy to comment also on the issue of the capacity building of the military hospital in Letňany. I don't question it at all. We're just hearing a lot of critical knowledge from the level of medical personnel that works in these hospitals in Prague, but also in other parts of the Republic, that this seems to them, given that the staff will be missing, as a thing that is not the most essential. So if the Minister could comment on that, too. I'm impressed by his statement that he says we're close to 40,000 tests a day. When I looked at the last seven days, the average number of tested is 29,741. So I just want to correct it a little bit. But my key question is, where are we on tracking? Are we prosecuting at this moment and after the interventions that we have conducted in recent weeks as well as during the videoconferencing last week, which was led by the Prime Minister along with some selected members of the government and us as representatives of the parties in the House, are we already able to track this moment in the Czech Republic? Or is it still too late? Because I have information from people from practice that tracking just doesn't run in real time, some aren't contacted at all, or with a few days' delay. So, unfortunately, the situation in this area has not been improved from what I hear from practice. So please, if the Minister could also comment on the question of tracing. How much capacity has been increased, how many of these contacts are called every day, so that we know whether it's a move forward or not. Then I would have a great request here for colleagues and colleagues who are members of the Health Committee, especially for Madam President, if the Health Committee could have enough time for its meetings at these critical moments. In order not to be a health committee, which will take place in an hour, an hour and a half, when there is no room for discussion, because I think that the topics, which, for example, a colleague of Vítek Kaňkovský, are serious. In this context, I also want to ask the Minister how the issue of the legal responsibility of health personnel is addressed. Because now, these days, the capacity of beds is being created, taking into account the technical possibilities of individual workplaces in the hospital and in the workplaces, where the medical staff does not have the competence and specialization to take care of these covido patients. These people, of course, with some will and commitment, if necessary, will do so. But please, nicely, if the Ministry of Health intends to cover this situation by legislative means, so that these people do not expose themselves or the health facility to any possible sanctions, sanctions or the like. So please give a nice answer to the question of how it's gonna be with the legal responsibility of the medical staff where those people are gonna do something that they don't specialize in, they don't have the expertise, but they're gonna try to do the best they can to make sure that the health system doesn't handle it in the next few weeks. Then I also have a question as to whether the Minister and the Ministry are also addressing the issue that does not seem to be so up-to-date at this point, but will be up-to-date by the end of the year, and that is the question of health care payments. Because by having to interrupt the planned medical procedures in most cases, the health facility will, of course, have large income losses and will have to deal with its claims. And of course it will also affect the founders, which are in many cases regions, it is a state and it is possibly also cities in the Czech Republic. So please also answer the question of whether by the end of the year the Ministry of Health, or the government, is going to move forward in some way. Then, if I may, I have a question about the Prime Minister or Vice Prime Minister Havlíček or Minister Petříček. I would like to ask, then, when a group of senators headed by President Vystrčil was visiting Taiwan, and then, even from Taiwan, the gift of five lines for making masks was said, what is now the situation where we will be able to bring this gift to the Czech Republic and when the production of this protective health material can be practically started. Because I have information that if these lines were in the Czech Republic and were to go, it would cover all the consumption of the drapes we need for health and social services in the Czech Republic. And I'm sure it's a small savings. So I want to ask the government how it works and when we can expect these lines to arrive in the Czech Republic. Then I would also have a question as to whether the government is planning certain assistance to companies in terms of increasing the protection of their workers. This means some support either financial or material in terms of disinfection, thermometers, temperature measurement, or other protective equipment. I think it would help a lot even here if we could reduce the risk of the transmission of the covid to people who are going to work to the highest possible low level. [[16.20 hours]] And I am also heading to the social care sector for the special categories of my questions, whether, in some way, the question of coordination is also addressed, for example, by students who now have a work obligation, even in relation to social care providers, because we have information across the Republic that there are facilities, whether they are residential, stone hospices and the like, but also by those who provide the field service, which are in a situation where they run out of personnel capacity. Not everywhere it's possible to cover it with an army and somewhere they're told to take care of how they can. But those directors or directors are getting into a pretty desperate situation. So if this is what the Minister, or Madam Secretary, I understand that he can't be here, he's dealing in some way, and he's offering some kind of help to this sector. And the final area of my questions is going to see if the government is planning any assistance towards social welfare providers, for example, in the forgiveness of at least part of the employee contributions, at least now for the period of October, November, December, because even these providers will face a lack of funds. It has already been known in recent months that the funds provided under the state budget, as well as what may have been financed by the regions, will not be enough for them. So if the government is not also looking for a way to help through this forgiveness tool at least partially with contributions for employees who are currently providing assistance in social services to patients with covid. It should be noted that one visit of a worker or social service worker in a covideo patient stands at the cost of medical protective equipment, such as a cloak, gloves, drapes and the like, even an amount of 700 crowns, and if it must be necessary for some patients up to three times a day, it is already an amount that is quite significant. So many of my questions. I don't want to be confrontational at all, I'm not bringing up a debate about who did what and when should have done it and everything. I think the time will come sometime in the future. At this point, we're really at a very critical stage. We offer maximum cooperation with the government of the Czech Republic, individual experts, from our people, who may still be active in this area and are here in the House or in the Senate or at the edges, have experience. I would very much like the Prime Minister to make another video call this week, as it was last week, because the situation is shifting. We would also like to be able to answer the citizens if, at some point, this week, if the numbers do not start to fall from Tuesday, from Wednesday, that is, we will see it on Wednesday morning, Thursday morning, there are plans for further tightening up. The Minister has indicated something here, but if, perhaps, certain values could be said, at what values, if any, will be further measures that we can expect, and in what areas. So thank you so much for saying this here, and I would be very happy if the Minister could come back, or someone on behalf of the members of the government can answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u9	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. I'm gonna ask my colleague Markéta Adamová Pekarová to wait. Although we agreed that this would be without factual remarks, the President of the Trikolóra movement also asked for a performance as another political entity in the House, but with a factual remark. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will leave a factual point to Mr Václav Klaus and then we will proceed in order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry. I had no idea, so I applied for a factual remark. I'll be very short. I just wanted to respond to the previous speaker, Mrs Richterová, with her proposal that the House would meet for security reasons from home. I find it absolutely unbelievable. I get letters every day from the kindergarten teachers, and like where half of their staff stayed at home with their children, they're on their own, they have to clean, they have their own children at home. Of course, we see not only doctors, but a lot of people who go to work, you get a tram and so on, and the idea that we're not going to work feels like we're from Mars. If you have such health concerns, give up your mandate, that can be done here in two seconds, and you can go home and pack in plastic, but we will certainly not support such a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u11	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u12	I'll be quick, colleague. I would only react briefly to Mrs Richterová. You're right, after you got off, I looked into social media, I came out of information from Mrs. Central Bohemia Governor - what's her name, I can't remember now. So I take it back, thank you. My colleague, I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u13	Thank you. This has exhausted the factual points, and President Pekarová Adamová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u14	I would like to begin by thanking the honourable Government, Madam Members, the honourable public, for having been put at the meeting at all today, for getting more luck than, for example, the point proposed by Mrs Langšádlová, even if this was the implementation of the resolution, but it is finally an opportunity to talk about the current situation. At the same time, however, I regret that Minister Prymula did not stay here for the whole debate, because I too will have a number of questions, and I would like us to have answers for them as well. I think that the basis for dealing with the situation is the same as it was in the spring to follow the measures that are ordered, and just as in the spring, I will allow myself to ask citizens here from this place to approach the regulations and measures that apply today with all humility and respect and to actually respect them. You all know that, even in March, when the situation was even more calm than it is today, we called for this as an opposition, and we were completely united with you as a government, to calm the public, that the situation could be handled, but that there is a need for caution and responsibility for each of us. Therefore, please make sure that any of these measures and regulations are annoying enough, or they may have a liquidation character for the livelihood of many of our fellow citizens to respect them. At the same time, however, it is important exactly what Mrs Langšádlová mentioned here and what we call for in the long term: that the government communicates clearly and unitedly. The clear and understandable communication is a complete basis for people to trust not only the government, but in general the state, to be clear that when something is ordered, when necessary measures are taken, it has its reasons, it has its meaning, it has great meaning. That is why I want to take this opportunity to appeal again to the adoption of a clear communication strategy. I am sorry that Minister Prymula did not use his opening words to give us precisely from the implementation of the resolution that we adopted here at the end of September, which had its date of fulfillment already on 15 October, to tell us how his ministry stood up to him and what better to do for the communication to be. I am convinced of this, and I said it here in March - I even looked it up in the screen record, if I don't remember it wrong, I don't remember it wrong, I really said it here in March, and I said it in the negotiations that we had with the Prime Minister and the ministers at the time - that it is the easiest to do one simple website. On those websites, there should be both information on what measures are currently in force, their more detailed explanation of the understandable language that will be understood by everyone, not by an official resolution that is often very difficult to understand, and at the same time that there will be an area that concerns those economic measures, the compensation for what people are entitled to. In all these areas, people don't know, and that's also a stumbling block, and that's the basic problem. If we had a chance to refer all those who are writing to us, and I believe that all of you have a number of questions in your e-mail boxes, but also in other communication channels from citizens, what they actually have to do, what measures they need to do, or what help, compensation may apply to them when they are in this particular situation, it would help us all if we could refer them to one single travel site, where the information would be completely mentioned. [[16.30 hours]] I don't understand. I really don't understand what kind of trouble it's been since March. You have all the means to do so to devote some of the funds that would be needed to do this, and then to promote the existence of such an information platform. You have the opportunity to continue spreading it through all possible channels, including social networks. People don't have to rely on them to look it up on the pages of government, individual ministries, hygiene, and other state authorities. [[Increased voice:]] I mean, that's the whole point! And I'm so upset about how so many months in this simple area have been wasted, wasted, and nothing has changed here! Things come from the bottom. People start creating these web addresses on their own. But it's not possible for us to rely on people for this basic thing. Just like they made their drapes, I'm sure they won't program the websites on which this information would be complete. And the fact that we have one website that has data in terms of the number of infected and tested and so on, that's a nice thing, but that's not what I mean. It's not about that. There really is a simple signpost. Please be inspired abroad. I think the way a simple A4 operating in Ireland or in other countries, where people, even with pictograms, see clearly what the situation must be, how many people can meet and so on, would be a good example. We don't have to invent a bike. So this is the first appeal, a request. And it is part of the resolution that we have adopted here and which is to be implemented. It's not for fun for rabbits. Another of those things that also concern information and communication to the government are disinformation, hoaxes, and many of these things that move in public space, and on which more and more society unfortunately hears. It is not only a phenomenon of the Czech Republic, it is happening elsewhere. But it is necessary to work actively with it and actively try to disprove and not take the whole area lightly. I'm asking you again. And if in Mr Prymula's speech, which he had a few days ago, follow my twitter, I would like to remind him that there are about 10,5 million of us, more than 10,5 million people in the Czech Republic, and Twitter uses about 400,000 people. I think we all agree that having this platform here as a basic information source is completely irrelevant and inappropriate. This is my reservation, my complaint. I repeat once again: one simple website that will be clear, understandable and will contain everything. Another thing that undermines the trust of a large part of society, and I think it ends then with protests that we can't take far from being just hooligans who come to the Old Town Square to get rid of, so there is already a huge frustration in a large part of the population from the economic impacts that they feel today and daily on their own. What is supposed to come as a basis, and this is an appeal especially to Minister Havlíček, so if restrictions are imposed on a living, for some it is also leisure activity, for others it is his source of income, whatever it is in the area, then the same day at the same press conference is to be said: and since we realize that we are reducing your income by doing this, we are helping you this way and this is how specifically we are helping you. Not as a promise: we'll sort it out in the future. Not as a vague thing in the sense: yes, we will deal with it, it is also important, but please close your businesses now. I think a large part of the frustration and anger in society also implies that these things don't go hand in hand at the same time. And this, in my opinion, is the basic aspect of not losing confidence in these people, but in order for them to know that yes, it is necessary to give in, it is necessary to stop doing business for a while, and it is necessary to deal with how I quickly do it with the employees, how I do it with the supplies they have in the restaurants, how I do with the specific other costs I have with it, but hand in hand with that I know yes, the state won't let me down. And if these people don't know that, then believe that a large part of them lose their trust in all the other measures we have here, starting with cloaks and others. This also needs to be changed, improved. And if there is to be any further economic constraints, I warn you that this was therefore a big mistake and it is necessary to learn from it. As far as the lockdown is concerned, this topic is constantly bowing down here in public space for the last few days, so I would like to ask Minister Prymula if it is really in play, in what form would they possibly consider. Because he's not a lockdown like a lockdown. In the spring, we did not actually have a complete closure of the economy because many companies continued to function. We had the closure of services in particular. In addition to closed bars and restaurants, which are closed even now, or theatres, cinemas and other similar cultural events, there was also closed part of services such as hairdressing. We all remember the short hair we used to walk around here with this beet on our heads. So in that way, of course, we can repeat either spring, or we can go through different scenarios. As early as September, I warned here about the Israeli script. And unfortunately, it comes back to the words that have been said here that if we don't do anything, it will happen spontaneously. But the fact that one minister is talking about "maybe we'll deal with it next week" means this week that we're living here, and the other minister is disproved, so once again, there's a very bad example of communication, but at the same time, there's enormous uncertainty in society. And really, people are really desperate for that to happen. So it should be quite clear here, at what specific figures, at which particular indicators the government is prepared for what specific version of the lockdown, what it would look like, what specific would contain and what would have to happen to make it happen. That's the basis, the script we're always asking of you here. So once again, I ask and I ask that we have the information, so that we have the public in particular, so that we know that when we follow the indicator, and I don't know if it's going to be an erko, or whether it's going to be the number of infected or the number of serious cases, or whether it's going to be the number of those hospitalized, or whether it's going to be the number of medical personnel that's going down, so what's going to be specific, or which of those indicators that we're going to get through the combination that it's inevitable. Just as we have a whole range of other proposals and come up with them practically since spring, so we have come up with a proposal to solve hospital care, to reserve so-called covideo hospitals, those smaller hospitals, in each region at least one, depending on the size of the region, it depends on the need, and the preservation of those center hospitals for the other care that is needed. People haven't stopped having cancer. People haven't stopped having heart attacks. People need more care. And limiting this type of care is, of course, a huge risk to everyone, to the whole society. We think that the plan that we would remove the large, mostly faculty hospitals from the covid solution and move these patients to smaller hospitals and turn them into covideo hospitals, covideo workplaces, would help to maintain the widest possible care, the one specialized, which must not be stopped either because of their personnel equipment or their technical and other equipment. It is necessary to save other lives that are not at risk of covid, but of other diseases and other complications. I think we all realize that we need to be able to live here with the covid, not just this week and the next, but a few months, and that this needs to be dealt with even in the perspective of those future months that await us, when the covid definitely doesn't disappear, and the vaccine isn't fully in sight yet. So this is our cue. And I would like to know the opinion of Minister Prymula, because I think in those plans to establish whether in the form of a military hospital or other such emergency beds we forget about the possibility of splitting hospitals into two types. As well as the involvement of the spa is definitely in the game, because we know how they fought the vacancy there. And on the one hand, the staff is more qualified than we often can get to other facilities. And that's why we think it would be the treatment at the spa, or virtually. The spa could have been involved in the system as well. [[16.40 hours]] So much for the current proposals that need to be dealt with for us, with a number of questions being raised here on my part. Once again, I would like to remind you that in the spring - and I am following up on one of the previous speakers - we have dealt with a number of suggestions and materials that we had here. Let us remember that we also proposed a committee of inquiry to deal with the purchase of protective equipment that was here in the spring under very wild conditions, that billions were flying here, and then you rejected it as government parties and did not want any of us to do it, you prevented it because it was enough to solve the SAO. I think that the current situation and the current development are showing and asking for an investigation not in the form of a commission of inquiry, but in the form of an investigation by the police, because who has the responsibility and who bears the responsibility for the decisions that have been made will have to be investigated here. I'm sure there's been enough data and information in the past month about how the situation will develop and that there has not been an adequate response from the government. That's what I don't think we're gonna figure out, even the committee of inquiry, which requires a responsibility that's even higher, and I think that should happen here. However, let's solve some of the more serious problems here, and let's actually solve these casualties, whether on life or economics, so they're not even bigger. You know, we're not perfect, we all make mistakes, but I'm begging you, don't be proud, and when we're giving you recommendations on what else needs to be done or what needs to be improved, don't be deaf, listen and act. We're not doing this to add points here, but we're all doing this to protect our society so we can handle this terrible situation. And we're gonna make it, I'm convinced. But now we're supposed to do everything we can to make it the lowest possible cost, whether on lives or on other losses, including the economic ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u15	So that was Mrs Pekarová Adamová. And since there were questions, I'm gonna keep the order, as I'm supposed to, including the priority rights. But the answers from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Minister of Transport can say now. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u16	Thank you very much. Since I've been called upon to take these economic measures, I'm just going to specify them. It was said that economic measures in the sense of aid should be at the same time as the announcement of some economic restriction. On Wednesday, economic restrictions began to apply, on Wednesday all measures to support entrepreneurs, namely entrepreneurs for restaurants, all other establishments that were closed, in other words isolated, simultaneously support for entrepreneurs in sport, at the same time support for entrepreneurs in culture, at the same time support for entrepreneurs called. long-distance tour transport. All these programs started to pay on the same day. We discussed all these programmes with major business, employers' and professional associations, and there was agreement on them, and I think it is an accurate example of how it should be done. And let me not forgive one more thing. I was there when the global economic crisis took place between 2008 and 2010. At the time, your President was the Minister of Finance. At that time we didn't get a crown, no one dealt with the business unions, their representations. And what we are doing today is absolutely incomparable with how it was communicated and supported at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u17	Well, thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will complete her performance and I will not take that as a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u18	Thank you for the facts. I'm sorry to break the rule, but I can't help but overreact. As for the 2008 economic crisis, which began with the fall of the Lehman Brothers, it certainly was not in the sense: we as a government forbid you, citizens, to earn somewhere, to do business and shut down your establishments. It wasn't like that, so don't make a comparison here that's completely incomparable. At the time, no one was allowed to do business, to make money. That's just to make it sound. You continued to say, on Wednesday, restrictions began to apply. It's not true. The restrictions on opening hours, because it was first until midnight, then by 10:00 p.m., were much earlier. And at that moment for the disabled, for the entrepreneurs, there was no help. So start by saying that you're not going to fix some things and that you're going to paint them more pink than they deserve. And at the same time, please, when you say "the restrictions have started and the programs have started running immediately from that point on," find out your comments from the press conferences that were at that time. And there you said, we'll work on it, the measures will come, the compensation will be. You didn't say: now, this moment runs this and this particular help. That's just the way it was, it's traceable in public resources. And if you don't believe that, then you need to see how the individual disabled businessmen deal with it, how they turn around with the questions. Many of them do not really know this until now, and they do not know what is happening to them and what is not. So the fact that the public is well informed about this is rather than the fact that there's an error on the receiver's side, the error on the transmitter's side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u19	There. I'm tolerance alone. I'll read the order of entries. Now colleague Vít Rakušan, then Radim Fiala, then Martin Kupka. And so far, they're logged in to the debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I would also like to thank you in particular for the inclusion of this item. I would like to thank Minister Prymul for his speech. Of course, we share the sadness with others that we cannot monitor our discussion and some of our questions, which are mainly directed at it at this time, cannot answer personally, but I understand that his workload is enormous at this time, and I hope that we will get to the answers to our questions soon. We really need to be aware, and we all need to realise that we are in an unprecedented crisis, we must not hide it, and we must say it out loud as responsible politicians. I'm going to avoid kicking the government this time because it really doesn't have any sense at the moment, but it doesn't make any sense at all. I, on the other hand, support from the beginning of this meeting to address only and only the materials relating to the solution to the covid crisis at this meeting this week, so that, on the contrary, as Members, ministers show citizens in the Czech Republic that we understand the situation in which they are really in, the situation in which our entrepreneurs are in, the situation in which the employees, the situation in which parents are in, the parental public must take care of their underage children at home. But most importantly, we are aware of the situation of health professionals in the Czech Republic. We have the climax of the crisis ahead of us, the numbers we have, that's the look in the rearview mirror. There will certainly be an escalation of the crisis, and the atmosphere in hospitals is very nervous. Staff are already preparing for this on the brink of their mental and often physical forces. We are waiting for weeks that the Czech Republic has not experienced in its modern history, and it is our duty, as politicians and MPs at this time, to really deal only with and solely with these people, to prepare for them the maximum possible, maximum good conditions for them to be able to carry out their work at this time. Therefore, I appeal to all colleagues, let us not put points on the agenda of this meeting other than those which really concern the resolution of the covid crisis. Let us show this time, please, that we will be able to pull the imaginary one rope that the Prime Minister spoke of several times, but we have never been able to do so completely. Because the moment we're supposed to pull together, we have to share a unified goal. And that united goal is certainly to defeat this epidemic, this wave of pandemic, the other wave that just came, even though we all wanted it not to come. [[16.50 hours]] But to pull together, one goal is not enough, but we must all have the same information at our disposal. We need to be able to share the data, we need to be able to honestly communicate what awaits us in the next few days. We must be able to communicate very openly with each other, much more openly than we have in recent months. We must not be surprised, and we must also provide open information and open data to people. We must clearly tell our citizens what numbers are related to, for example, the one still in the media downgraded lockdown when it comes. That is what I expected to hear today in the speech by the Minister of Health, so that we would not be surprised in two, three days' time what the numbers meant for the economy to close. Because of the slow, natural slowing of the economy, of course, it is already happening now, but what it means to lock down. And, of course, it's good to put the unpleasant steps into public space, so that entrepreneurs can adapt to it, so that they know what awaits them in those coming days, and that we may be able to model further developments in some way. We also need the government, as well as the government itself, to act as a team as a whole, so that individual ministers withdraw from each other's reproaches, to act as a whole capable of leading this country in a crisis. In any case, we need to avoid playing PR on individual political parties, individual ministers, who can handle it better and who can handle it worse, because even when we feel that the firefighters who came to the fire are not the most capable of it, we are not calling another unit on short notice, but we are trying to help them in some way. And that, I think, is a big signal for the government itself. The opposition is not an enemy at the moment, but it is people who also want to lend a hand and, for example, help them in the work of the crisis staff, to help the government that we also have our experts. What is necessary, however, is communication to people and ask them to follow government measures, to really be responsible at the moment, and to those three basic assumptions, hands, partitions and drapes, add the fourth, and that is common sense. So that they do not threaten their loved ones with irresponsible behavior, because individual freedom ends where the freedom of another person is threatened. And that's a pretty convenient analogy for pandemics and epidemics, because when we think we're the single-minded ones who don't have to wear drapes, we don't follow the measures, so we're already directly touching each other's rights. This directly affects the fact that we can be the source of danger to others. It's a different situation than the usual. And that's where our freedom really ends as an individual, and that's where our free decision ends, because it really ends when we can endanger our loved ones, but we can put other people at risk. I would like to ask the public very much to be coherent now, to cope with this situation for the second time, so that the reasons why we came from this premiere in Europe are not addressed now, because there is no room for that. We just don't have time to spend our energy on ourselves by looking for the culprits. The time will come. I'm sure that time will come, and I'm sure the culprits will be held accountable. But there is no time when this crisis is coming to an end. I would like the power to ask all people to be responsible for making the work of the paramedics easier. Every irresponsibleness, every frivolous behavior makes life harder for those who save lives, they get nervous, they get tired, and at this point they find themselves in a situation that really can be very dramatic for them. At the same time, let me thank all volunteers who help with tracking. Allow me to thank all the paramedics, police, firefighters, but also the health station workers, who simply perceive the crisis differently from us, of course. We see it through the personal stories of our loved ones, but we don't see what the situation in that imaginary first line already looks like at this point, and maybe none of us can imagine what it will look like in the next 14 days. Of course, we also have questions about the government, and we expected that they will be answered today, and how the medical staff's capacities are secured, how care is provided for the children of health professionals, so that our medical staff's capacities can be as high as possible, how the promised dispatch currently works, which is to map the fullness of individual hospitals in the Czech Republic and possibly be able to react in an operational manner. What numbers are covered by this imaginary lockdown, how the follow-up areas are secured, that is, the areas where we can move the unacute patients at the moment. Who actually currently is the one who creates predictive models. Who's modeling them? Is it the UHIS as an official workplace, or is it the team of Pavel Řehák, the mysterious man with the Excel tablet, who appeared in the Home Secretary's office in the spring and started the process of convincing competent officials, ministers and the Prime Minister himself? Are these data available and can we have them, too, with clear authorship being declared? Is the government of the Czech Republic following a strategy that was developed at the end of May by the team of Pavel Řehák, where there were 32 clear steps to be able to manage the second wave of pandemics? Another question is why the government did not follow this in June and summer. Another question is why we wasted the summer, did not meet with the central epidemiology committee, but those are simply questions about how we found ourselves in the crisis, and those, as I said, are not important today. I would also ask for one particular thing that is based on our specific proposal, and that is the help of the most affected group that is now in our society, they are singles and singles. As a club of Mayors and Independents, we have drafted a bill that would also help them in this difficult situation. Unfortunately, the government gave a negative opinion on him. She could have had her reasons. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček has clearly promised me that the government will also come up with a solution for this very vulnerable group that finds itself on the brink of an existential emergency. Therefore, I very much ask that the government, when the promise was made by Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, keep this promise and, if possible, pay attention to this very vulnerable group of our citizens at this meeting as well. I would like to thank you very much to all those who follow government measures. I would like to ask the government to also fight misinformation to combat frivolity, because it is currently full of virtual space, and the voices cease to be heard when the difficult situation concerns one of those who, until then, have been frivolous. The situation is not simple, and the pandemic mathematics has its own logic. And even though it doesn't seem like anything major is happening to us, ask anyone in our medical facilities and they'll tell you that something fundamental is really going on. It is irrelevant to discuss whether people die of covid or covid. Those people, even though they had some other associated disease, could have been with us for some years. And it's a waste of every human life. And it needs to be realized that we are now able to protect those human lives by acting responsibly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u21	I thank Mr Vít the Rakušan. Now, then, Mr Radim Fiala, Kateřina Valachová will prepare, then Martin Kupka. The ANO Club has announced that it will only enter into a detailed debate, so these are the last three speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about the COVID-19 epidemic, we see that the public is losing confidence in government. I'll join those who say it's bad news. Let's ask why. Because, although Minister Prymula promised to improve communication and information, the government's information is unfortunately untrustworthy or lacking. If we do not have credible data, it cannot respond adequately to the situation at all and all government measures and people's confidence in government and the state are questioned. [[17,00 hours]] Let me give you a simple example. According to the Ministry of Health - I quote: The total number of deaths of persons with COVID-19 disease includes all deaths of persons who have been tested positively on COVID-19 by the PCR method, regardless of the causes of their deaths and whether their deaths occurred during or outside hospitalization. So the government says that so many and so many people are dying of coronavirus, yet it is not clear whether the person actually died of coronavirus. If I'm tested positive for COVID-19, I'm gonna be signless and someone shoots me or I crash in my car, I'm gonna have an accident in my car, then I'm gonna be in the statistics saying I died of a covid. That's not completely normal. This is similar in the case of other indicators. Treatments are reported in the case of people who have been tested positively by PCR method for the presence of the agent of COVID-19, regardless of the clinical course of the disease and possibly the treatment applied, and have been subjected twice to this laboratory testing with negative results. So cured, literally, according to this statistics, maybe someone who had no symptoms and didn't treat covid at all, only the presence of the virus was reported by the test. The same applies to the concept of active cases where one would think that it means that one is sick and sick. But even in this case, it's not. An active case means that it is tested positively. And with the current hospitalized, it's the same thing. You're going to the hospital with your appendix, you're, as far as I'm concerned, unmarkable, but you're included in the statistics because you've been tested positive for covid. How can we respond adequately if we do not know how many people actually die from covid? The figures given by the Ministry of Health barely say anything. And they're highly misleading, and they just scare people. They're causing panic. I'm not a doctor, but why maybe death from covid is not defined by the fact that a person is positive for covid, he has respiratory problems, or he has diagnosed pneumonia on his X-ray, and then he dies afterwards. I certainly am not saying that covid is something like a dent, as they say, and I do not want to put this issue into question at all, and I know this is a very serious matter. In some people, it is a very serious disease. Like a serious illness, for example, a classic flu can be a disease. But if we are taking any measures that restrict human freedom and harm the economy and people's living standards, we must have exactly the reality of reflecting statistics and putting statistics in context. During the Great flu epidemic in autumn and winter 1995, up to 6,000 people died in connection with it. The epidemic of influenza from 1995 was the largest in the history of the independent Czech Republic in terms of scale. The exact number of victims is unknown. According to the statistical model, however, there were more than 6,000 deaths as a result of the epidemic, and so four times as many people as usual died during the winter season. The following reports appeared in the press: The internal department of the city hospital in Ostrava-Fifeydy is so crowded these days that two to three newly hospitalized people must always wait one night on temporary couches. Nearly 20,000 patients die every year in the Czech Republic in connection with the flu or pneumonia. The flu or pneumonia is the main cause of over 3,000 deaths per year on average. However, as a diagnosis of causal link to death, the influenza or pneumonia occur on average in almost 20,000 deaths per year. Is someone stopping the economy here and standing for the flu? Without wanting to compare it in any way, I just think this data is telling. The figures also show that in 2014 and 2018, 110,000 people died on average per year. In the Czech Republic, 9,000 people per month die on average. Nearly a third of the dead will take the lives of heart disease and blood vessels. The main reason is chronic ischemic disease and heart failure. And so on. Of course, there are many diseases. Docent Ševčík also pointed out that the total number of deaths in the first 34 weeks of this year in the Czech Republic has been the second lowest since 2015. Fewer people died only in 2016. These statistical data have been published 12. 10. 2020. So it's brand new. Again, I don't want to downplay the coronavirus, but I think - and I want to thank the paramedics and everyone for handling it - but I think that these data are sufficient not to create any panic and to shut down the economy. How many people who fail a company or lose a job get a heart attack or another disease from stress? Those people wouldn't have to die. How many people commit suicide? If the economy declines by around 10 percent of GDP year-on-year, it is clear that there will also be lower health revenues. The question is not how much does human life cost, as Mr Prymula said, but does the human life infected by a covid cost more than a person with another disease and this life is worth more? Of course not. All lives have the same value. There have been x reports in the media that a number of people postpone their visit to a doctor, which diagnoses malignant diseases later, and some doctors are also afraid to investigate patients. In our view, above all, the most vulnerable groups need to be protected. I don't understand why the distribution of respirators for the most vulnerable groups doesn't work here. For seniors, for disabled people and others. Priority should be given to those in the case of covid as well as in the case of influenza and other respiratory diseases. I think this thing should have worked long ago. Another thing is that we don't know what scenarios the government is preparing. The government has told us several times that they're gonna tell us the scripts. The press are asking about it, and I'm telling them, we're waiting for the government to tell us what's going to happen. What's going to happen? And the reporters say, "Yeah, they already promised to say it. They didn't. They haven't said it yet. Citizens don't know what they can prepare for. Citizens need to know what will happen so they can plan things for at least a few days in advance. People and companies live in complete uncertainty and do not even know possible scenarios. The measure is introduced ad hoc at the last minute without any plan and concept. One of the worst things that can happen to us in life is uncertainty. And I think a lot of people are here today. I must say that we are trying to be constructive in the SPD movement and we are proposing a number of measures to help citizens who have been in difficulty. We have supported and supported and supported government measures that are reasonable. But if I go back to the beginning - if the government doesn't come out of real data and if it doesn't put them in real context, it can't even bring a real solution. Isn't that exactly why we don't know him yet? I therefore call on the government to stop supplying us with manipulative data, but data that reflect reality. Then we can find a real solution. Finally, I would like the government to deliver the above-mentioned plan several times. Let me thank all the paramedics and all those who take care of the sick. And I want to say, of course, that people should be responsible not only for themselves, but also for the others. I wish everyone a lot of good health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u23	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now speak in the debate and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my dear government, the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club discussed the situation in the fight against COVID-19 during my meeting this morning, and allow me to convey to you the opinion of our MP and social democracy. [[17.10 hours]] For us is absolutely crucial and the main thing to ensure the safety of people, their lives and health, ensuring sufficient beds and medical staff. Follow-up preventive measures that are difficult for all citizens and, of course, mean a radical change in their lives, restrictions that no one wants, we see as absolutely necessary and preventive, which have a single goal, and that we must have at this point, at this stage of the COVID-19 epidemic, in mind, and this is the protection of people's life and health. We appreciate the reliable safety net of the Central Crisis Staff and the integrated rescue system, police and military, especially in recent days, when these components help to ensure what I have mentioned is most important to us at the moment, and that is therefore sufficient, affordable quality health care for all, to protect people's lives and health. We thank all health professionals, doctors, nurses, medics, but also students and students of secondary health schools, and of course we believe that in particular we need to draw our attention to them, because they are people, they have their human powers, and it is clear that only the approach of each of us, responsible access to each of us to the others, can slow down the epidemiological curve, the evolution of COVID-19, and therefore also enable our health professionals to cope with the situation. We will support and enforce all laws and rapid approval that protect and facilitate the lives of all citizens and citizens in the current situation. It is not only compensation laws presented by our government in a legislative emergency, and it responds to restrictions on economic life in the country, but it is, and it is very important for us, and the matters relating to the provision of medical care towards parents with children in case of school restrictions, it is a protected account to prevent a repetition of the economic crisis situation in 2010-2012, when an unauthorized execution has created a debt spiral towards people who have done nothing wrong, but have just been victims of wrongful execution and recovery of sums that did not belong to the executioner. We also support, of course, the rapid approval of a one-off pension allowance towards seniors and seniors, as well as the approval of a substitute maintenance allowance, which is long-term waiting for by singles and singles in cases where it is not possible to ensure the recovery of their children's due maintenance. It is at this time that these single - parent families have a particularly difficult situation, and they are also waiting for this help. What the House has not discussed so far, and I think it is very important, and I believe, colleagues and colleagues, that we will get to this issue, are the current working conditions of employees, workers working within businesses, a fabric, where we have not responded in any way yet within six months to the fact that, of course, protective equipment, their use, breaks at work, and other work security issues, of course, have a whole new dimension thanks to the epidemic. It is the reality of every worker's life, and I think we owe workers and workers a response to this, including ensuring new conditions for the dignity of their work and safety even during the COVID-19 epidemic. In the budget, we supported increased funds towards social workers, health care, social care, but also quality education in the covid age. We want a clear national economic plan for the reconstruction of the country, and in this respect we are working together to finalize it with our colleagues, coalition partners in the government, the ANO movement. The House must be capable of doing all of this, carrying out these tasks. That is why, in the morning, our parliamentary club has also evaluated today how we should prepare for the next weeks and months, because it is clear to everyone that the return to the original normal life before COVID-19 will not be so fast if it happens at all from the point of view of complete return, and we therefore believe that it is appropriate to consider the House's course of action in a situation of worsening epidemiological situation. It does not have to be an idea that Mr Klaus mentioned here and was critical of it, the idea that perhaps we would sit in the living room, but there are certain rules, such as in Slovakia, which allow a concentrated vote, another House organisation, as some members of our social democratic club have mentioned and pointed out, and we should undoubtedly take this path. That is why I, as chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, will communicate with the President of the Chamber of Deputies on this matter, because it is absolutely crucial for us to do everything that is important for us to enforce and how to protect and ensure the normal lives of citizens and citizens in our country and in the situation of the epidemiological situation of COVID-19. In short, we have to live with the virus, not succumb to it, not to fear, not to panic, so we need an actionable House for it all. We will therefore also support all the proposals that will be put forward and voted in this direction today at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your attention. And I will end up wishing for what is most important, namely health and safety to all citizens and citizens in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u25	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka, the last one entered into the general debate, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u26	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will not look back on what should have happened and what has not happened, but I would like to draw attention to the things that must be handled, and I would like the contribution to sound as a warning at the same time, as a call or as a request for what should certainly still be done. We follow the response from the field, depending on what the paramedics say, especially in the rescue services, that it's starting to work one place, the one line that coordinates the capacity of intensive care beds for covid patients, and that it finally manages better where the paramedics can bring sick patients. It is clear that we are going to have, especially the health system, the most demanding period that Czech health care has experienced in the last few decades, and the functioning of this one coordination point will undoubtedly be crucial. What I don't know, and I want to ask, and I also want to call on that if this doesn't exist so that it starts to exist and works as quickly as possible, is a center for coordinating the needs of hospitals. We already have reports from the field that in a number of health care establishments the staff are not getting in particular, both in nonmedical and medical professions, and medical establishments in Central Bohemia see this as a fundamental handicap and a fundamental problem for managing the incoming wave of hospitalized patients. At the same time, some establishments have already started to use the assistance of the Army of the Czech Republic, but I would like to ask whether at this point a centre is being put together to coordinate the needs of hospitals, to receive reports on where it is necessary to deploy other doctors and non-medical nurses, and how the Czech Republic will be able to manage this at some point in the beginning and mid-November, with the fact that we are also registering the interest of volunteers, interest and active backups, which is an exceptional opportunity for the Czech Republic to give active backups an opportunity to show their active interest in helping the state in its most difficult situation, to use their forces, would have another very important added value for their own purpose of functioning. [[17.20 hours]] The government is supposed to have a clear order or its own plan of how it will be able to make use of offers of assistance from individual volunteers from different groups, depending on how they will be prepared and how they will be able to assist in health care facilities. It is clear that this is not trivial, but also given that the response of some universities is rather cold in terms of the use of medications, so managing such needs is one of the important things. Thus, a specific call from our side on how such a place is being prepared to manage the needs and coordination of hospitals' needs, as well as in relation to individual regions. Another area is education. It was clearly said that it was a natural will for all of us to return to the schools as soon as possible. But we also call for clear scenarios as to how this will be possible not only in the case of the first degree, but what to do if the situation continues to develop dramatically, how to give priority to pupils of the first and second classes, because there is, of course, distance teaching of the most demanding and difficult to manage. Thus, how the Czech Government will be able to divide the distance teaching for individual groups of students just in case of those other scenarios. The same applies to ninth grade pupils who have to prepare for entry to secondary schools so that there is also a clear plan in this regard, taking into account the specific needs and requirements when these pupils are to prepare for entrance exams. The same applies to pupils of the fifth grade of primary schools, of course, to a clear extent. We have noted that the government has decided to abolish schools in nature for kindergarten schools. We do not know the exact reasons, but from the response of kindergarten schools, but also from a number of establishments, we hear that the measure does not have logic for them, and we want to ask whether, even in this case, the government would have prepared a clear plan and argumentator how to enable such schools in nature to enable them, what might prevent them and what the consequences of such actions are. And the last important thing that arises as an actual requirement, because from a number of parents, which, for example, schools have already prepared and equipped with the necessary technology, there is a requirement to ensure access to Internet services, simply data services. How does the government try to help in this regard whether negotiations are taking place with operators to repeat the assistance when operators have released data tariffs so that no one in the company stays among the pupils without the possibility of distance teaching due to the lack of Internet access. This is a set of specific questions, specific challenges that really aim to make the Czech Republic deal with the upcoming crisis as best as possible. I'm not saying this here to tease the government. I am saying this here and behind our parliamentary club, so that by specific questions, by specific calls, we can contribute to the fact that the Czech Republic will be better prepared for the coming difficult period. Of course, I also join in wishing good health for all and with great thanks for the health professionals who intervene in the field. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u27	Thank you. Mr Kupka was the last member of the general debate. No one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. President Faltýnek is the first party to the detailed debate, and then Mrs Richterová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present the motion for a resolution proposed by our parliamentary club on the current situation surrounding the COVID-19 epidemic. "The Chamber of Deputies, aware of the gravity of the current epidemiological situation and regardless of political differences 1. Supports the anti-epidemiology measures taken to reduce the incidence of COVID-19 disease in the Czech Republic and calls on citizens to comply with them as much as possible; 2. Expresses thanks to all health care professionals, social services workers, firefighters, police officers, soldiers, health professionals and others who care about patients with COVID-19 disease or otherwise contribute to the control of the epidemic." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u29	Thank you. And Mrs Richterová will be the next to speak in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u30	Such a sigh. The President of the Faltýnek Club has spoken very strongly here with this motion for a resolution, but when we asked questions, there was no one here to answer us as Members. I just think it's a really inappropriate, undignified House meeting. I would now consider the justification for this motion for a resolution, which I will read, concerning what we can do. And, as the Chamber of Deputies, we can check whether all employees of state authorities and companies, with which it is only a little possible, work from home. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if we want to appeal to compliance, to thank health professionals, we should, as a state, ensure that we really respect all that is possible and that all state institutions provide the maximum opportunity to work from home. I warn my colleagues, we have changed in this proposal, which you have in writing, the word 'whether', so the final text is indeed: 'The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to check whether all employees of state authorities and companies, with whom it is only a little possible, are working from home.' It's as simple as that. And I would like to follow up on this resolution by voting on the possibility of discussing the possibility of acting as the House on-line in a working group. The reasons aren't what they said. Guess somebody mistook a job from home for a vacation. It's really not like that. It is, by the way, that we, if we agree to work from home, spare the work of doctors and nurses if we get infected here. It is also like preventing us from getting out of our own way by not being able to tolerate as the House, because there would need to be too many people in quarantine and sick. Finally, there is an argument, a number of people are in quarantine today, they may have a negative test and they cannot exercise their constitutional right to exercise their mandate, they cannot be here with us. He's, like, the chairman of our MP's club. And I want to point out that we should also stand up to this, because even because many of us can be quarantined, is the solution to an online meeting. And what I want to ask you for is a purely quick, factual discussion on: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the President of the Chamber of Deputies to immediately convene a working group with the representation of all the club members and, in cooperation with the legislative and organizational department of the Chamber of Deputies, to arrange for the preparation of such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act, which will allow for a distant course of action and vote by the Chamber of Deputies during the emergency situation caused by the epidemiological situation." The limit is purely for an emergency and an epidemiological situation like this. Thank you very much for considering this proposal. The resolution is a request to convene a working group with the aim of working on something like this. Thank you for at least considering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u31	Thank you. And President Markéta Pekarová Adamová in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very correct debate and many questions and suggestions from the counter. And the answer to them is silence. Part of the meeting here was at least a Vice Prime Minister and other members of the government, unfortunately the Minister of Health was not here at all, but I would expect that these specific questions will also be answered here. It was a left here on the right, a whole bunch of constructive things. So remember this moment when the Prime Minister or whoever else says we're not cooperating, we're supposed to pull together, we're all in the same boat. Remember that. In fact, all the colleagues, all the previous speakers, had a whole range of really constructive questions. So please remember that there is not a single answer to them here and that there is such a renegade noise from the government bench that we wouldn't be concerned about it, that we wouldn't bother in this unprecedented situation in which we find ourselves. [[A reminder from the diaper.]] And neither have colleagues here from the Communist Party, my colleague through the President, nor has he been answered. I think that's shameful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u33	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am done with the debate. We have two motions for a resolution here. Jaroslav Faltýnek, President of the ANO Club, made one, and Mrs Olga Richterová made the second proposal on two points. However, although I have already called Members to the Chamber, I will wait three minutes, in accordance with the agreement of the political grémium of the House, before we vote. In the meantime, there's an application for a check-out. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your cards again. [[The President is waiting.]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we are ready for a vote. However, there is a request for a separate vote on the proposals made by President Faltýnek. I do not have the proposals available, I would ask the President, if he read the first part again, we will vote on it, and then the second part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u34	The preamble reads: "The Chamber of Deputies, aware of the gravity of the current epidemiological situation and regardless of the political differences 1. Supports the anti-epidemiology measures taken to reduce the incidence of COVID-19 disease in the Czech Republic and calls on citizens to comply with them as much as possible; 2. Expresses thanks to all health care professionals, social services workers, firefighters, police officers, soldiers, health professionals and others who care about patients with COVID-19 disease or otherwise contribute to the control of the epidemic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-20-ps2017-062-01-003-501.u35	Yes. First, let's vote on the preamble... about the preamble in both cases. First, we will vote on paragraph 1. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28. 94 Members are registered, for 72, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on paragraph 2, as President Faltýnek put it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 29. 94 Members registered, for 94, against no one, the proposal was accepted. We will now vote on the first proposal made by Mrs Olga Richterová. The motion for a resolution is as follows: 'The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to check whether all civil servants and companies with little possibility work from home'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30. Registered 94 MPs. For 15, versus 9. The motion was not accepted. The second proposal by Mrs Richterová reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the President of the Chamber of Deputies to convene without delay a working group with the representation of all the Members' clubs and, in cooperation with the Legislative and Organisational Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to arrange for the preparation of such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act, which will allow a distant way of negotiating and voting the House's plenary during the emergency situation caused by the epidemiological situation." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 31. Registered 94 Members, for 18, against 9. The motion was not accepted. This has dealt with all the proposals that we should have voted on. I'm done discussing this point. Now we're going to go with point number
