ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u1	258. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and some other related laws /house print 689/ - third reading I ask that instead of the rapporteur's table, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Roman Sklenák. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 689/4, which was delivered to you on 11 May 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 689/5. Once again, I will ask everyone present to settle in their seats, or transfer the discussion to the foyer. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third reading of the amendment to the Labour Code. I would just like to briefly recall the development of this proposal. In order not to repeat the situation from the past years and we have joined the amendment to the Labour Code, which is undoubtedly one of the most important laws ever, so we are in the autumn of last year... [[Silence because of the noise in the O.R. The President is ringing the bell.]] ... closed at the level of the presidents of coalition parties, i.e. Prime Minister Babiš, Mr. First Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček, Chairman of Coalition Members' Clubs, President of Faltýnek, President of Chvojka, I joined this as a petitioner and then all four heads of the so-called tripartite, President Hanák of the Union of Industry and Transport, President Wiesner of the Confederation of Employers' Unions, President of Středula for ČMKOS and President of Dufek for ASO. All of these persons agreed to support the version approved by the government in the autumn of last year when discussing this proposal and to support only those amendments - a written agreement signed by all the persons I have named - on which all these persons will have unanimous agreement. In the gentlemen's agreement, which was concluded in writing for the first time, all of these persons committed themselves to supporting only those amendments on which the consensus of all those involved is agreed in the House. [[9.10 hours]] The amendment to the Labour Code concerns the following issues - and I will be very brief here. We are introducing a shared job, we have inspired ourselves in Germany, and we want to support the development of part-time jobs. We have committed ourselves to simplifying the service of documents, that is, if the employer does not take over the document from the employee, the so-called "new' is introduced. the fiction of delivery. We are introducing a fairer calculation, a fairer right to leave, which will be newly, if the draft is approved, derived from the hours worked, not from the days worked. We are introducing an increase in compensation for the survivors, the amounts will be tied to the average wage and the financial compensation in the event of death is proposed as twenty times the average wage, which today corresponds to approximately CZK 720 000; at the memorial, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs proposes 1.5 times the average earnings. We are simplifying and responding to the Directive on the posting of foreign workers, a transposition of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the framework of the provision of services. This extends protection for posted employees from the EU to the Czech Republic, which will be subject to the same conditions as our employees. There is also a reduction in the administrative burden, which means that the administrative burden imposed on employers is substantially reduced by abolishing the employer's obligation to issue employment certificates to employees in the event of termination of the employment agreement. I am very happy that we are succeeding at this moment in a relatively fast time to get to the third reading. I think it is an excellent report that we have managed to agree on the basic parameters of this amendment of the law. And I would like to say a few last things. There was a consensus between the social partners during the discussion of this amendment. There has been a consensus between the social partners on Mr Kaňkovský's amendment to the miners. Here the tripartite agreed with this amendment, which means that on this proposal, I will give a favourable opinion on this technical change. In recent weeks, we have also discussed Mr Farský's amendment, which actually helps support young people. I would like to point out here that I support this amendment factually and humanly. I think we need to promote youth sports activities. On the other hand, it must be said that, in particular, employers' representatives do not agree with this proposal, which is why I will give a dissenting opinion on this opinion, because it would be a violation of the written agreement at the level of the coalition parties' presidents, coalition members' club presidents, and then of all four representatives of social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u3	Thank you. I am opening the debate and the President Stanjura is the first person to sign up to it with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, with one exception, where we will criticize more administrative demands, the Civic Democrats' Club has no problem. That is what I want to say first, and in detail about the instrument that we do not see as completely happy, and that is the bureaucracy of a shared job, my colleague, Mr Bauer, will speak. But there's no reason not to support the bill. That's my first point. Secondly, the Minister has declared a written agreement here, but it does not concern opposition parties, so logically the opposition parties are coming up with their amendments. [[unintelligible]] However, we knew it or suspected it, and we respected it for a long time. I think that if you look at, for example, the date on which the amendments tabled by the citizens' Democrats were introduced, it is essentially a response to the situation in the Czech Republic from 1 March and to what will follow. I don't know which one of you thinks that in the coming weeks and months employers will create new jobs on a large scale. I think it would be a great success if as few jobs were lost. And our goal should be for those who want to work to have a chance not to automatically fall into the employment office or social media. And we're coming, or I'm coming on behalf of our club with one amendment that could help it, and it's about people who can't get or can't get jobs from different situations of life. It's work agreements. For those who are not completely oriental, I fully respect this: Today there are actually two limits that are interesting - that the total amount of work can be 300 hours a year, if we divide it by the number of weeks, it is six hours a week. And on the other hand, if the reward is less than 10,000 a month, which is 120,000 a year, if it would be six hours a week every week, which it might as well be, the employer does not pay social and health until the 10,000, which is, among other things, an economic stimulus for those employers to make such a type of employment, virtually. the contractual relationship was supported and made possible. [[unintelligible]] Very often, moms who are on parental leave, our seniors, students, etc. work on work agreements. At this point, I am coming up with a simple amendment that has raised the scope of the clock by 50 percent, not the amount. This means that it would have no impact, if it were accepted, on the income of the social system or health system. Especially in regions like Moravian-Silesian, so if you have 300 hours and you have a maximum of 120 000, which is the motivation for those employers, that's 400 crowns an hour. So very often it happens that it is exhausted not the limit of financial, but the number of hours is exhausted. And we think that in the coming weeks and months, there should be a chance for these people to walk for more hours if they can. [[unintelligible]] So we have a simple amendment that actually replaces the words "300 hours" with the words "450 hours." It is a chance for those who, of course, do not work for CZK 400 an hour, there are certainly such exceptions, but I say, in the Moravian-Silesian region, if you then convert it to a normal employment relationship, it is equivalent to a gross wage at 160 hours of about 64,000 gross, and the hourly rates are very common for 120, 150, 170 crowns, so that we can give them a chance to make the next 150 hours, if the employer can use them to earn them. We deliberately did not increase the amount so that there would be no impact on the income of the social and health system. I believe that this is not a political proposal that this is not a right-left conflict, as the labour code is a right-left conflict, and the government in this case, and even the secretary, I must commend it, has kept it fairly short, so that - I mean in a good way - the proposal does not provoke a right-left conflict, the government bill. And when you, Madam Secretary, spoke about the bill in the last parliamentary term, there were points that sparked a major political conflict, and maybe that's why the law wasn't actually negotiated, it wasn't approved because it was very difficult to look for the majority for the proposal in the last parliamentary term. I would like to ask honored colleagues not to look at the fact that it is presented by the citizens' democrats to try to consider that this is a chance for those - for example. those mothers on parenting or students - they can't even have a major job for many reasons, give them a chance to work 150 hours a year and earn money. They'll bring them back to the economy. Thank you for any support for this amendment. It's listed in the print 689/4 under letter B.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u5	Thank you. Mr Grospič is also in writing in the debate, then Mr Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, I will follow up on my speech at first reading of this law and second reading, which actually concerned the overall controversy with the philosophy of this law. I understand there's been some gentleman's agreement, even if our legal concept, the rule of law doesn't know the term gentleman's. I had a chance to read it, to meet it. I understand that some trade unions - especially ČMKOS - are tilted to certain variants that are presented here today. But I am a little concerned that the proposed amendment, although it is pretending that it is actually only a transposition directive of the Council of the European Parliament, is not sincere in this sense, because it does not only deal with this transposition, as originally announced by the petitioners, but it hides in itself a number of fundamental problems that, from my point of view, may cause a number of problems, and even some trade unions or ČMKOS may not have the right estimate in this context. Especially in today's situation, when it already appears in some segments of the national crisis economy, in particular the automotive industry is already clearly affected by this, I think that loosening up labour law and the way in which shorter jobs are preferred, even in a good way, I am saying this, in no way wrong with those amendments, through you, Mr President, for example, colleague Stanjura, I understand this, but I do not think that this may be a solution and this may get out of the way of the whole amendment, as it is presented. I would like to say that today's labour code, as we know it, also comes with, for example, the employment of a number of mothers with children or those who take care of another third person, cannot perform full-time work or need work time adjustment. And I don't think, for example, that shared job with which we have a big problem as a KSČM, especially in the form it is designed, submitted by the OVZ (?), it will bring relief to the administrative burden for employers or to facilitate the stabilisation of the labour market. Some amendments have been mentioned here. I do not think, for example, that it is reasonable for an employer to be able to order a shared job, as proposed in an amendment, I think Mr Bauer, so that he can order, if he has not agreed, representation of an absentee employee at a shared job. After that, it is no longer a shared job, and it is a bit of a lack of logic and sense, probably even the proponents of this law. So we have a pretty big problem with that. And I think that it may also be quite essential in which amendments will be supported or will not be supported. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] We have no problem as a KSČM club to support, for example, the MP's proposal by Mr Vít Kaňkovský or the MP's proposal by Mr Jan Farský, which goes in the spirit of what KSČM also promotes. And I think it can be a standard on our part. But on the other hand, it doesn't rule out the issue I was talking about. What we also see as a very complex area of complete change in the conversion of calendar leave. It is not so much that we proposed, as KSČM, instead of four weeks, to be a five-week calendar holiday in a separate law. And we did not have the ambition to enter the amendment to this law because we considered that the conversion should be adjusted overall, even if it did not happen by the MPSV. With the view that I would like to say here that the proposal tabled in the Chamber of Deputies is based on the fact that the current regulation will be twenty-five weeks. But it is also to think that this proposal alone envisages the differentiation of the conversion of the calendar leave into a certain number of posts. And I'll give you an example. It is also quoted in the explanatory memorandum, where it is said that an employee who works after 30. 6. for a fixed weekly working period of 40 hours and from 1. 7. agreed shorter weekly working hours 30 hours per calendar year, works a total of 52 full multiples of weekly working hours, of which 26 weeks after 40 hours and 26 weeks after 30 hours, leave with the employer is five weeks and we proceed according to § 213 below, the length of his leave for the calendar year 2021 shall be determined as follows. And now there are multiples for the first and second half of the year and for the whole year for 175 hours. But actually, when we go to these conversions, we find that we don't take into account full-time, for example, six hours over the whole multiple of this shorter weekly period. And this is how I could proceed. So there is actually a certain number of working hours that he would be entitled to in terms of calendar leave, if we were to take this as a standard and not round it up with the number. That's what's mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. It's been taken apart. And I think it's obvious that this is some sort of discrepancy, which is probably not right, which should be resolved. So I want to say in conclusion that I understand the agreement that has been concluded. We're looking at it very carefully. We will also formulate our position on the basis of which amendments will pass and which will not. I said the two that we don't have a problem with, which we look at very kindly. But we have a big problem as KSČM and after discussion with some trade unions, which are not associated in ČMKOS, with the possibility to proceed with the conversion of the calendar holiday, and with what is being read in some amendments. This will also affect the vote of the KSČM and the approach to the amendment as such, because we think that simply - and I am going back to what I started - that the petitioner, when he promised in the so-called gentlemen's agreement that he would go on the transposition, might have left the ambition at least to convert the calendar holiday or to leave it divided into two segments, that is, the current adjustment. And if the employer had used a shared job, he would have applied it in his company, so that he would have allowed the calendar leave to unwind in this case from the conversion to the individual hours worked. So much for the KSČM club and for our view of the presented novel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next one is entered in the debate by Mr Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u8	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I have already communicated my view of the proposed amendment to the Labour Code in the first reading. However, allow me to make a few comments. First of all, I would like to briefly recall the intention of the three amendments that I tabled for the ODS, and, of course, you will vote on them together with others. Although these are essentially minor changes, I deliberately submitted them separately, but so that they could also be voted separately. And I believe they can find your support. First, in general. For me, this amendment is certainly the better, Madam Secretary, who came from the MPSV. I also appreciate the fact that this is the outcome of the debate and a certain compromise with which representatives, employees and employers have no problem. In particular, I would like to stop at the concept of a shared job. I'm sure everyone agrees to its introduction into practice. However, good intentions are not enough. Practice and whether employers will actually create these jobs in practice are essential. Respectfully, whether they will create these jobs without having to be artificially motivated by any subsidy European programmes. [[9.30 hours]] Moreover, in my opinion, the proposal to establish a shared job seeks to anchor something that is practically possible by the party's contractual freedom at this time. Labour law is a private law which, while respecting the fundamental principles and obligations of the provisions of the Labour Code, allows both parties to set individual labour rules. So if now the petitioner, which is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, proposes to lay down rules for sharing a job directly in the Labour Code, we should really consider in detail how such an adjustment will change and set up existing practice, and whether the new standard, this adjustment, will change something and how it will actually work in real life. It is in the light of these arguments and suggestions from the field that I propose precisely three amendments, which I will now briefly present here. The first amendment is listed under number 5147 in the system, relating to working time. The Government's proposal provides that the total working hours of staff may not exceed the prescribed weekly working hours. In the absence of this limitation proposed by Section 317, a shared place could be more attractive for employers because it would allow them to deal with a much larger number of cases. For example, from practice, the operation of reception from 7 to 20 hours, which cannot be solved by one job, but could be elegantly solved by a shared place with two or three employees. This is a real example from practice. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs argues that if a higher limit than the weekly working time had been chosen, the intention of the petitioner would have been denied to allow a full-time job to be divided between more employees with shorter working hours, and that the shared job is not intended to cover a certain operation or activity of the employer from time to time. Frankly, I do not see a contradiction with the proposed amendment. It just seems that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs only works with a model of half-time employment. However, if, for example, a company needs to cover a place where employees with a job take turns, for example, five hours a day, the designer's proposed model will no longer work in practice. The second amendment is registered under number 5148 in the system. It concerns the crowd. A colleague of Grospič also spoke of him, if I had listened correctly. The government draft proposes mandatory consent to each particular staff member. In practice, however, employers often have to solve a number of problems with the long-term absence of employees, for example because of a disease where they have to find compensation in practice. They would therefore be welcome if they were to be able to order the crowd, but beware, or arrange some rules. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs argues that a shared job is an institute of private law on the basis of a two-party agreement and that the obligation to represent an employee is an intervention in private life. It therefore has the right to exempt the terms and scope of representation, i.e. to bind them only to certain days or time of day. In the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the legislator should not, in a supreme way, determine that the employee is obliged to represent another employee. Here too, however, the fundamental argument of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not, in my opinion, break with the proposed amendment. The rules of representation are to be dealt with individually by the agreement, which is the basis, as is apparent from the paragrafo text of the amendment. Only in the absence of an agreement, which can happen in practice, is the employer entitled to order the crowd unilaterally in order to maintain the smooth operation of his activity. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs assumes for no reason that the crowd would do other employees in excess of their working hours and apparently in conflict with the agreed type of work. I am, of course, aware of the specific provisions of the Labour Code, which cannot be easily avoided. The last amendment, which is listed under number 5149 in the system, concerns the notice period. I think it is also a small but significant help in employment relations. This third amendment extends the notice period set by the Government proposal to just 15 days. For employers, this means for companies, it is an disproportionately short period of time, because they will have to schedule their employees' working hours immediately after the period of notice. I cannot imagine how employers or companies will address this situation within two weeks. Therefore, I suggest, I think, a reasonable and reasonable extension of the notice period of those 15 days that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has there for one month, for the employment contract it is two months, with the notice period starting not by delivery, but only on the first day of the calendar month following delivery. In this case, I do not take the argument of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, according to which in the interests of flexibility it is necessary to allow employees to leave work quickly if the work does not suit him. It is, of course, a one-sided view from the employee. Here I see a really great imbalance between the position of an employee and an employer. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs focuses only on the employee's point of view and completely undermines the operational difficulties that can arise for companies and employers. The labor code works with a general two-month notice, I suggest a half-time period. Should the proposal be adopted, it will enable both employees and employers to set up a new work organisation regime without undue interference. Dear colleagues, these are three of my minor amendments to this government bill. I would very much like them to find your support across the political spectrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u9	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. He apologizes to Minister Marie Benešová until the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Rakušan cancels his apology, she is already present. Mr.Defense Minister Lubomír Metnar apologizes from 9.30 pm to the end of the day for urgent work reasons, the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologises from 10 a.m. to the end of the day for personal Jiří; Václav Klaus apologizes from 10.30 pm to the end of the day for Kobza reasons. And here again, Mr Kobza's apology from 10:00 to 12:30, we have it twice. Another one for the debate is Mr Hnilička.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u10	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me, too, to say a few words on the amendment, on a government bill proposing five days of work leave for action with children and young people. I would like, not only on my behalf, but on behalf of the National Sports Agency, but in particular the entire Czech sports environment, to express my support for this amendment, which will straighten the conditions for volunteers to participate in sports camps with the conditions of the camps and which will allow compensation for wages for the participation of a volunteer in sports camps. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Although this is not seen in the media, where professional sports competitions dominate, Czech sport is based on volunteer work. There are thousands and thousands of people all over the country who train children without the right to reward, who help to maintain the sports field of their division, who are involved in the administration and functioning of the entire local club. The National Sports Agency was created mainly to straighten out the financing of all the floors of the imaginary sports pyramid, and this amendment primarily interferes with the lowest levels of the pyramid - children, coaches, small sports clubs. In the last two years, I have visited hundreds of small sports clubs throughout the Czech Republic, either as a government sports agent or as President of the National Sports Agency. Children's categories here in the vast majority are trained by hearts, who give children their free time after work and often most weekends to participate in matches, races or tournaments. The problem is that children's sports camps are mentioned, because in current practice coaches have to take vacations in order to participate in the camp, which makes the situation much more difficult for them. Thus, it is often the case that the team coach cannot, for various reasons, use his participation in the camp for vacation and the team must be led by someone else. This amendment, which will also allow one week of paid leave in the participation of a volunteer in concentration, will, in my opinion, significantly help smaller children's sports clubs in their operation and will overall have a positive impact on the development of Czech youth sport. Support for children, coaches and small sports clubs is the main priorities of the National Sports Agency and this amendment will strongly support these priorities. Therefore, I would like to thank his petitioners and you, colleagues, all of you, for his approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u11	Thank you. Next is the debate of Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u12	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I would like to start by expressing the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP on the amendment to the Labour Code. KDU-ČSL will support this amendment. We see it both as a transposition amendment and we also see an effort to improve the link between work and private life. I must say that we discussed some of the parameters of this so-called KDU-ČSL expert group. a shared place and I must say that I share some of the concerns of colleagues who have already been raised here today, but despite these more minor reservations, we are in favour of this institute being enshrined in the law and of supporting the law as a whole. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the amendment that has already been announced here, which is in the voting procedure under letter D, which we have long been preparing and discussing, in particular, with my colleague, Mr Josef Hájek, but also with other colleagues, my colleague Patrik Nacher, my colleague Černohorskýý and others. I have already introduced him here at second reading, but I will briefly mention him. You know that we have repeatedly discussed the problem of the so-called renters here during the last parliamentary term, but also at the beginning of this term. Sometimes it's so misleading. Some people think the renter's a renter, but he's not. Indeed, the renter is a person who has been through either an accident at work or has been granted occupational disease. That means, he is a person who has been a destiny in his life, or, as we call it, quite seriously affected, in the vast majority not by his own guilt. During his profession, his health deteriorated, and this is a very serious situation for him and the state will compensate him through insurance companies for the loss of earnings by the so-called rent. The calculation of the rent is very complex and it is also legally complex and, in our opinion, the model is discriminatory. And I'll just remind you what's going on. In this parliamentary proposal, we want to abolish the institute of so-called stop earnings. When the compensation for loss of earnings is calculated, the person who, before the accident, before the accident at work or before the recognition of occupational disease, earns some amount, is deducted from the amount that he is able to earn after the end of his incapacity for work. And here is the problem, because a number of people earn CZK 18,000 just after their incapacity to work, for example, but over the next few years for various reasons, for restructuring firms or for not being enough to do the work they did earlier, they find jobs that are harder to pay. Instead of the 18 grand, he's going to make 13 grand or 14 grand, but unfortunately, in that calculation model, he's still subtracting the 18 grand. So he's got a reduced payout of the 4,000 if we take the example 18 and 14. That's what we think is very demotivating because these people want to work. In the vast majority of cases they want to work, but if the state robs them of, for example, CZK 4,000, then they think: Should I stay at the employment office? Or should I go work black? And I think that we should not push our fellow citizens into these situations, because, as I said, they have already been affected by the occupational accident, or their work, demanding work in the chemical, construction industry, and so on, has caused them occupational disease. Therefore, after very difficult negotiations with representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but also after repeated meetings with miners and with other professions, we have just proposed the abolition of the so-called stop profit. Those relatively tragic cases of people who were declassified by the accident at work, but with their gradual will, they were able to return to work, and then they were declassified again by the fact that they found out that it wouldn't actually pay off, we could mention these cases here with a colleague named Josef Hájek, I think, tens. Only the miners involved are 4,000, but overall, the people who receive the so-called rent, i.e. compensation for loss of earnings, are 15,000 in the Czech Republic. You might say it's a small group, but it's people who have actually been quite prosecuted by fate who, in the vast majority of cases, want to work, and I think it's our job to make it possible for them. So that they can work so that they can be motivated and not feel discriminated or bullied by the current method of calculation. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to support our joint amendment, which we tabled with my colleague Hájek, and I firmly believe that you will be in favour of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u13	Thank you. I'm sorry... I've read this apology. Next, Mrs Gajdůšková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, gentlemen, honourable Government, the draft Labour Code, which we are to approve, has been presented by the Minister. However, I consider it necessary to underline two things in relation to the Labour Code and before we vote on it. The one is an area, the role of labour law itself, and the other is the importance of a social agreement. In recent months, many have seen for themselves how important the Labour Code, namely labour law or lack of labour law, has been. The rest of us mediated when we had to solve and still often solve existential problems for those who remained outside the protection of the Labour Code. I'm sure you all know I'm talking about the so-called brokers. Some of them accepted this style, the system, this form of employment, because they just didn't want to be tied up with a classic employment relationship, but we also all know that some just didn't have a choice. The lesson for us should be that labour law must be modern and flexible enough to suit employees, but also employers, to be manageable from the point of view of government. Thus, the Labour Code must set up a fair arrangement and a balanced relationship between employees and their employers. I remind you that this concerns over 5 million people in this country. For us Social Democrats, it is a fundamental requirement that workers should be held in the Labour Code, but it also has the competence of trade unions in the role of protecting the interests of employees at specific workplaces and negotiating the level of wages. But for employers, the labour code must be flexible enough so that they are not afraid of employing people and trying to circumvent the labour code either through the agreements or through the quarc system. The second point concerns the social agreement of the social partners. This is essential for the area of labour law. Tripartite, i.e. employers, unions and governments, must agree to keep social reconciliation in the country. Social reconciliation is governance on the basis of the agreement of the social partners, a principle on which social democracy has always built its rule and which, as we have proven twice in history, has always led to the country's return to prosperity. Whether it was after that, in quotes, the burned country after Klausův' government, or after the crisis after the governments of Prime Minister Topolánek and Nečas. Just a social agreement, a social reconciliation, an agreement between employers and employees' representatives, and on the third side of ministries, governments, it just works. And you can see that now. I'm saying this because we have a government draft of the Labour Code that has been negotiated in tripartite. [[9.50 hours]] And then we have a few amendments outside of this agreement. In particular, the amendment, the fundamental promoter of which is Mr Farský, who supports volunteering, who wants to bring an extra week off to work with children for their leaders, I would really very much and very much like to support it. I support volunteering in the long run because it's the foreign currency we have. It is said that volunteering brings billions to all of us. And those people really deserve to have the conditions for doing this volunteering. There's no need to talk about working with children, that's an area that's very well deserved. This proposal was also supported by our Member, my dear colleague Mrs Valachová. However, this amendment was not tripartitely negotiated. I really tried to connect with employers' representatives, but neither informally, nor in the first place, did they give me consent to support this proposal. I couldn't get their approval. But deals are meant to be honored. Trust between the social partners is an essential condition for maintaining social reconciliation. I therefore appeal to all of you to honor the agreement of the Minister, and therefore the governments with employers and trade unions, that this draft of the Labour Code will not change beyond the tripartite negotiated. I want a comment on that. Mr Farský proposal was to take effect in 2021. There is therefore sufficient time to lift this proposal and try to approve another procedure, either in another draft, or to put it as a parliamentary proposal. And I have a promise from both the Minister and the social partners that if this happens, unless this amendment is now approved, we will work together to create the conditions for volunteering, for working with children and young people, whether they are child and youth organisations or in sport, as far as possible in the form of more or less as suggested by Mr Farský now. I'm convinced these people deserve it. Their parents deserve it too, the company deserves it. I believe that even Mr Farský will not give up his initiative through Mr President if his amendment did not pass now. And I say again, I'd be happy to help. But now I respect the agreement of the social partners as a principle necessary for social cohesion, i.e. prosperity in our country. And thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u15	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u16	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President. I took the liberty of responding to the previous speaker, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, who commented here on the amendment to the proposal for support for young people. I think that the legislator is to decide according to his best conscience and consciousness, and I do not think that the question of adopting such an amendment is to be conditional on any agreement by employers, whether on a one-by-one basis or not. Because then I don't understand when it's said that we're not going to do this here right now, but if it had come another way a few months later as a separate proposal, we would have seen the support there by now. I think that if we look at this through the optics that today is a big problem for us to be able to have people who are willing to work with young people as part of their free time, invest free time in them within many organizations - and I've been working with young people for more than ten years, I've been the head of children's summer camps, I know what it takes time, energy. And what the amendment suggests is, let's say, some kind of symbolism, that's not how much time those people who really do it as a mission are going to do it. And I can't imagine employers saying, "Yes, we welcome this, put this there" at any other time, because it's a thing that makes life difficult for that employer in some way. But we're supposed to judge it by the optics of some higher general interest, as a society we want to appreciate people who work with young people. So I would very much like us to look at it with this optics, not with the optics, whether or not we can support the legislators in quotation marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u17	Thank you. And next to the debate - a factual remark by Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u18	I must respond to Mr Jurečka and at this moment I must express my understanding and support of my colleague Alena Gajdůškovášková. The Labour Code, I'd say, is in a way an exceptional legal standard. We are sort of divided here into those who have closer and defend the interests of employees, and those who have closer and defend the interests of employers. And every time the Labour Code is discussed here, it is a great battle, dozens of amendments are tabled, and sometimes it will turn out the way in the last parliamentary term that the amendments are so numerous and so diverse that the amendment is not approved at all, and that has happened to us. And I felt that in this case, all of us here, from the beginning, were aware of this historical experience. Therefore, the fact that only nine amendments were tabled, two of which deal with efficiency, just reflected the fact that we want to approve, in consensus, perhaps by all the votes of the standard on which there is general agreement. And that's what my colleague GajdůGajdůšková pointed to. Certainly neither she nor I nor any of you would have let us dictate what we have or should not have approved, nor employees, nor employers, but her motive was clearly described.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u19	Good morning, honourable Members. Thank you, colleague Sklenák. Now the factual comment by Marian Jurečka and we will continue with the performance of Mr Hájek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u20	Thank you. I'll just keep it short. I understand that part of the debate about honoring an agreement. On the other hand, it happens to us in other laws, when at the beginning of this story some boundaries are defined, it is said "the standard will contain only some changes" but then there will be some change, which is really specific in character, extraordinary - and I consider this change here. And when the word "social responsibility," "business ethics," "managing ethics" is being much tilted today, then if we want to talk about the fact that we want today's youth to have really good education not only in families, but also within the scope of their leisure use, we also need to have those people. And you all know very well, even based on our personal experience, that in this hectic time to find people who find that time, it's very complicated, and looking for that form of support, I think it's appropriate. And I fear that if we postpone this to any other opportunity, it may no longer succeed within this term of office of the Chamber of Deputies. That is the whole concern I expressed, but I think we understand that we would like to look for a way to resolve this, so that the support for these agendas and activities of people working with young people can be supported.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm gonna ask my colleague Hájek to wait. With priority rights, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I took off my drape to make myself understood. I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that we have tried to seek support for all the proposals so that this amendment will actually go through with the maximum support of the Chamber of Deputies. An important law like the Labour Code deserves it. I think that an excellent example of trying to make the most of support with regard to the development of the situation is precisely Mr Kaňkovský's amendment, which all those involved have supported, and I therefore firmly hope that it will pass today. This means that this is the perfect example of trying to respond to the development of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr Josef Hájek, now. Mr Radek Zlesák will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I am glad that today I can do something for my fellow miners. I'm here for the second term, and in the first term, we managed to enforce well-deserved early retirement pensions for miners. Of course, it's always important to see a hundred times better once. At the time we were dealing with old-age pensions, I organized a rip-off at the Paskov Dole. At that time Jana Černochová attended and saw with her own eyes what the work of the miners involved and that she really solved or allowed these people to go, and we managed to get out of the original five seven years, earlier, had a clear justification. At this time, I'm dealing with a second group of miners, now former miners. It is, as my colleague KaňkovskKaňkovský said, 4,000 former miners who can no longer carry out their work under either occupational disease or occupational injury. Those guys come to me, and what the miners really hate is injustice. And they still haven't breathed down the fact that, despite the work restrictions they have, or the work disability, they go to work and lose the job, and those situations happen. And today's time signals that unfortunately, job losses will be, and of course they will touch especially those districts that include Karvinsko, Karlovy Vary, Mostecko, Sokolovsko, that is, these people will then be the first ones to get laid off, because they will say: we will release you because you will not starve, you have some guarantee of earnings. Our amendment, which I made with my colleague Kaňkovský - and we have been doing this for three years, we tried in 2018 to allow this group of handicapped workers not to be punished by the increase in minimum wages when they reach the employment office. We, for God's sake, raised the minimum wage from 8,000 to today's ink 14 600, but these workers, who could not do their jobs and were at the employment office, were deducted from their compensation for losing their earnings, and so it happened that even though they had done nothing, their standard of living had been reduced. I am very pleased that thanks to the Minister, it was also possible to negotiate with tripartite in order to allow this group of workers not to be punished for going back to a place where they have lower earnings. This is the fundamental principle of this amendment so that the person who had to be released and made more money before and went back to work and made less money in that new place so that he would not be deducted from the rent from the amount he had earned at the previous workplace. They think it's unfair. I've got worse health, I can't do my job anymore, I've been fired from work, and now I have two options: either I'm going to work at the office and work somewhere black, or I'm going to go to work and I'm going to get my profits, which means I'm going to make less. So today we're going to approve, and I'm asking you, I'm going to appeal - I'm going to use any adjective - to adopt this clause, one paragraf of the Labour Code, which will really improve the terms of those 4,000 miners, that's for A. And B, which is important, these people, these renters take this replacement up to 65 years of age. And if they live to be 65 and haven't worked out years, they won't get a pension and fall into the social welfare system. So it also motivates our fellow citizens to work to meet the criteria they need for retirement. I would like to conclude by asking colleagues from the KSČM club who have a problem with this amendment to the Labour Code to at least support this amendment by my and my colleague Kaňkovský or Kaňkovský and mine, I do not want to address who is the first, it is under D, because it really is for people, it really goes across the political spectrum and will help these people. So thank you for your attention, and once again, I'm going to ask you to support the changeling under D. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u25	I thank Mr Josef Hájek. Now, Mr Radek Zlesák. A colleague of Leo Luzar will be ready. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I will ask the House for peace. There's a lot of noise here, and I'd like the man who's given the floor to use that word in a dignified environment. Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on our joint amendment, which is mentioned under the letter E in the voting procedure under this law, i.e. the support of people working voluntarily with children and young people. 1.3 billion crowns is the financial value of the work that volunteers bring to our society through their work with children and youth in their spare time. Volunteer executives, coaches, instructors spend 40 days a year of their free time on average. Without their activities, the activities of many clubs or sports clubs would not be possible at all. Our amendment does not bring any new mechanism into the Labour Code, no higher burden for employers, only extends the opportunity to apply for leave of absence for voluntary trainers who work with children and youth, and the reimbursement of five days for the performance of this activity by the state. Therefore, I would ask you to support this amendment of ours, and it will certainly return to our society in happy children and youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u27	Thank you, Mr Radek Zlesák. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Jan Farský will be ready. A colleague of Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Code, and here it has already been said, is always a problem. We pointed out that opening the labor code was like opening Pandořin's locker because various interests began to spill. A colleague of yours, Sklenák, spoke here about the fact that he managed to maintain some boundaries of the agreement. The Minister spoke of the fact that the largest trade unions had concluded a gentleman's agreement and agreed that they would simply act in agreement. But, of course, there is a question of why they did so or what the compromise was that they did. Because, of course, without compromise, there is no way to determine a gentleman's agreement, because everyone can never be satisfied. And so I ask you, where did it go? [[10.10 hours]] Of course, as a leftist politician, I always get a bell in my head when a representative of the ODS expresses a positive opinion on the Labour Code, because since the origin of this party, the Labour Code is really rightfully for them, as they say, the Red Battalion of the Bull. And it's perfectly logical. So the debates that have historically taken place here since the Labour Code have always been from the right side - it's useless law, it's preventing business, it's unnecessary giving other things. On the left side, the opposite sounded. It's a problem. And the compromise that's being suggested here is debatable. Let me draw attention to one thing, and that is what has already been mentioned here - a shared job. I see it as a pretty big problem, which I do not think should have gotten into this code of work. This Labour Code should be about the application of the European Union directives that we are obliged to do. But there's nothing about a shared job in these directives. And it is, in a way, a complement to this European directive. And I ask for one simple reason. When a shared job is explained to us, industry 4.0 automatically adds to this. It's a course of action for the future. It is a way out of this issue. But I've already warned here more than once, and the debate on the Economic Committee expects us to think that industry 4.0 is also about how employees will work under 4.0 automation and other issues when they are not actually needed. I'm stressing - they won't be needed because the machines will replace their work. And now the question is, and here it is offered in this amendment to the Labour Code, that they will actually work in that way, that for one job that one person has been doing for eight hours, there will be six people willing to share in time. But this also means that they will have a significantly lower income. Six times lower. And they're going to have to find another job to make up for that income. And they'll have to find another six jobs. But now moving between jobs, between workplaces, between employers, they'll actually be unpaid, they'll be out, they'll be on them by now. And it may happen to us that these people, instead of spending 8.5-9 hours today in the working cycle of the working day, will suddenly be 12 hours, because they have to have two or three jobs to work to make a living. But in the meantime, no one's talking about them yet. I draw attention to this because I am struck by the fact that the trade unionists who, according to the Minister, have been involved in this are recommending this in this version, as it is. Because it's not about the ones that everyone is arguing to when they say, so imagine, here's the accountant, the accountant is going to take turns with another accountant on that one job. We can imagine. Or a programmer, also a field that is able to participate in the creation of some kind of source code. But I'll bet, and here we can say that within a year and a day, but I'll bet with the secretary here that the first person to feel it will be the worst paid employees, it'll be the women who work in the big business chains at the checkout, it'll be the ones who work manually for minimum wage, it'll be all those who just have the biggest problem to live on the income they get from work. And that's what I'm worried about. And I'd like to hear that unionists aren't here today, but unfortunately they're not here to tell me how they're gonna deal with this when this shared job comes down to those who are lucky to be able to work for eight hours today. And they work for eight hours. They work hard. But they get, I don't know, 15, 16, 17,000 crowns because they work as a saleswoman. Here in this law it is suggested that they can actually agree on their own, and the employer will accept it. Madam Secretary, do you really believe that? Do you really believe that the employer will accept this and that they will agree on their own and that they will have a shared job? It's definitely not gonna be like that! The employer decides, yeah, that's convenient for me, so I'm gonna create a shared job here. Not that it's an initiative on the bottom of the staff. And they will come and say, sign here, because it's written in the law that there must be your consent. And so they're gonna sign it because they're gonna be worried about losing their job. They're gonna be worried about that lousy payday job, too. And they'll be in the hands of the employers, the business chains. I mean, it's slave labor today. And let's say that. And that's the fear I'm worried about when I read it. If there was any reward. No. It's just mathematically divided. Another problem that turns out to be compensation and leave. It's also mathematically short. They're also worked up by it. And I keep pointing out that these employees are going to make a living, because if you have eight hours of work tonight, say 20,000 crowns clean, and if the employer tells you now, this place is going to be a shared job, and either you adapt or you don't, sign here, and you're going to be three and you're going to work three hours a day, so suddenly he's not going to have $20,000, but he's going to be getting $7,000 for it. And he's gonna have to find a second paid job because he's not gonna make it. And he's gonna find her on the other side of town because she's nowhere else. How will this be dealt with? How will it be solved that employees will be forced to sign this? Are there any sanctions for that? Is there something in there? Wow. Because the longer end of the rope, the employer pulls it. And that's the problem. And I would be very happy to be able to explain to me the union bosses who made a gentleman's agreement. And most importantly, they're gonna explain it to the employees they're supposed to represent, if they really represent them properly. Because I'm very worried that it's not that the unions have failed here. And I would really like to know what kind of deal they concluded and what they agreed to do without much discussion at the time of the coronavirus, without much discussion between employees, they adopted this proposal that a shared job should be created like this in the Labour Code, which takes more care of the European Union's directives than those of employees. As for the other points, and here I think that this discussion really is not necessary, because everyone who has more than 35 years of age, I think we know the pioneer camps, the leaders. We were all there, we all praised it. And even then, those who did instructors, leaders and others had advantages within the scope of vacation and these things. So we're just going back 40 years and introducing what was here and what was canceled. So I'm sure we don't have a problem with this here. Things relating to data boxes that appear as a proposal. Of course, the electronization continues. And already many people have a personal data box. So we don't see the problem either. Of course, we also support the things that are the application of European law, because at least the European Union has always put those employees forward often before employers, and their proposals go in this direction and in this spirit. So for me, and I can say that with full conscience as a communist here, I'm very concerned about what kind of deal it was in a shared job and, most importantly, how it's applied in practice. And I think that we are really going to meet here at the debate about how this institute is being abused by those who have the lowest income, who will be thrown into social insecurity, but not by wanting and having no heart to share the same job with the co-worker, but by being forced by the employer, and instead of the current 20 grand, they will suddenly be at 10,000 and stand before they can supplement the budget so that they can live in the month. I want to point that out. I firmly believe that the Minister will know what to do with how control mechanisms and warnings will be set up for abuse. But personally, I consider it a personal great disappointment from unionists who have closed some deal. And if we ever find out what was behind this, I would be very happy to be able to talk about it here at this plenary. Because if something in the Labour Code is a problem, that's the problem of inequality between an employee and an employer. And who ever thinks the employee has a stronger position, let him come to me and try to explain it to me. I'm afraid he doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u29	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. My colleague Farský will be able to wait. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Bláha. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u30	My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I have to respond because what has been said here - so I want to respond to a fellow speaker through Mr President very simply. Times have changed, so often the right-wing parties hold left-wing positions and vice versa. And believe that the time has changed, too, in that nowadays, the employer is not pulling the longer side, but the employees are. Thanks to the fact that there are no employees on the labour market, that we are gleaning, that we have nowhere to touch, that most of the people who come from school today have only humanities, they have nothing in practice, so the employer can't dictate or choose today. And they often choose the lesser evil in the job and they have to really consider who they take and who they don't take. So I'm not worried that an employee wouldn't earn his position these days. And nowadays, when most foreign workers stayed home, so we don't have people in the fields, we don't have people in the orchards, but we don't have nurses in the hospitals, because they stayed in the infirmary with the kids. We don't have people in stores, we don't have people in productions. It's just that times are tense, getting more nervous, and I'm gonna come and explain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Farský speech will now be prepared by Olga Richterová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the amendment that we tabled with Members across all the parties represented in the House. Although the development then, as has already been said here in previous statements, it was a little more complicated. I want to introduce you to the nature of the proposal. The point is that today's huge activity in society is based on volunteers. We don't see much of her. We don't have to think about it so much in budgets, we, luckily - I think they like it - do not regulate it too much by our laws, and as if it were often not, we take it for granted. But it is, as my colleague Hnilička mentioned, from athletes, from those who spend their free time working to training sports talents, youth, and without them we would hardly ever have any representation and success in the international field. But they are also organizations through scouts, pioneers, league of forest wisdom, and others that raise children who put in their lives not only the adventure and some experiences, but of course they shape them. And that they form them in a way that is accepted and supported by society, it also shows that they are often appreciated by future employers as those who have something extra in them. Because they learn to work on the team, react and learn to motivate teams at a relatively low age, they are entrusted with responsibility for their friends, and at that age, the formative option is still huge. What adult volunteers do here is truly an immeasurable value. When someone tried to calculate it, as a colleague Zlesák mentioned here, there is talk of billions of crowns a year, which in this way brings volunteers to the company free of charge. When it was calculated how much such a leader voluntarily spends in his spare time each year, it was based on up to 40 working days, which one provides free of charge, let's say, to society. He's not suffering. He likes to do it. It's an activity that everyone has chosen voluntarily, and they don't ask for a reward for it, and even the way I talk to them, so I think that the vast majority of them, if they were to be paid, it would actually offend them. They wouldn't want it like that. But what we're dealing with here is that during the course of the year, that free time after nights, sometimes weekends can still be examined by the managers. The problem is when they have - or the trouble is not often, but it seems to me beyond the point when we tell them: if you want to train your wards free of charge in your free time at sports camps or go to a recovery event with them, take your private vacation. The Labour Code has long thought of this in § 203 letters. h). He says that those who volunteer all year round to work with children and young people can get up to three weeks of unpaid leave a year unless there are serious obstacles to the employer's side. We're saying this here, and I have to say from the experience of the manager, that often employers are off today, and that even paid, they give. Especially state-owned enterprises. And even today we will discover this in many collective agreements, when they agreed that the employer considers it such an important service to the entire company, that it will increase the days that his employee otherwise has as a vacation. We here, in agreement with all the submitters, have come up with a concept that says that the cargo in those five extra days in the quotation marks, but it's time that the volunteer has to spend with his wards, to whom he spent the entire previous year, will refund the employer. And to make sure it wasn't a huge amount, we put a limit on the average wage. And we've put a limit of five days tops. If you compare it with the fact that there are billions of values that voluntary work brings to society, and this is a budget cost of 50 million, if you compare it with the fact that even the head of some youth group devotes 40 working days a year to it, and we're talking about five days here, I think that in quotes profitability for this non-profit activity is huge. For this reason, I think that we have also managed to obtain broad support in the Chamber of Deputies, and I thank you for the fact that we are not indifferent to children and youth and that we want to meet them in this way, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u33	Thank you to Mr Farský, Mrs Olga Richterová, Mr Jiří Bláha will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u34	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, the Labour Code is one of the most important standards. On the other hand, it is good to say that what the government has put forward today is really not ambitious enough, it is not a big change. These are some very useful but minor modifications, but we still need a real change to the Labour Code. I want to comment on the government's proposal on two things, namely that what is sometimes presented as such a panacea, namely the shared job, does not solve almost anything. What makes this possible is only and only a flexible schedule of working hours for those two or more employees in one job. So the only thing that solves this is flexible schedule of working hours by the employees themselves. It remains for employers the increased cost of training two employees, of multiple medical examinations, of which accounting, etc. It just remains that two employees are more expensive than one. So two times 0.5 is not the same thing as one full-time. [[10.30 hours]] Therefore, it was also said that the shared job would only work on incentives, subsidies. And that's what I'm worried about and where I see it's useless gossiping over my head on the other ear. [[shows]] Rather, we need some accompanying relief for the employment of certain groups of persons. For the pirát, we would suggest tax relief for people who care for small children or care for people who are dependent, for example, their loved ones who have a care allowance. So that's what we would suggest for the pirát. And the second thing I would comment on is that it's a shame that, although it's kind of after a long time to change the Labour Code, besides data boxes, it's still going to be that actually the labour code will rule out electronic communication in practice, that the documents will still be registered letters. Yeah, it's possible through data boxes, but that's it. And that's where we think it should be a little bit in line with today's use of e-mails or electronic signatures, of course. And now for the amendments. There he has our support for both Mr Farský's proposal to support people who spend their free time at camps and engage in youth, so of course we also have our support for Mr Kaňkovský's proposals, where my colleague Lukáš Černohorský, who is from Ostrava, will be able to do so. And I would also mention, of course, the pirate proposal, when we are putting under number 5204 an amendment to automatically valorise the minimum wage. He's kind of the prevention of political theaters for the future for us. The point is - we know it won't be today - but to agree in the future on a mechanism that automatically increases the minimum and guaranteed wage according to the state of the economy, so that everyone knows what to expect. Today's situation, when, for example, in mid-December, employers learn how minimum wages will rise as soon as January, is unnecessarily stressful and unpredictable for the employees themselves. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] And the last thing I want to comment on is Mr Stanjura's amendment, namely the whole ODS, which wants to raise the number of hours on the work agreements to 450 hours. I think you've noticed many of you that I've been pretty busy with brokers in the last few months, and that their predicament, as it is in the labour market today, is really not good. When we realize that people who work, for example, on an employment agreement of over CZK 3,000 a month, the employer pays insurance for them. There's no problem on the revenue side of the state, but there's a problem that these people don't have any kind of vacation rights, the kind of really get to do the job. Yes, that's the flexibility, but now during the coronavirus crisis, it turns out it's risky. I wanted to interpel the Minister yesterday, unfortunately she was not present, which advises that the negotiator should somehow save the amount of emergency immediate assistance, which in 66 percent of the beneficiaries of this benefit in the last reference period was paid in the amount of CZK 50 to 999. So the negotiators have been sharpened on all fronts. The negotiators do not have the protection that employees have, even if they think that they are actually almost employees because insurance is paid for them. The negotiators did not receive support from this government. Three times this House rejected the proposals for a lower-level compensation bonus that we presented as pirát, and supported by the whole opposition, and we are now in favour of supporting another sort of disbandment of these agreements. It doesn't make sense for me. Unfortunately, the negotiators are already often under some pressure today that simply the offer is an agreement and not an employment relationship in terms of the protection of the employee. And when I add it up and I tell you the number as it is possible today, when you realize that on average working days per month - are 21.75 working days, working hours 8 hours, hours per month: 174 hours. And if you take it, it is already possible to work this way in one month 87 hours per month, and if we extend the agreement to 450 hours, it would be another 37.5 hours per month, and in one month it would be legally possible to work 124.5 hours. Do you know what time it is for a total of 174 hours a month? It is a time which, when it comes to the fact that a regular employee is supposed to be on vacation, there are also some holidays, etc., so it is clear that a broker would legally only have been employed on a single employer's behalf for 0.8 jobs. And I want to poke it out one more time. Do we really want to make it possible, as a state, to allow people to work at a single employer to work at 0.8 jobs each month? Yes, so far the students and pensioners were working in particular, but in this crisis it turned out how risky it is and how risky it is for the people who have families to stay home with the children, at first they didn't even have the infirmary, it was an incredible Martyrium for the negotiators to get the infirmary, and unfortunately they didn't even get the compensation bonus. So I'd just like to conclude with the question of whether it makes more sense to think about these flexible tools instead of this kind of release. We would suggest, in general, to rethink the tax burden on labour in general, so that there is no such difference between employing a person on a standard employment relationship and not being so motivated to push people into agreements, but to allow the four-five-year - 0.8-hour agreement work just doesn't seem reasonable. So much summary and once again I would like to point out that, unfortunately, part-times will not be supported by a purely shared job, it only regulates the possibility of flexible working time layout, so unfortunately, without subsidies, there is no incentive, and the subsidies are administratively demanding and we do not agree with the incentives being made in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Richterová. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, in his proper speech. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Code has been agreed in advance that we will not enter into our amendments. I fully honored it because I didn't want to enter into something that was agreed upon. That is why I have prepared a contribution that will reflect on how we should approach the solution of the Labour Code in the coming days. The last days and months have shown us in which the Labour Code does not work, even directly brakes, or directly forces employers to send their employees to work, to medical or to sick leave, because it is bureaucratic, it is restrictive and it is unfair. Otherwise, I can't interpret the things that arise in the employment sections. I will only read you a few things that are very important to me as an employer and that have affected the mood in most workplaces in recent days. It is Section 207, 208 and 209, where it is directly said that if an employee does work and could not carry out the work because there were no raw materials, he is entitled to a remuneration of 80 per cent. But due to the interruption of work by weather effects, it's only 60 percent. But when the coronavirus comes out, it means something that the employer didn't do, but it's under government policy, so we've determined that the employer has to pay 100 percent. And these are the contradictions that arise in the workplace. So we have employees at work who are at home, sunbathing and getting 100 percent, and then employees who go to work are doing their job, the company isn't doing their job, so the employee can't give it 100 percent, he'll give it 60 percent in the worst case, and the employee who's at home is still texting: So, what, you're still working today to make money? I'm jumping in the water right now." That's when such paradoxes take place. So that's one thing we should be dealing with, because when there are major changes in government regulations and we're not prepared for it by the code of work, different approaches are made to different layers of employees. I would also like to mention other points that are considered. This means that it is written directly on the pages of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and of course it is according to the law: Can the employer order a day-to-day vacation? Well, he can't. It can only be with employees announcing it 14 days in advance. So imagine, all of a sudden, you don't have a day-to-day job, you're dealing with employees, and you can't give him a vacation if the employee disagrees. A staff member may not do any other work unless he agrees to do so. He can't. The employer can't even shorten his work time. He can't cut employees' wages. He can't even order a job from home if the employee disagrees. But it can't even change shift settings from one day to the next. This means that if I have planned - employee, you will go to work for 14 days, so I have to keep it because the duty is to report it to the employees two weeks in advance. And this is what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will put on its website at the time of the coronation rather than supporting employers who, at any cost, tried to find a way out and help keep employees. So that's how we work, and that's how we talk, that's how we perform. And what happens? The employees I left at home at 100 percent said, "Don't count on us coming to work if you call us because we're entitled to 100 percent and we're closed down." We're not going to work. What happened was that an employee at another firm who is in the infirmary said to the employer: count on me coming on July 1st, but I'm gonna want a 14-day vacation, I've got a report. That's how some people behave. I say some. Most of them are great, but, of course, most of them aren't very hot enough to take advantage of those employees. And if the Department of Labour and Social Affairs doesn't agree to find a way out of this, and when the epidemics come and we shut down operations again, he doesn't have a work code prepared to match the situation, so what do most employers do? He'll get rid of uncomfortable employees today based on a simple equation - three times you've made a mistake, bye. And it's simple, and believe that this can be done peacefully nowadays, because most employees who don't know how they should approach their work are still acting irresponsible. And at that point, of course, we're gonna have those people in our employment offices, we're gonna pay them, no one's gonna want to hire them because those employers are gonna tell each other. How's that gonna work out? I think we're all gonna have eyes for crying. So I would suggest, let's discuss it, let's prepare - and I would recommend the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to prepare it for itself, because otherwise we will come up with a parliamentary initiative based on the pressure of employers, and I think it would be wiser here if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had prepared it. I believe that he will prepare this well and that he will give you Members of Parliament's initiative and we will put together the fact that when the expected epidemic comes in the fall, we will all be ready for it, no one will have to release, no one will be afraid to employ their employees now, because we will have a tool for how to proceed and how to approach these things. I'll tell you one more contradiction. The Labour Code states that if an agreement between an employer and an employee is possible to pay only 60 per cent at least to the obstacle to work, but we have issued a manual for employers, a targeted programme of employment support Antivirus, which is directly called: If operations have been closed, you must give 100 per cent, otherwise we will not give you 80 per cent compensation. This is how we approach things. The state could save money, the employer could save money, but most importantly, it would not occur in the workplace that the employee who works has less than the one who is at home. It is unacceptable for me, it is discriminatory and it is absolutely unmotivating in the approach of those who work. So these are things that bother me in some way. I would still like to comment on the proposed amendments to the agreements. I think of agreements as the voted evil that we've had here for 30 years, and that's evil because most companies have learned to abuse it. But they're using it on the other hand, even employees who say, "Give me more money, but you don't have to hire me officially." And unfortunately, who's taking it? The honest ones who in any case want to employ their employees are taking care of their social and health services, providing them with leave, providing them with paid holidays, providing them with a great pension, making sure that they receive sickness benefits in the event of illness. Such employers are a large part of the honest ones, but still because we have a large percentage of the wage contributions per employer, so of course there are more people who prefer to engage in an agreement or any other activity, including black ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u37	I thank Mr Jiří Bláh. Now, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová. Once again, before I give her my word, I will ask the House for peace. There's a lot of noise here, and there's no way we're gonna listen to the man who's been given the floor, and I'm not gonna talk about how hard it is with the stenographers. Just a moment, Madam President... [[Mrs Pekarová Adamová: I think it's okay now.]] Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am just very brief with the opinion of the TOP 09 club on the subject matter, the Labour Code. I think that, even in previous readings, I have made it clear that I do not consider sharing a job to be the right and best solution to support part-time work. On the contrary, I consider it necessary to support part-time work, and I imagine that form of support that we should less burden them with contributions, in particular to eliminate the injustice that they have in terms of health insurance contributions. After all, I've presented this here several times, but unfortunately there is no majority will. However, we will support the shared post, or we will support the whole amendment, because it contains a whole range of other things, and we also support the amendments tabled by a number of colleagues, because, overall, the amendment brings a whole range of improvements to the relationship between employers and employees. But what I want to warn about and what I want to call on the Minister and the entire government through this debate is that we really do not have easy years, easy times. And who can pay the most for it, in particular, are those who need the form of a job that is not on those standard eight hours a day, respectively. full-time, but those who, for whatever reason, want to work only a few hours a day, whether they are caring for a family member or a parallel study or an advanced age. And the shared job here is interpreted as the main solution, and it's also in the debates - now it doesn't sound here because it's not given by this amendment, but only by subsidy titles that are outside the legal framework - so it's been communicated in the past that they'll be supported by subsidies, that in order for the employer to really allow two people to work in one place, so the MPSV will try to prepare such incentives in the form of subsidies that we'll be handing over money from one pocket to another so that someone can get the job in this way. I consider it an extremely unfortunate way even in normal times. It's really just an effort to collect money from employers first, i.e. from taxpayers, and then wisely distribute and employ a lot of officials who will be the arbiter, whether or not he or she will receive this support here. But at these times, which we are already experiencing, I consider this to be particularly unsystemic and especially a form that takes money for what we need to strengthen as well and for which we are calling on for a long time, and that is a form of childcare, because especially for women returning from parental leave, but generally for parents returning from parental leave or those who want to work at least partially, it is simply important that they have quality childcare. It is a long-term topic, and I know that the Minister is also concerned about it, and the form of support for children's groups, which is now a topic that is really starting to burn because we know that a number of them can disappear, if the state does not significantly insert more into it, so I consider it to be much more effective and better spent public money than the form of subsidies for part-time jobs in the form of shared jobs. That's what I want to update here. We also have a few amendments ahead of us to implement the Work-life balance directive, and I believe that even within the framework of fulfilling the implementation deadline, there will be a few amendments, probably necessary in the Labour Code as well, and I therefore want to ask for an approach that will really help those groups, which, even in the wake of the crisis that is happening, will often be more vulnerable than anyone else, but we should be concerned that they too have a chance to work, so that the barriers to entry into the labour market are not as big as they sometimes have to experience today. So only to these future challenges for our labour code and, in general, for this area of employment. I want to support the amendments that are being discussed here, in particular to support Mr Farský's proposal and others, because I think that those who work in their spare time, at the expense of their families often, with young people, young children, deserve this support, and that it is something that society actually owes them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u39	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová. Now with the factual remark of Petr Pávek, a colleague of Černohorský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to briefly draw attention to the fact that this point has not been discussed by the Economic Committee, as it was intended, because of the interruption. This means that this press has been presented as a guarantee committee to the Social Affairs Committee and subsequently to the Economic Committee. I believe that on such a serious subject as the Labour Code, the view of these two committees, which, by their nature and nature, defend and judge this subject differently, is always interested in ensuring that the economy is not disturbed, virtually. In order for the economy to function as such, I just want to draw your attention to this fact, because it is because of the so-called. the coronation of the crisis has been interrupted by this discussion at the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u41	Thank you and now a colleague of Černohorský. Once again, before giving the word to the House, I will ask for peace. Please take the seats you have under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and leave the person who is duly enrolled in the debate in a dignified environment to present his discussion paper. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to support the amendment of my colleague Vít Kaňkovský and my colleague Hájek. So you'll find it under the letter D. Although many people think that the problems so called. The rent concerns only the miners, it is not so. Work accidents and occupational diseases with permanent consequences can meet almost any of us, whether we are in the field of construction, chemical industry, or most often from the heavy industry. About 15,000 people are currently taking this in the Czech Republic. In Ostrava and Karvinsko, however, because of the concentration of the heavy industry, the problem is the most pressing, and this is where it takes away the most people's permanent health damage from the job. The so-called rent, namely compensation for loss of earnings, is then calculated as the difference between the average wage in the last year of employment and the minimum wage, and that is the problem. While the system is based on social insurance in the surrounding countries, the Czech system is based on the employer's special employment responsibility for damages. Rents in the Czech Republic pay only two insurance companies, Kooperativa and Česká pojišťovna, each using a different interpretation. If you would like to get a closer look at this problem, the audit conclusion of the Supreme Audit Office has recently been published, where it deals with this system in more detail, and we will also look into it at the Audit Committee. [[11.00 hours]] But there are several problems with rents, not only the ones I described here. But he's the hottest. And it's a problem that going back to work doesn't make sense for most people who get this replacement. For if, despite their health disability, they earn more than the minimum wage, they will lose the guarantee of the rent at the original level. Renta will be irretrievably shortened to them, and even though they can, it is usually in times of crisis that they lose this job and end up without a job. The reason for this is that they have proved that they can make more money, so compensation for loss of earnings is reduced. Thus, the law punishes those who receive this compensation for finding a job higher than the minimum wage. Many of them are therefore heading to the black labour market. Which, for example, can increase the reported unemployment rate in Karvinsko. I wrote three exclamation points on this part on purpose. In this case, I would like to thank the Minister for a positive opinion on this proposal. However, I would also like to add that, in the future, the system, in addition to this partial adjustment, deserves to be revised so-called from the floor. Because the issue of general illness is perceived as another major problem. For example, when a person becomes ill with diabetes or other general illness at a later age, he loses his right to a rent. So I hope that together in the future we will also get to a comprehensive adjustment to this matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u43	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u44	Good morning again. I thank my colleague Černohorský for his support for the amendment that we mentioned here. He too deals with this issue. And I'm also glad that he mentioned here the other circles of problems that people who take compensation for loss of earnings are experiencing at this point. And as for the so-called general diseases, my colleague Hájek and I have also dealt with this issue repeatedly. We have concluded negotiations with both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and with health experts. There, of course, comes also to cooperation, which will also be needed in this regard with the Ministry of Health. It's not a very simple matter. But really, for many of those former miners or workers in the heavy industry, it's a great deal of fear every year to go on that periodic check-up to see if they'll be exposed to the so-called general disease. And what are we going to tell ourselves, people after 50 or 55 years, not to reveal some common chronic disease, such as a higher level of high blood pressure, or a higher degree of diabetes, or diabetes, and possibly heart disease? These are diseases that are common in our population. So this issue will need to be addressed and there will be a need for cooperation of at least three resorts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u45	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate, please? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? Is the secretary interested in the final word? Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u46	Thank you, Mr President, very briefly. I really want two more notes. That is Mr Farský amendment. We've been communicating very intensively about this in the last few days and weeks. And once again, I stress that, in substance, I am in agreement with this proposal. I think it is extremely important to support youth and promote sport. However, I will not give a favourable opinion on this amendment because there are, technically, several shortcomings, but also because we have made a commitment at government level, we have promised tripartite that no amendment will pass to the Labour Code, with which all parties to this agreement do not agree. However, I have offered to Mr Farský that, in the next amendment to the Labour Code, which will be introduced in the next few months, we can work on this proposal in the amendment. And once again, I stress that I support youth, I support sport. It's a government priority, but there are procedural reasons for disagreeing. With regard to President Stanjura's amendment, which proposes an increase in labour agreements from 300 to 450 hours, it is logically typical - President Stanjura complained that there is no right-wing centre. So let me just point out that this is a typical example of precaring work. I think at this difficult time, and I think that the coronation crisis has shown it's very dangerous when people lose their jobs day by day without any insurance, no certainty, no perspective, that's exactly the direction we shouldn't be going. This means, logically, automatically, this amendment, I think that no one expected it otherwise, a dissenting position. And it's a typical example of precaring work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u47	Thank you. The rapporteur has no interest in the final word. So we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur to brief us on the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u48	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. So let me just remind you that the amendments were sent to you as press 689/4 on 11 May. The Social Policy Guarantee Committee proposes the following procedure. First of all, we would vote on possible proposals for legislative technical amendments, but they were not presented at third reading. We would then vote on Amendment B to Mr Stanjura. Then on the amendments C1, C2 and C3, tabled by Mr Bauer. Subsequently, D by Mr Kaňkovský, E by Mr Farský, F by Mrs Richterová, G, which is my amendment. And then the amendment. And with the fact that if Amendment G had been adopted, we would have voted on Amendment A in the wording of the adopted amendment under letter G.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u49	Thank you. That was the design of the procedure. Does anyone have a counterproposal or a reminder to the procedure? No. We will therefore vote on the draft procedure as presented by the rapporteur. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 63, 179 Members registered, for 172, against no one. We've approved the procedure and we'll follow it. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u50	Thank you. So we would vote first on the amendment referred to in letter B tabled by Mr Stanjura. This is an increase in volume for agreements to carry out work from 300 to 450 hours. The Guarantee Committee does not recommend an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u51	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 64, 182 Members signed in, for 64, against 22. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u52	The following is Amendment C1 of Mr Bauer, which is the repeal of the provision that the sum of the duration of the weekly working hours of employees in one shared post must not exceed the duration of the weekly working time. The Guarantee Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u53	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, 182 Members registered, for 53, versus 20. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u54	Another proposal is the amendment C2 by Mr Bauer, which states that unless agreed otherwise in the contract of employment, the employer may order representation of an absent employee at the same shared post. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u55	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 66. Registered 182 Members, for 53, versus 48. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u56	The following is Amendment C3 of Mr Bauer, which sets out the monthly period of notice. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u57	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 67. Registered 182 Members, for 81, against 45. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u58	We will now vote on the amendment under letter D by Mr Kaňkovský, which is the abolition of the principle of so-called stop-loss for termination in the register of job seekers. The Guarantee Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u59	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 68. Registered 182 Members, for 175, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u60	The following is the amendment E by Mr Farski, namely the introduction of a weekly paid leave for employees working in children's camps and sports camps. The Guarantee Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u61	Madam Secretary? [[Youth support is a priority, but for procedural reasons disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 69. 179 Members registered, for 165, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u62	We will now vote on the amendment under the letter F to Mrs Richterová, which introduces an automatic valuation of the minimum wage at the level of 0.46 times the average wage. The Guarantee Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u63	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70. Registered 182 Members, for 62, versus 9. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u64	The amendment under letter G follows, which is my amendment, which essentially regulates the amendment adopted by the Committee on Social Policy and reduces the threefold effectiveness of Section 363 of the Labour Code. The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u65	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 71. Registered 183 Members, for 170, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u66	The last amendment under letter A follows, which is the amendment of the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy, which reduces triple effectiveness only to double, as of 30. 7. this year and 1. First year next year. I would like to point out, in accordance with the procedure adopted, that it is precisely because we have just approved the amendment under letter G, that we will now vote on this proposal, but in the wording of Amendment G already adopted, I hope that this is understandable. The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-001-258.u67	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 72, registered by 183 Members, for 179, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We voted on all the amendments. Now we're going to vote on the whole bill. The resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, and some other related laws, according to the House press 689, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73. Registered 183 Members, for 179, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point.
