ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, and some other laws /German press 545/ - second reading I will ask the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová to take her place at the rapporteur's table. I will ask Mr Jan Chvojka, who is the rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, to do the same, and I will also ask for the presence and attention of Mr Aleš Juchelka, who is the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy. I remind you, we're at second reading. Once the situation has calmed down, Minister Marie Benešová is prepared to present the bill on behalf of the government. Madam Secretary, I hope it will be quiet enough for your opening words. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u2	Good afternoon. I'll be very brief because the law is already in second reading and I've already introduced it. He's very important. I am not at all pleased with the way it develops, because there are a number of parliamentary proposals that literally make it a potato potato, and some of the proposals go against each other, so they are not compatible. Nevertheless, we have tried to write a law that will help people, and it will mainly be aimed at solving multiple executions. We have proposed measures to limit the number of execution proposals submitted and ensure that the unsuccessful execution procedures are terminated at an appropriate time. In essence, we have proposed the following measures: concentration of enforcement proceedings, introduction of compulsory advances on execution costs, regulation of cessation of effective executions after three years. And we have solved some of the problems arising from practice, such as anchoring compensation for the payer's wages. We also tried to introduce the duty of the Executor Chamber to provide statistical data to the Ministry of Justice, which we now use in vain. As regards the current discussions, the Constitutional and Legal Committee recommended that a number of amendments be adopted on the proposal. Some of them can be agreed with, but some of them we fundamentally disagree with. I also reject that the Ministry of Justice and, in particular, the legislation of the Ministry of Justice should be involved in some way in adapting amendments that I do not agree with. I find that a little cynical and completely unnatural. They are parliamentary proposals, so Members should adjust them. Our legislation serves other objectives and I think it has a number of tasks and they need to be fulfilled. [[17,00 hours]] As far as the material is concerned, a resolution was last adopted when it was recommended that the proposal be approved and a number of parliamentary proposals were recommended. I am not going to comment on them yet, there are a lot of them, and I would quite welcome the time for our legislation to check out the proposals properly, and so to rule out what is not compatible and what, then, how to stand up to it, because it really makes such a cat dog. So that is about all for starters, and we will see how the situation develops and how the Members will deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice, Marie Benešová, and I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Social Policy Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House prints from 545/1 to 545/4. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee of the Constitutional Law Jan Chvojka to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, or perhaps early evening after the change of time, colleagues. I'll follow up on the Minister of Justice. We're getting closer, or we're basically in the second reading that we've come to with these snail steps, but at such a snail's pace, when we've had this print of 545 here for almost a year and a half. When I look at the genesis, it was sent by the government to the House on July 9th last year and the first reading took place on November 6, 2019, which we have in some week anniversary of one year since the first reading. And it is true that, of course, such a press, a press of such importance, deserves a detailed discussion. From that first reading, of course, logically the proposal went to the committee not only as a guarantee to the committee of constitutional law, where the genesis of his discussion in this committee was relatively long. Of course, the negotiations took place not only on the basis of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, but also on the basis of the subcommittee on insolvency and execution, and I am glad because these are things that deserve adjustment but also a very rich discussion. Several times, the press has been interrupted, whether on the subcommittee or on the board of the guarantee constitutional law committee, with the fact that today we finally have it here and waiting for second reading. Unfortunately - and I will get to the resolution - the sum of the negotiations on the Constitutional and Legal Committee at the end of September is such that there was indeed approved, as the Minister of Justice said, a very large number of adjustments. When I look at the resolution, it is nineteen pages of the text, and that is why the committee decided - and in a moment why I am reading the whole resolution - that it is basically a comprehensive amendment, which should be proposed in the second reading, that is, let us please take it as a basis for submitting amendments at second reading. I shall read the resolution as a whole. The resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee of 23 September 2020 reads as follows: [[I.]] The Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal; [[II.]] recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt these amendments and additions to this bill. - Like I said, it's like 18 and a half pages of pure text. I am not going to read it, but you have it, of course, in your House of Deputies system; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; IV. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of this draft law at the meeting on the Constitutional Legal Committee and to recommend its further consideration as amended by the amendments adopted; [[V.]] Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations. I will ask this legislation and I will look at the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, whether the figure of the four resolutions is what we talked about, that is, whether the resolution - empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and recommend its further discussion as amended by the amendments adopted - is what we discussed. Yes, it is, that is, that is, I have read the whole resolution this way, and I propose, as I said, to vote specifically once again on point four, when we have to make amendments to this very complex and long amendment, which was adopted on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee and has nineteen pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the constitutionally-legal committee. This proposal was also addressed by the Committee on Social Policy. The rapporteur is Mr Aleš Juchelka, who is not present, so Mr Kaňkovský will introduce us to the Committee on Social Policy instead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u6	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. The Committee on Social Policy dealt with this press a long time ago, it was on 9 January, at its 41st meeting and interrupted the discussion of this point until the constitutionally-legal committee was discussed. The whole resolution is part of House document 545/1, which is available, and until now the Committee on Social Policy has no longer dealt with this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u7	Thank you. And before I open the debate, we should deal with the proposal that has been made here by the constitutionally-legal committee, as the rapporteur Jan Chvojka has introduced us to him. Excuse me? [[A voice from the diaper: Can it be a counterproposal?]] It may be counterproposal. There is a procedural proposal, we should vote here immediately on this proposal... [[Consulting off the microphone.]] I am interrupting the session of the Chamber of Deputies for two minutes at the moment, and we need to clarify this situation so that we can vote correctly. We'll continue at 17.09 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 17.09 o'clock, we will continue our negotiations. In the meantime, the situation is both legislatively and politically resolved, and we will actually proceed to the vote at this point on the proposal from the Constitutional Legal Committee, as presented here by the rapporteur of the Committee, Mr Jan Chvojka. I have summoned Members who are not in the hall. I'll wait a little bit. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. So we are voting on a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The number 179 votes 79 Members, for 66, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm opening the debate. The debate is attended by Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Dear Government, fellow Members, yes, the debate of this House press, the amendment to the Civil Code and the order of execution is complex. I confirm the words of both the Minister and the rapporteur. Just to be clear, we have now voted that a second reading will continue in the text of the amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Of course, the situation at the moment de facto does not allow for a second reading, because the original government proposal, the original government draft, actually recognises fundamental changes and additions. I certainly wouldn't call it the Minister's words here, that it's some kind of mishmash, or I don't know exactly what that word is right now - potato sauce, so I certainly wouldn't. We, on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, followed the same objectives as the Minister. We really want to help, and I stress, in a balanced way, to help make sure that the result here is not some way of leaning forward, whether on that side of the extension, or on that side of the verification. The system must work, it must also be identified by the bailiffs, just all affected actors. I am pleased that the Vice-Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Enforcements, Insolvencys and Debtion Patrik Nacher here nods in agreement. We, ladies and gentlemen, have repeatedly devoted ourselves to this press on the subcommittee, and now I do not know whether it was five or six meetings. I feel that we have had the most record-breaking subcommittee in this Chamber of Deputies, so we have actually taken this seriously, and we have been doing so in detail on the constitutionally-legal committee in, I think, two or three negotiations. What is needed now to clarify, then, who will prepare the text for which amendments will be tabled, as is standard at second reading. I would consider it very logical, and I would ask the Minister here publicly, in order to actually reach a high-quality outcome, a legislative and legally high-quality outcome, so it would be good to - but it has its logic, because, Madam Secretary, it is still a government press, a government draft, and you have rightly said here, and I agree with you that you want to achieve a good result so that, as far as possible, the draft is prepared by the legislation of the Ministry of Justice, but it is at some of your negotiations with the House of Legislation. I believe we will come to some reasonable conclusion. As chairman of the subcommittee, I promise to be a guarantor and to deal with the actors so that we can really move this thing forward faster than the snail's pace, as the rapporteur said. That's what I think is important, too. Well, my friends, the fun is over. The impact of COVIDU-19 will not be entirely small for the execution environment, and we must prepare for it. So, for the moment, Mr Vice-President, I am putting forward a procedural proposal that we interrupt the discussion of the Parliamentary press 545 at second reading, until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which begins, I believe, sometime at the beginning of December. In the meantime, I believe that within a few weeks we will have a legislative text available for which, colleagues, you can then prepare proper amendments, or adjust those you are already prepared, so that a second reading can then take place. Of course, even with the fact that here, I suppose, there will be those proposals that did not pass on the Constitutional and Legal Committee and are absolutely essential because they affect, for example, territoriality, etc. and other things. So there's gonna be room for that at second reading. And now, in accordance with the agreement with the Minister and the rapporteur, I am making this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-004-025.u10	Yes, there was a procedural proposal in the debate. We will vote on it immediately. I have already called in Members and Members who have not been in the O.R. The proposal is that we interrupt the second reading of this point until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We are ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 180, 83 Members registered, for 80, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and, in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am interrupting this point. Now we're going to look at point number
