ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u1	382. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on Article 3 of the Foreign Ministers I ask that the plaintiff of this point, Mr Miroslav Janulík, take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. My colleague, Janulík, agrees, and as soon as the House calms down, colleagues will either take their seats, or they will transfer the discussions to the lobby, so I will give him my word. That is not the case yet. Wait a little longer, colleague. There. Once again, a brief call for colleagues to take their seats or any discussion of a problem other than that of the three foreign ministers to be transferred to the foyer. Just a little while longer. There. Now I think you'll be excused, Mr. Colleague. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, of course, have asked to add this point to the logic of the matter, because I am the chairman of the inter-European group of friends of the Czech Republic - Israel and the article in question, which we are talking about here, has rudely left ours, I would say, standard positions, and we are dealing with it because the authors of this article are two former, one current or future former foreign minister, of which two are active members of our current government and, therefore, from the logic of the matter, because in a rough way, according to some colleagues, our relationships have been disrupted - I think that our relations have not disturbed it, but it has simply deviated from some framework of our standard positions, so I want the House to deal with this on my proposal, and I would like to tell you some of the positions that I have registered. Some of them are mine, some of my colleagues, and I'd like you to take that into account. Of course, the foreign committee has taken a stand on the whole matter, which makes sense. I presume that the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Červíčková, will then present his resolution here. Lately, foreign policy in our important sessions has been entering unnecessary turbulence, and where we have been a readable and calculating partner, we find ourselves one-sided, in government and in the House undisputed steps not only on the opinional periphery, but also putting our friends in strategic ties into uncertainty. In the case of Israel, the President, the Prime Minister, the President of the Chamber of Deputies and others must respond. Of course, no one has ever explained why the article in question was actually published, why it was not properly consulted, why it was not discussed with the Israeli partners and who followed it. If a hybrid threat commission is to be set up here - or has been established - and foreign influences, it could examine as one of the first tasks whether this article was not involved in the intentions of particular or even non-Czech interests. I welcome the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also dealt with the matter on 11 June and has adopted a resolution that I have already mentioned above. In this context, it is important that the Chamber of Deputies as a whole last year adopted a resolution on anti-Semitism and calls for the boycott of the State of Israel. Each meeting of the highest constitutional officials discusses the topic of Israel and specifically the transfer of our embassy to Jerusalem. But it turns out it's not enough. There will be an article - he is not a letter, but it is an article - that goes against the conclusions of these meetings. It will cause a shock at home and great concern in Israel. Let's just say our Israeli friends just pulled out their eyebrows, and because we're friends, they didn't make a very public comment. Its only justification is that it does not deviate from the concept of foreign policy from 2015. This concept has not been presented to this House or to the previous. In July 2015, a round table was held here in the House. It is true that it was approved by the government, but it was a past government, and it was at a time when no new peace plan was on the table, and the Israeli government was in the strict limits of the 1993 Oslo peace process, which aimed at a two-state solution at that time. The article came out in spite of the conclusions of the last, i.e. the current meeting of constitutional officials of 11 March 2020, i.e. the Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček, and I quote: "We are expressing the hope that the United States Peace Initiative Peace to Prosperity is a concrete proposal that has the potential to give the Middle East peace process a new dynamic that will restore both sides' direct action. " The article came out despite the assurance of constitutional officials that it would eventually be withdrawn from the journal Law, at least that I have information, because of my inappropriate diplomatic form, partly certainly the content and purpose I do not know, and also the timing, because it preceded the telephone call of Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and the telephone call of Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanjahu. At the last meeting, there were even slogans about anexi, parallels of Czechoslovakia in 1938 and 1968, even sharp expressions such as Nazis etc. I see it the other way around. The militant part of Palestinec, with the support of certain forces in the region, has terrorized the civilian population in Israel for years, wants to wipe it off the map, uses such pejorative terms as viper's nest in Tel Aviv, etc. I think it's embarrassing and undignified to compare Israel to expansionary Nazi Germany. On the contrary, the Sudeten Němec referred to Palestinec as a nation without statehood in 1938 and over the next decades. To the historical parallel presented by the Minister of Culture, Mr Zaorálk, I would point out that the situation of Palestinec and arab has always been taken by the Nazis. It was a accompanying ideology of anti-Semitism for them. As an example, I would quote from the expression of Reich Chancellor Adolf Hitler from the pre-Munich crisis in September 1938, when I quote: "Poor Arab are defenseless, perhaps abandoned. The Germans in Czechoslovakia are neither defenseless nor abandoned. Let that be noted." So it's just how very, very analogies and parallels are limping. Another unacceptable analogy to me is the annexation of Crimea. Israel does not occupy the territory of a foreign state, and this is also a security aspect for the entire region. The state of Israel has been in the territory since 1948 and cannot leave it. The essence of the peace proposal is to extend civil jurisdiction to the part of the settlement that already exists. The resulting solution will depend on the agreement. Let us acknowledge that we would be better off living without such articles. In chess terminology, the President, the Prime Minister and the President of the House should do so. forced thrust and call, but I don't think that should happen again. It is not possible to simplify the situation to the fact that everything is wrong with what Israel will do. On Monday, rockets from Gaza began to fly again, and no one even took a breath. Nobody notices, not even our media. Everyone already thinks it's basically folklore. It is immoral to demonize Izrael, but especially those who do not maintain any relationships there, or it has been a long time since they dealt with an Israeli representative. That's for the minister of culture margo. But it is done by progressive leftist movements in Western Europe that have no creative political agenda and reflect their ideological struggle on the world map. The one against Trump, as in Obamamania, in this case it's a progressive left, the idea of a villain here is Netanjahu. International law is formed, created by negotiations, agreements that can overcome the previous status quo. It is actually given by international law, although its interpretation in the Middle East is usually always diametrically different. The current situation is not new. Let us remember the unification of Germany or the emergence of Czechoslovakia on the basis of the collapse of Austria-Hungary, i.e. by disrespecting the constitution and laws of that time. Just sometimes reality, creativity and fantasies can outrun the status quo and we should encourage Izrael on this path to act and make another attempt in an endless series, not to reprimand it, mentor and write to the newspapers what it does wrong. [[11.00 hours]] There is always one layer above international law and it is an imperative of peace. In the Middle East, support for the radical Palestinian agenda continues to decline, particularly in Saudi Arabia, Oman, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, whose ruling politicians, like the Trumpův administration in the United States, have radically reduced financial support for the Palestinec. Unlike the article of our ministers, these Arab countries are open to a new peace plan and do not condemn it in any way. I'd take the liberty of putting a little bit of input on Israel's and Palestine's relations here. Remember, in the 19th century, the Holy Land was very sparsely populated. More important Arab immigration did not start until the 19th century. The Brit prevented the Žid arab entering Palestine, while the Arab settlement continued, and, as a result, more arab than Žid lived in Britain's mandate Palestine prior to Israel's emergence. Of course, more than half of the Žid came from Muslim countries at the turn of the century, this must be realized as a result of killing and expulsion. The Palestinec have largely squandered the opportunity for their state. I just recommend your attention to the fact that there have been no democratic elections in Palestine for 14 years, so I think that's a really good record. The Palestinec refused to divide Palestine into a Jewish and Arab state and started an extermination war. Now about 20 percent of the ethnic Arab population lives in Israel. The leaders of Palestine are led by irreconcilable hostility to all Izraelec, and their goal is "Palestine from Jordan to the Sea, " where there is no place for any Jewish State of Israel. Surely you will recognize that this starting point is perhaps unacceptable. In their concept, the žid are "settlers," not only those living behind the green lines, but also those living in the internationally recognized State of Israel, i.e. the pre-1967 border. Israel's support for its struggle for survival has been one of the bright aspects of our foreign policy since 1989. Many - particularly leftist - politicians in the EU have a strong pro-Palestinian stance, have a consistent pro-Palestinian policy, and are based on the Palestinian theory of a stolen country. I'm saying it doesn't have much room here, because we don't, none of our parties have any Muslim electorate - thank God. And in Western Europe, I see those politicians, the struggle for votes, like the pro-Palestinians for these very reasons, because they have a prominent Muslim electorate because of their actions that last decades. And we don't have it -- pay God. Throughout Israel's existence, politicians from all over the world and NGOs send billions of euros into dysfunctional structures. Palestinian Authority. I advise everyone to go physically to see where and how the money ends, because apparently the means for terrorist activity are being used. Hamas is a terrorist organization that controls Gaza, Fatah is without democratic legitimacy, running from the capital so-called. Authority in the West Bank. But both entities claim to be the Palestinian government. If, theoretically, the West Bank had been handed over to some Palestinian entity, there is a real danger that it would have become a similar center to Gaza. The Palestinec' independent state, with today's eyes, is, at least in my opinion, little real. It would also be a danger to Jordan and the region. There are many other solutions between the common state and two states. Certain elements of self-government, autonomy, etc. etc. It could be anything, but of course they have to find the solution themselves. It's hard to give them, like us, some princely advice in this case. It was tried by the UN, the European Union, Obama, all together. So don't blame Trump for trying anything else that he doesn't want to copy Obama. But again, I wouldn't have seen him try. He's just, they're looking together with the Izraelec, or respectively. The Izraelec themselves are looking for a solution, because up until now, it's stuck, and it doesn't do anything but... I recommend to everyone that they try to download an app into their smart cell phones, which warns Israeli citizens about rockets, and you wonder how often that app will wake you up at night and warn you about flying rockets. Colleagues referred to international law as the largest Palestinian support, and UN Security Council Resolution No. 2334 from 2016. That's how the current Minister of Culture commented, who still can't get rid of the stigma that he was a foreign minister. The resolution was adopted on 23 December 2016. She passed because Obamův's administration didn't apply the veto against her, but she just abstained. It states that settlement constitutes a manifest violation of international law, but it is not legal. It does not contain any sanctions or measures adopted under Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations. It is of no real importance even from the point of view of international law. And he can't have it. It is one of the long series of UN resolutions condemning Israel, at the same time overlooking violations of agreements by the Palestinian Party, such as the encouragement of terrorism and the rejection of peaceful coexistence. He urges Israel to put an end to this activity and only to its duties as an occupying agency. Israel says that it is not occupied but disputed territory, and refers to the results of the 1967 six-day war after it was attacked. At the time of adoption of the resolution, 570,000 Izraelec lived in settlements on the West Bank. The adopted version of the resolution denies the principle enshrined in Resolution 242 of 1967. This is not advantageous for Palestinec supporters because it has become the basis for Israel's functional peace agreements with Egypt and Jordan, and finally the Oslo agreements, which are based on the mantra of today's opponents of Trumpův's plan. So something's convenient. Something's not right. This resolution provides that the peace is to be achieved by the negotiations to be held in order to agree on safe and recognised borders. According to experts, it was a mistake that Resolution 2016 started to talk about the 1967 borders and the occupied Palestinian territories. He began to anticipate the outcome of the negotiations. This is, therefore, a political, situational proclamation that has deflected the matter in the UN Security Council on the one hand and has added the strength of Palestinian intransigence. I'm just keeping an overview of the most important rejections of peace negotiations. In 1937: In 1937 the Jerusalem Mufti Hajj Amin Al Husseini, who became the leader of the arab, rejected all proposals before the Peel Commission for any division of Palestine at the time, promoted deportation, later the total extermination of all Palestinian and European Žid, and swore to his people that if ever a Jewish state was established in Palestine, he would not survive a single Žid. In 1947: UN Resolution 181 on the division of Palestine into a Jewish and Arab State of 29. 11. 1947. Muftí and the other Palestinian and Arab leaders rejected this proposal and attacked the newly founded State of Israel in order to expel or murder all the Jewish people there. Arab leaders threatened the Izraelec with genocide. One of them was Azam Paša, Secretary General of the Arab League, and he declared 15. 5. 1948, the day after the state of Israel declared that it would be a war that would destroy Žid, like crusades and Mongolian bloodbaths together. End of quote. In 1967: Israel's peace proposals to the Palestinec and the surrounding Arab states after the 1967 six-day war. After the Egypťan took over the entire Sinai Peninsula, moved their army there, ordered UN troops to clear this territory, blocked Izrael's entire Akab Strait, forcing the Izraelec to take a preventive strike against the Arab armies that wanted to destroy Israel. During the six - day war, the Izraelec defeated the Egypťan, the Syřan, and the Jordánec, and conquered the old Jerusalem, Sinai, all of Judah, and Samaria. See the West Bank and the Golan Heights, of course. I suggest we take a look, those Golan Heights are a clear strategic point from which you can shoot artillery at the entire state of Israel. However, even after a great victory, the Izraelec were willing to make peace with all their Arab neighbors and with the Palestinec themselves, but the Arab position at that time was clear: no peace, no action, no recognition. The first era of Jasir Arafat from 1965 to 1989 was the successor of Mufti Husseini. He refused to recognize Israel's state at any borders, and he became a leader of the PLO. He led a military, terrorist fight against Izraelec and Žid anywhere in the world. The terrorist group Black September, linked to the PLO, was responsible for the massacre of Israeli Olympics in Munich. In addition to anti-Israeli terrorism, he was also responsible for the overall devastation of the Middle East, including the civil war in Lebanon, 1975 to 1991, supporting Saddám Husajn's aggression in Kuwait in 1991. Immediately after Anvar Sadat concluded a peace treaty with Israel in 1979, Arafatův's PLO immediately called for the boycott of Egypt and its expulsion from the Arab League, it lasted until 1989. The remaining Arab states cut off diplomatic relations with Egypt, and arab visiting Egypt were considered traitors and spies. Now I would mention the peace process of Oslo of 1993 - this is the second era of Jasir Arafat, perhaps the most promising period for peace. Arafat entered into peace talks with Israel in Madrid and later Oslo, which led to the conclusion of an agreement on 13 September 1993 in Washington on autonomy in Gaza and Jericho. The deal was made under the patronage of President Bill Clinton. Together with Šimon Peres and Jicchak Rabin, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded in 1993 by Jásir Arafat. A bit of a contradiction, but okay. [[11.10 hours]] In 1995, Arafat signed an agreement to extend autonomy - Oslo II. On 20 January 1996, elections took place in the territory of Palestinian autonomy, the Palestinian Council was elected and Arafat became President. Ramallah in the West Bank became the seat. Although Palestinian and Israeli politicians made a peace agreement between themselves, on the basis of which Arafat and his PLO officially recognised Israel's right to exist and had renounced terrorism, these hopes proved completely empty. The Palestinec never ratified these agreements in their parliament at the time and, on the contrary, they never complied with them; they considered them merely a step forward to the destruction of Israel. In fact, they never agreed, and to this day most of them do not agree with the two-state solution. Immediately after the signing of the so-called peace treaty, the first Palestinian Intifada broke out and bloody terror began. There was a summit in Camp David in 2000. The Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak offered Arafat a number of far-reaching concessions under a comprehensive peace agreement. He wanted to hand over 98 percent of Judea and Samaria, the West Bank, including ancient Jerusalem to Palestinian arab. In return, Arafat was to put an end to the wave of anti-Israeli violence and end the conflict. The PPE rejected the whole proposal without offering any counterproposals. The leaders of the PLO called for the second intifada - the intifada al-Aksá - and all of Israel was hit by a wave of terrorist assassinations. The state lost at least a thousand of its citizens due to this rage. A withdrawal from Gaza took place in 2005. In 2005, the Israeli government led by the late Prime Minister Ariel Šaron unilaterally evacuated all its inhabitants from Gaza and from some villages in the north of Judea and Samaria, but there was no peace in Israel, on the contrary. Within two years of Israel's withdrawal from Gaza, Palestinec from Hamas took over this territory and began to launch dozens - now thousands - of missiles on southern Israel. Rocket fire on Israeli cities near Gaza continues today with certain breaks. At the beginning, it was those cassamas made on the knees of gas pipes, today thanks to generous support from the European Union, they are rockets that can shoot not 20, but already 160 km to Tel Aviv. In 2008, Mahmúd Abbás comes to power. In 2008, former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert offered the successors of Arafat Mahmúd Abbás, called Abu Mázin, or Father of War, a large peace proposal, virtually identical to Barakův, the return of all the territory behind the 1967 Green Line, actually the same territories that are officially claimed for themselves by contemporary Palestinian leaders before the whole world, but even then Abbás rejected this proposal. Israel's peace proposals are insufficient, unacceptable, for Abbás and other Palestinian policies. Many have argued and still claim that the gaps are too large, that what the Palestinec demand and the Izraelec offer is unacceptable, etc. etc. Palestinian politicians only want a single Arab Palestine from the Jordan River to the sea. Israel's cities, contrary to the facts, describe themselves as Palestinian, including those located outside the internationally recognized 1967 borders. The current state of Israel is likened to the Crusader states that have perished, so according to them, this one will perish, no matter if in a hundred, two hundred or three hundred years. And for that reason, they're not really trying to make peace with each other. They believe that time plays in their behalf, and they keep their people consciously and deliberately in rather difficult living conditions, to stir up hatred between them for all Israel and the Jewish. In 2019 to 2020, Netanjahu, supported by the US administration, represents the so-called century agreement, but the Palestinian leadership rejected this American proposal a year ago without ever seeing it and getting acquainted with it. All she had to do was read something in the paper. His leaders refused to attend the economic conference in Bahrain at the end of June 2019 and prevented other Palestinec from attending. As soon as the plan was published, Abbás strongly opposed it and declared: A thousand times we say no, no, not this agreement of the century. We rejected her from the start, and we were right. And Mahmúd Abbás calls the treaty of the century a conspiracy. The Palestinec never missed the opportunity to miss the opportunity. The objection to the deviation from the line of our foreign policy is clear. Parliament and many individual Members are not representatives of the executive or its component in foreign relations, but we are representatives of the people, i.e. citizens. Unlike a member of the government, a Member has the right to formulate his opinion on a specific foreign policy issue, in particular through consideration, especially when it concerns future developments. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot limit us to the concept that government policy is implementing. The last foreign policy concept adopted by the then government, as I said, is from 2015. In Parliament, if you remember, it was merely presented to us, and only to the selected Members of the four committees, and that was a form of a round table. On the other hand, it is good to coordinate our positions. Parliament's diplomacy should also take place within a framework, and I think it is. That is why the president is convened meetings of top constitutional officials to foreign policy about quarter, as far as I know. It is not true that for all questions we must have a unified view of everything, but the question of the future arrangement of Israel and the Palestinec is an open process that many politicians of the world are entering, which, of course, may be their right, but if I were on the other side, I feel a little hurtful, because someone who doesn't know anything about them is talking to me about my domestic affairs. I'd sum up the attitude on the article. Don't lecture, don't give advice. An essential element is Israel's agreement with the Palestinian representation, or with the Palestinians in the West Bank, to which this applies, so that no model can be eliminated in advance, especially when no peace negotiations are being held and the Oslo agreement is not being implemented. From this point of view, the American-Israeli plan is an impulse because it brings a new perspective into a frozen situation. The plan is yet to be discussed in Israel's new parliament, because, as you know, there have been enough elections. The population can no longer be separated, I have seen it with my own eyes, new injustices would arise, and some new Palestinian state on the West Bank would be better forgotten. If I were asked, all I would say to the Izraelec myself is that the Palestinec and all the people they want to control are to give the same rights, otherwise they can expect big problems, or the same rights as the Izraelec do. I do not want to glorify our relationship with Israel, but it is a fact that we have a good reputation, we even have a positive trade balance, we have complementary industries, research, added value for industry, and many good results from our mutual relations. I'd rather not mention Trumpův's plan here. Opticism of international law - I would mention that here, because many people curse that under international law, the occupation is provisional control of a territory that is not part of an occupation of power without the consent of a real territorial sovereign. So these conditions aren't even fulfilled here. The last landlord here used to be the Ottoman Empire, which died in 1922. I think that, in light of this international law, it cannot be separated from reality, but the ban on the acquisition of territory by force is one of the fundamental pillars of post-war international law, but it is not possible to see the specific nature of Israel's position on the West Bank, or it is very difficult to graft on here. International law is based on precedents and should be consistent with the reality that international security requires. Then I would probably try to make a motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. I suppose we'll vote on him. For now, that's all for me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u3	I thank my colleague Janulík. I'm opening the debate. First of all, the Member and Chairman of the Foreign Committee is Mr Veselý. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I propose that the rapporteur of this item be the rapporteur of the foreign committee Monika Červíčková. I think it has logic. I told you last time we talked about it. So I propose that we vote on Monika Červíčková as rapporteur for the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u5	Thank you. This is a legitimate procedure, because it is, of course, part of the Rules of Procedure, but it is our practice that if the rapporteur is not the rapporteur, it is not discussed in the committee, here it was the other way around, so that the rapporteur becomes a petitioner. I'm going to sign you off, I'm going to have my colleagues who I've asked to bring their discussions to the lobby. [[11.20 hours]] We will vote on the proposal for a foreign committee rapporteur, who will also be rapporteur for the House, in a vote of 231. I'll wait for the number of entries to settle... I have begun voting number 231 and I ask who is in favour of the rapporteur's proposal. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 231 from the present 117 for 114, against no one. I will therefore ask my colleague to take up her intelligence report and sit at the rapporteur's table. With a point of fact, Mr Kobza has entered into the debate. I opened the debate, and my colleague Veselý was the first. I don't know what he's gonna react to, but it's an actual application. Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'd take the liberty of responding to my colleague, Janulík, through you. The fact is that Czech foreign policy has recently lost its directness, lost its readability, we have ceased to be, to say the least, easy to understand for our partners. It is basically the whole time that foreign policy controls social democracy. And the foreign policy centre in terms of international or transnational or global policy shifts to completely insignificant municipal politicians and the government does not distance itself from them, does not distance itself from these views. And this, of course, is very bad, because it was against Israel and against Palestine that the Czech policy has always been completely consistent, absolutely permanent, clearly readable in the long run. We are linked with Israel by friendly relations, common cultural roots, and also respect for the Palestinec. The letter was not a good idea, it essentially questioned in some way the permanence and straightforwardness of Czech politics, and I think it would be optimal if the government adopted a resolution that this letter was not an expression of official Czech foreign policy, and thus essentially removed the smoke of doubt, which then hovers over Czech foreign policy from both sides, that is, both from Israel and from the Palestinian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u7	The time has ended for your point of order. So now, according to the order, so far, the enlisted colleague, Mr Janulík and Mr Valenta, is in the debate, so I will give the floor to Mr Janulík. He's giving him up, so Mr. Jiří Valenta in the debate. He's not here, so he's failing his application, but... [[Voices in the hall: He's here!]] Yeah, I'm sorry, of course. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, I won't be long. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still talking about possible damage to Czech relations with Israel, mainly due to the incriminated and mentioned public statement by Ministers Zaorálek and Petříček, who basically gave their opinion, and perhaps only because the government has not yet had a common position that might be relevant in this regard. Either she doesn't have it or she hasn't communicated it yet, at least I haven't registered it. While Prime Minister Andrej Babiš continues to declare that the government is the foreign policy of the Czech Republic as a whole and that the declarations of individual ministers are unfortunate, let us ask him what he did in addition to putting his head in the sand before some of the problems of foreign policy. In this respect, I see a huge handicap not only of his, but rather of the entire government he runs. And so the ministers must express themselves semi-officially. And I'm not going to and I don't want to discuss whether their expression is happy or less happy on this matter. In the same spirit, the government remained silent, for example. On the subject of the banderos and their leader, the war criminal Stepan Bandera. So only the Foreign Minister Petříček again had to express himself, who told the nation that historians should evaluate this whole matter. The president of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, who let himself be heard that when Petříček was in Ukraine in February 2019, he did not mention the problem of the banderos enough and that he underestimated the whole phenomenon. And no one responded to the Minister's inaction except for us communists, not even Prime Minister Babiš. And yet Petříčkův's debauchery statement and de facto inaction could have damaged our relations with Israel even more, because every person who cares at least a little bit about history knows that skinning people alive, brutal rape or abdominal dismemberment of pregnant women, that is just a fraction of the entire list of cruelty committed by Ukrainian rebel soldiers under Stepan Bandera to innocent people without regard to age or sex. And the žid, along with the communists, were the primary target of the Banderian fighting attack. It is generally known that using the anti-Semitic rhetoric "Němec to Berlin, Polák to San and žid to the gallows," the share of Ukrainian nationalists in killing Žid was much higher than German atrocities. And today, at a time when these cutthroats stand in Ukraine as equal to war heroes fighting against Nazism and fascism, they are awarded honors and are granted the status of war veterans with many responsibilities, Foreign Minister Petříček simply told the nation that they should be dealt with by historians. That really didn't do us much good with our relations with Israel. But if I were to apologize to Minister Petříček in this sense, I would have to say that he is probably working for his little experience in politics, and in time he will certainly learn to respond adequately. It was the former Minister of Culture Herman, it was a different scythe. When he went as the first member of the Czech government in 2016 to the revanchist Sudeten German Landsmanshaft meeting, long-term striving for a transcription of the history of the developing and relativizing guilt not only of the Sudeten Němec, and where he had a motivational speech with a healther, he told the public that he was not a minister at this event but a mere citizen. Perhaps if the Foreign Minister Petříček had not acted in the media on the problem of the annexation of Palestinian territories with Jewish settlements on the right bank of Jordan as a minister, but had modified himself as a citizen, it would not have caused such a turbulent and negative response to some, especially right-wing Members and Members. Perhaps those who, when Minister Herman exhibitioned and shook himself at the Landsmanshaft convention - who, for your information, were founded by some former members of the SS or even the head of Konrad Henlein's office - and we, as communists, protested Daniel Herman's actions, just sat and kept quiet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u9	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. I have two priority applications in front of me, one is the Minister of Culture Luboš Zaorálek and then Mrs. Mrs. Červíčková as rapporteur, also with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u10	Yes, thank you. Good morning to you. I'll be brief, I'd just like to try to do something very simply about the position I signed up for in that letter. My colleague here is laughing at me, but it's gonna be really brief. So I would just like to repeat what I have said many times, that all the time I was a minister, so I actually kept repeating the position in the solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that only a two-state solution can be the solution. And I remind you that this is a position that Václav Havel has already held, and I could list here all the ministers and premieres that followed. This has always been the position of the Czech Republic. Even Václav Havel, when he visited there that day, visited Jasir Arafat, I remember, and then went to Israel. In fact, it was this balanced approach that was highlighted. Only this solution, which will think of both sides, has a chance to be viable. [[11.30 hours]] And that's actually a position I quite honestly identified with because I was interested in the problem, and I was actually wondering if there was any other way. I even participated in debates, even foreign ministers' debates in Brussels, and in fact, we have always agreed that all the other variants are ruined, that there is no alternative. Well, just because six million Palestinec live there somewhere between the Jordan Sea and the Mediterranean Sea - and what about them? Six million Palestinec surrounded by six million Žid, and they're in a vacuum. So the vacuum, of course, is getting worse with the anexi. So what's it gonna offer them? President Bibi Netanjahu recently said: He will not grant citizenship to Palestinec living in territories that he intends to annex. [[Prime Minister]] That's when I say they're in a vacuum, they'll actually be condemned to it. He just won't grant them citizenship. That's an authentic quote from Haaretz, I guess. Yes, so I'm not making that up. And one thinks - so where is what we've been saying all this time that there has to be a solution that takes into account both sides? It seems to me today that we are living in such a strange time when we can actually say anything, so relativize things that apply as certain principles. And when you repeat what you've always said, someone will tell you that you've committed a revolution. It seems to me that we are at a time when it's revolutionary to say what you've been saying for years, so it's suddenly said that it's something scandalous. But I'm just really -- and I don't want to talk about it long, I want to make it so much easier. I signed the letter because it repeated the position I had identified on the basis of my stay in the Palestinian territories of Israel many times, the talks I had, the debates I had, because I was genuinely interested in the problem in the long term. And I did not find another way, and I was convinced that the position of the European and the position taken by the Czech Republic was almost the only possible. And when I was dealing with why this debate is actually coming back here and where the arguments are that the žid actually have the opportunity to do something like this, I find the only argument behind it, which is actually still behind the articles that are made to be objective. The argument is, where were the Palestinec when David or Šalomoun walked on that area and the West Bank? That, in fact, that right is a historical right that relates to this history. That's what I hear so far. And I would like to say that the argument is actually very controversial. Because take who has the right in that case to Manhattan, who has the right to Kosovo and who has the right even to a Czech basin if we think that way. If you pass away those people who have lived there for centuries. It's not a world to live in. That's why I think what sounds like the argument that's coming out so far, and some say it out loud, it's this historic legendary right given by the Bible, so it doesn't actually stand up to those people who live there for centuries. And that's actually where it's always lived -- that's more ethnically colorful. So the idea that we can sort it out today just by saying that someone has a historical right to do it, and the others become second-class citizens, that's something you can't relate to. And that's where the European position is right. And the fact that the United States was involved and that Jared Kushner, the son-in-law of Trump, had made more or less this plan, with which Israel identifies, is not actually an argument for me. I am concerned about this debate, so if anyone is going to join this position, then I am simply saying no to it, for me the European position is of course infinitely closer and I do not feel any reason to leave it. In fact, all I'm saying is that I have no reason to leave that European position that doesn't agree with us accepting somewhere that people of the second category will live there, and we say, that's normal, and we have to get used to it. I see a huge risk in this, and that's why I signed it. Because I think it's an obligation to keep the line that we've been pushing for years, which I think was the only one that was right. And I think if it's not respected, if it's true that the others are going to condemn themselves to life in that vacuum, in that uncertainty, it's not going to lead to stability. That's all. And that's something I think you can afford to say, and you shouldn't be called into question because of that, that there's a threat or that he's telling the truth that shouldn't be told. On the contrary, I think that if you didn't have the chance to say that, then we're wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u11	I thank Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Before I give the floor to my colleague Červíčková as rapporteur, Mr Václav Klaus made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u12	Minister, I would have responded to you. Of course, that thing isn't black and white, that's for sure. The vast majority of foreign policy matters are not black and white, including those where some part of the House defends itself fanatically on one of those sides. But here we are talking about the fact that the position of the Czech Republic and the former Czechoslovakia since Jan Masaryk was quite unambiguously proizraelská. Thanks to this, our country has a little above-standard relations, thanks to our weapons, Israel has defended itself in the first war. Thanks to our country and Guatemala and other smaller states in the United Nations, Israel was created at all. And you are now coming up with the fact that we are changing this policy and signing up for a European policy that is often anti-Israeli - in France and other countries where it must already take into account the massive phalange of Muslims' own people. So that's what we're discussing here. There is no question of your erudition and knowledge. This thing is not black and white, but it is about the fact that you and a few of your friends decided to significantly change the traditionally pro-Israeli policy of the Czech Republic. That's what this discussion is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I still have priority rights here. Now, rapporteur Mrs Červíčková, then Minister Petříček and then Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. Now, the rapporteur. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be quite brief, ladies and gentlemen, because I am here as rapporteur for the foreign committee to which this item has been assigned for discussion. And I can only afford a small one here, I can almost say a warning, but also a request to all of us. At least we tried to stick to it at a meeting of the Foreign Committee, and I think it led to very effective negotiations. This point, which we have here at this moment to negotiate, is not a solution to the Middle East conflict, nor is it a solution to the problems and relations between Palestine and Israel. This point is to be addressed only in the opinion - and we have it in the title - of the House of Deputies on the article of three ministers in relation to Israel. So please, let me really say this request here, let's get back to the subject, let's really focus on this point so we can figure this out. And let me inform you of the course of negotiations on the Foreign Committee which took place on 11 June this year and was with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, even in the presence of the Minister himself. It is true that this article has produced a number of responses, but especially on our internal political Czech scene. This was no longer the case abroad, and I think I could quote here, for example, a quote from the Israeli ambassador here in the Czech Republic, which he said in the Lidové noviny - let me quote: "We have it closed. If there ever was a reservation, it was settled privately and not through the media." I would also like to mention here the negotiations that took place between our Minister of Foreign Affairs and his counterpart Mr Gabi Aškenazi. The Israeli Foreign Minister accepted an invitation to Prague, a joint meeting of our governments was discussed and both agreed to strengthen cooperation between the European Union and Israel. And that seems very important to me. I consider telephone conversation at the level of our prime ministers equally important. The Czech Prime Minister and Israeli Prime Minister also had a telephone conversation about relations that were not disturbed in any way. [[11.40 hours]] In the opinion of all members, the resolution of the Foreign Committee is very balanced, it respects the thesis of foreign policy of the Czech Republic. I will, of course, read it later in a detailed debate, but I would like to ask you to support it now, because I think it really is in the interest of all of us to resolve this point in a reasonable way. And I think we'll be able to do that. So thank you, and that's it for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u15	I thank the rapporteur for the speech, including a short report. And before I give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, I state an apology from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 10.45 to 12 o'clock, because of the doctor's visit Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes. Now, Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, will prepare Tomio Okamura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the consensual and substantive debate that we had with the members of the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies last week. I am pleased that we have again confirmed the fundamental consensus of our priorities with regard to Israel in the approved resolution, which the rapporteur will probably also represent. The Committee highlighted the importance of our strategic partnership with Israel, which is based on mutual respect, but also on common values and interests and whose aim is the security and prosperity of both our countries. He rejected, of course, the questioning of Israel's right to exist and defend itself and called on the government to hold an early meeting of the governments of both countries. Both the Prime Minister and I have already personally invited our Israeli counterparts to Prague and we believe that this meeting will take place as soon as possible. I would just like to mention very briefly that the members of the committee also agreed on the belief that the joint article, which we published together with my predecessors, did not interfere with relations between the Czech Republic and Israel. And I am also convinced that he has not deviated from the traditions of Czech politics in relation to the State of Israel, but also from the issue of the Middle East peace process. And if Mr Klaus here, but also Mr Kobza calls on us to explain what the position of the government is, what is the official foreign policy, not only with reference to the valid concept of foreign policy of the Czech Republic, but also with reference, I can state on this government's programming statement - and let me quote it. The government's programming statement says: We will also build on our traditional friendship and strategic partnership with Israel. However, we will continue to promote a peaceful solution to the Palestinian issue in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions and international law. If we oppose the risks of unilateral action, if we defend international law as a way to resolve disputes, we also defend Israel's security and prosperity, which are a fundamental and indisputable premission for us. This is our sustained support for Israel in the true sense of the word, and it is heard in negotiations between the two eyes, but also publicly. And in this regard, I think our commentary, which raised some questions, did not turn out to be anything from Czech foreign policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u17	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Tomio Okamura, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate on the attitude towards the Israeli Government should take into account two fundamental points. If a private person speaks to anybody's policy, it's their sacred right and their cause. If the foreign policy of the government is expressed by the Foreign Minister, it is always thought of as a government position. And it doesn't matter whether they say that opinion in a letter, in a plenary in the House, or in a restaurant. The fact that the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček publicly criticizes Israel's plan to launch a debate on the possible connection of Jewish settlements to Israel means that it seems to dislike our government as much as the Prime Minister and the President have distanced themselves from this shameful crap. The second thing is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and his colleagues from abroad from the sunny valley, i.e. the TOP 09 and the ČSSD, are calling for violations of international law by Israel. Unfortunately, they forget that his actions or plans lead only one reason: almost everyday rocket attacks from Gaza on Israel. This is a violation of international law and terrorism. However, ministers and exministras abroad for TOP 09 and ČSSD led by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-President of ČSSD Tomáš Petříček clearly do not regard this as a violation of the law. Israel and its citizens have the right to life and protection from Arab terrorism. The protection of their lives is over all preambles and legal texts. Even in our law, a similar principle applies that, in the name of protecting life, I can break the law with impunity. Defenders of Palestinian killers here want to address the problems between Israel and the Palestinians, while closing their eyes to the fact that last year, the Palestinian Authority rejected the invitation of Arab countries to a conference in Bahrain on a peace plan. From the perspective of the SPD movement, Israel is an important support point against Islamic radicalism in the Middle East. Only a blind man can wish Israel destabilized in the light of Islamic terrorism and migration waves. It would have inconspicuous consequences for the whole of Europe. It is therefore necessary to cooperate with Israel. And it is also a great example for our country. Israel is a country of the same size and population, approx. And even without NATO, he can resist multiple outnumbers and sieges by hostile Muslims. Let's take an example here for our defenses. The consistent enforcement of sovereignty without embezzlement and in friendly cooperation with all, i.e. with the US, Russia and the European Union. However hostile Brusel is to Israel. We'll talk about water in the House tomorrow. Israel can also be our role model and partner here, because it is one of the dryest countries and, at the same time, probably has the best and most efficient water management in the world, while I would like to remind myself of the basis of their water policy. The water belongs to everyone and must not belong to any foreign company. The nationalization of water in Israel was the basis of the fact that today citizens have not only enough water, but also the fact that they have it cheaper than Čech in the desert. That, ladies and gentlemen, is really worth thinking about. Why are the Čech worth up to twice as much water as the Izraelec, who have about two and a half times the current income? And the Izraelec' approach to the law is crucial. Perhaps we can hardly imagine black people or arab looting and destroying statues of Israel and Jewish history in Israel. Without a doubt, the police and the military would immediately pacify such a riffraff very hard. Israel is indeed a democratic country from which we can learn how to have a reliable partner in it in the fight against Islamic radicalism. Only a fool will dig into Israel in the current security situation without knowing the consequences. A shameful non-diplomatic letter is, according to our court, an immediate appeal by the Foreign Minister, who violated all the rules of diplomacy and apparently the official foreign doctrine of the Czech government, which we hope is conducted in the spirit of a good relationship with Israel, not in the spirit of collaboration with Palestinian terrorists. There are more problems at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the direction of Minister Tomáš Petříček from the ČSSD. The Supreme Audit Office found that the Czech Republic is active in almost 500 international organizations, and it goes from the state budget every year to 4.4 billion. Crowns, but no effect. We even pay membership contributions where we wanted to end our membership. This is an incredible waste of what the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček from the ČSSD is doing here. [[11.50 hours]] The report of the Supreme Audit Office states that the inspection has found the following facts. In 2018, our country collaborated with 477 organizations, which drained an incredible 4.4 billion from the state budget. Crowns. Only 233 organizations registered some benefit for our country, but 244 organizations did not. Shouldn't the incompetent Foreign Minister Petříček resign from the ČSSD? Yesterday it was late, especially in the current crisis, when citizens do not have money, they lose their jobs, and the government is trying to astronomically indebt the Czech Republic without making cuts to unnecessary spending. And the Minister doesn't say anything, he doesn't. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in charge of coordinating membership in such organizations. The individual ministries then deal with specific cooperation. The Supreme Audit Office has found that although new contracts or other financial commitments should be approved by the government, they should be familiar with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but this is not normally the case. Each resort should inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about establishing cooperation with international organisations. The new treaties are also to be approved by the government first. And now I quote the Supreme Audit Office: "Control has shown that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not need to know about this at all. In half of the 28 cases, the Ministry closed cooperation without the government and the Foreign Minister knowing about them." And the Ministry doesn't. Well, tell us how important our membership in institutions is for the Czech Republic, such as the Office for the Sea Bottom, the International Cold Office or the International Organisation of Francophony, which brings together countries that use French and many other organizations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs congratulated the latter last week on the 50th anniversary and stated that it would continue to cooperate with it. So cooperation, yes, but she brings together Francophone countries. Well, it's SAO data, it's the Supreme Audit Office's conclusions. If anybody else calls me on the microphone and wants to tell me what Okamura's saying here, then go somewhere else. The left hand here clearly doesn't know what the right hand is doing. He will pay for it, but the payer is a working citizen of the Czech Republic, from whom the system wants to scrape the skin off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u19	I thank Vice-President Okamur. Two factual remarks, respectively three, namely the first Minister of Foreign Affairs, then the Minister of Culture, then Ondřej Veselý and now also Ondřej Benešík. You have your word, Minister, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly in response to Mr. Vice-President. If anyone here is saying that we are questioning our partnership with Israel, let them look at the steps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken under my direction. And if the Israeli media also writes that we are Israel's unwavering ally, that I personally have repeatedly proved it through my steps, and I am proud of it, I proudly claim it, so here no one is questioning what we are doing in relation to Israel. Perhaps the Vice-President could see how many times we have condemned the attacks on the territory of the State of Israel by the radical Hamas movements and the like. So maybe I'd ask the Vice-President to verify the facts before he performs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Minister of Culture, with a point of fact. You have your word, Minister. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u22	I just wanted to respond to Mr Klaus' speech, because if I understood correctly, he feels that the letter is a change. I'd like to tell him that I've had the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Netanjahue more times, twice, three times, I've had longer talks with him, and it's actually always come up. I was talking more or less about the two-state solution, because that's actually the only option. Prime Minister Netanjah may have talked about problems and so on, but he never said that he was questioning this two-state solution and that he had another plan. And that's why I'm saying this isn't a change on our side. If the change is, it is now the plan of anex, which is the nail to the coffin of a two-state solution. So I insist that our position is consistent, and if it's changed somewhere, then not with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u23	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Veselý, Mr Ondřej Benešík, is now prepared, and a colleague Válková is still prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I will respond to Vice-President Okamura and, if necessary, to other speakers. I am sorry that we cannot answer the request or appeal of the rapporteur of the foreign committee, who has made it clear where we have been going and where we should be going with the debate. It is really about our relationship with Israel, not about Israeli-Palestinian relations as such. And as for our relationship with Israel and the article that we are debating here today, it must be said that the only people who see the problem in it are part of the Czech political scene. We've been communicating with the Israeli side, we've been tracking other media, we've been watching the media on the spot, that's in Israel and Palestine, and there's been no reaction anywhere in the sense that this article is some sort of protruding, that it's hurting someone, that the Israeli side sees the article as some sort of departure from our existing relationships, some turn of the helm or something like that. I'll use a little, say, more expressive expression. We were debating this on the committee, and basically the output was that the more poop stinks in the turd, the more poop stinks. And really, if we want to keep good relations with both the Israeli side and the Palestinian side, then the ideal model is that we don't unravel it, because nobody else here sees the problem in this article, not even the Israeli side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Ondřej Benešík's factual comment now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just very briefly. The problem was in the form. I think that between partners such as the Czech Republic and Israel, we should communicate a little differently, not through public articles in the media. Of course, we are discussing the content because, yes, there may be questionable points, apparently there are questionable points, but let's not talk about it through the media. If the Government of the Czech Republic has the format of a meeting with the Israeli Government, that is where it belongs. And then, if we don't agree, well, let's mediate it, but let's not go forward. So KDU-ČSL really had a big problem with this form and we still have a problem with this form. Foreign policy of the European Union. Yes, I am quite often in contact with experts on Israel, and one of them told me that there are two major differences with regard to the European Union and the United States. In the United States, there is either an administration that understands the Middle East issue and Israel, or there is an administration that doesn't understand. Because, of course, the administration is taking turns there. And the expert told me that there is one great certainty in the European Union, because there is always an administration that does not understand Israel and Middle East politics. But it begins with the choice of the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy at the European Council. Mrs. Mogherini, from my point of view, was a disaster, and Mr. Borrell certainly didn't impress me. But it's just another matter of our government, our Prime Minister, because he's the one who's making the decisions. So let us not complain about any European Union afterwards, because we have a certain word there. And let's figure it out. Let us not allow such nominations to fall and then have a negative impact on the Czech Republic and on our policy. As far as Frankofonia is concerned, I fully agree with Vice-President Okamura. But just for the record, to Frankofonia, this organization of French-speaking countries, his friend Miloš Zeman put us up to it. I don't know why either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now we will continue the debate with the speech of Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I would very much like to comment on the issue that we are discussing here, from a formal point of view. And I was a bit taken by the wind from the sails in a good way by the previous speaker, Mr. Benešík, because he pointed out one thing that didn't sound very good here. We can discuss the content, surely there is a difference of opinion on it. I will also read to you my comments, which I sent to the Vice-President to quote precisely, the Czech Society of Friends of Israel as a member of the intermarital group of friends of Israel as a response on 26 May this year and from which it may be clear what caused this article from the point of view of formal perception, why we are discussing it in the House. Each of us can express the content of this article and think of it differently, virtually. he can think, and the convention can draw different from him. But what I think should be said very clearly here is that the basic formal rules for foreign policy have been violated here, which should be clear and should be declared especially by the government. And I, in fact, as a Member and as a Human Rights Commissioner of the Government, did not understand the procedure when an article suddenly appeared in the media, which led me personally to formulate a letter that I will now read to you on 26 May 2020. He's short. "Dear Vice-President," I write to Vice-President Sedláček, "the joint article of Ministers Petříček, Zaorálek and former Minister Schwarzenberg is for me, not only as a Member, but especially as an agent of the Government for human rights, incomprehensible and inconsistent for our foreign policy, and therefore also a dangerous speech. Not only is it difficult to understand its motivation, but it certainly damaged the Czech Republic in my opinion, because it sounds clearly hostile to Israel." I meant the foreign clear line, or virtually. a clear line of our foreign policy. "I have long seen the efforts of various actors in any way to damage our relations with Israel, and the above article fits well in this strategy. That is why I consider it necessary to make myself clear and express my disagreement. With a friendly greeting to Helena Válková." And I read it this way on the microphone because, of course, when I read the other reactions that were heard, and there were few, very negative and immediately the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, and others, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and then I studied the statements and explanations of the authors of this article, which partially mitigated my doubts that the attempt was to damage or disrupt our foreign policy, so I realized one thing - that there was a breach of the formal procedure and that perhaps the authors did not think it as badly as the contribution came out. But I was waiting here in the House for at least one of them to step out and say to the microphone: we regret that we broke the procedural rules common in foreign policy, that we skipped government and prime minister, that we may have expressed in good faith some original contribution to foreign policy applied to Israel as a response to his step of attitude, but we did it prematurely, we did it without consultation and could have provoked it in those who are not so well oriented, for example in the Member Helena Válková, doubts about what is actually being followed by this article. And for me, I would very much like the authors of this post here on the microphone to explain why they acted so quickly and if they really don't think that this was the least confusing of the readers who then responded. And such an explanation of the type that only part of the political Czech scene responds to it and that otherwise it went completely unnoticed and that nothing ever happened - if only that were the case. I would very much like that. And I am also glad for their comments, which were made here, especially from the mouth of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who does not respond as his colleague, the Minister of Culture, or that the article did not actually follow, as I have just heard it here, although he did not say directly, any change in foreign policy and that it was actually such a continuous speech. Then the speech did not go well in this regard because it caused just such massive or such intense reactions as on my part. Because I really, when I read it, I was wondering - what does that mean? Something's changing here. I have to ask someone. I am so glad that now the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has set it right, I hope, with its resolution, and I have already been informed in advance, we will certainly discuss this resolution here. So this mistake may have been corrected in the sense that it was made clear that our foreign policy towards Israel was not changing and that it was an expression that was made by the bona fide. However, in formal terms, it did not say that normal, standard rules were violated, which, in particular, are to be followed and must be followed in diplomacy. And I would love to hear or hear an explanation as to why this was not the case and why it was exceptionally correct in this case. I'm happy to learn. And while I have the floor, allow me one more reservation on Mr Valent and his speech, through you, Mr President. Because there was something here in his speech that was already on the verge of insulting former Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. And I'm asking because there were words like attending a revansist meeting or a revansist political party meeting. And I do not think that this is entirely appropriate, especially since some of you may, just as I know that Mr Daniel Herman will take one of the highest honours of the Federal Republic of Germany at the German embassy on 7 September for merit for good relations between the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany. So then when I hear something like this -- he's not here and he can't express himself -- so I say no, that's not it. And I take that as an insult to him in his absence, which I consider particularly unacceptable even in terms of a certain ethics of us Members who should set an example. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u29	Thank you. The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will speak with a factual remark, after which Minister Petříček will give priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u30	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am satisfied with the fact that some things have been said by the previous speakers, particularly by Mrs Válková, in relation to the procedure. I, as far as the content of the letter is concerned, must say that I have expressed myself positively, given that it is actually following some balanced political relationship with both the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority, which the Czech Republic holds. The form really wasn't good. I certainly am not one of the fanclubists of both my colleagues Schwarzenberg and my colleague Petříček, but on the other hand I must say that diplomacy requires not only words but also form to be weighed. [[Smiling, to say the least.]] And so it was catastrophic. I don't think that's what you do. And now we can say whether the foreign committee has succeeded or failed to correct those things. That's what always happens. Something's easy to break down, something's hard to build. That's just the way it goes. And in this respect, I have to say, I'm sorry that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't have that form of conduct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u31	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Petříček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad Vice-President Filip joined, because I can also answer him. I would like to assure both Members that, in terms of form, of course, we have also acted diplomatically, we have conducted ongoing diplomatic consultations with Israel on the subject, and that this comment, which appeared in the public space, is merely a follow-up to issues that we have repeatedly opened with Israel at different levels. And in this we are clearly read to the Israeli side. [[12.10 hours]] The fact that issues that move foreign policy are also commented on in public space is quite common, and it is happening quite normally and we do not always agree that the personal opinions of some representatives are also manifest. Perhaps in reply once again, I will stress to Mrs Válková: In this comment there is nothing more to be said than what is written in the Government's programming statement. The government's programming statement is something that coalition partners agreed to promote, including the issue of the Middle East peace process. And I repeat that we have confirmed our strategic partnership with Israel in the Government's programming declaration, our interest in developing relations with Israel, but also to promote a peaceful solution to the Palestinian issue in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions and international law. And that was de facto only repeated in the commentary, so in this I do not see in any process that we would turn out from the traditions of Czech foreign policy, from the position of the government of the Czech Republic, because it is included both in the concept of foreign policy of the Czech Republic and in the programming declaration of the government. And, of course, I can accept that the timing issue could have been better chosen, but we have repeatedly dealt with the Israeli side through diplomatic channels. It is a topic that is repeatedly addressed in both the European Union and the United Nations, and there are a number of conclusions that we need to comment on from these negotiations, which was de facto the motivation to write this comment, which contains only a few considerations about what might happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jiří Valenta will respond with a real remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have a brief reaction here to Professor Válková's colleague. I would remind her that the Sudeten German Council approved on 15 January 1961 and accepted on 7 May twenty points, which are in principle still in force today. [[Nesroz.]] Among other things, they require the re-inhabitation of the Sudeten Němec in the original territories where they lived until 1945. In addition, the right to national self-determination, based on the principle of collective ethnicity and not civil identity, is promoted, and is above such collective determination over individual destination. This means the right of the Sudeten Němec to re-inhabit certain territories in the Czech Republic, in the extreme interpretation that their populated territories could subsequently be separated from the Czech State. These points correspond to some extent with the Karlovy Vary programme, which was announced by the pre-war Sudeton German party supported by Adolf Hitler. Witikobund, part of the Landsmanshaft, is a predominantly nationalist organization founded by former Nazis and German nationalists. The 20-point programme does not respect the results achieved in the mutual Czech-German dialogue and runs counter to the policy of European integration as well as the European concept of a modern multicultural society. Mrs Válková, through Mr President, do you not yet see the revanchism in this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u35	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Zaorálek will speak, then with a factual remark from Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u36	It's just that I feel like such a specially hardened sinner here. I just want to explain. It's actually kind of a personal conviction. I'm convinced that even in everyday life, if you have someone you think you're your friend, then if you think he's doing a shoe, he's going to do something he shouldn't do, then it's actually good to tell him. And I even think that if you don't do it, that friendship kind of goes wrong anyway, because it doesn't really work for why friendship is supposed to work. And that's why I think finding the way I'm communicating when something's wrong with me is part of the relationship. I think I've been doing this all along, and I dare say I've had a really friendly relationship with my partners in Israel. And that's despite knowing that we don't quite identify ourselves in what's going on and what they're doing. [[in this]] And that I had politicians there that were closer to me, like Cipi Livni and the like, that I felt like they were doing politics more to my liking. But that wasn't my part. But when I was talking to them about it, I was honest and I felt that it was even worth it and that it was building the relationship. So believe me, my stubbornness is not given by the fact that I really want to change here what is a fairly long tradition of relations between the Czech Republic and Israel, but that is my belief in how friends should be spoken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u37	Thank you. Mrs Válková, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u38	Thank you. I wanted to thank Mr. Foreign Minister Petříček for using the word premature, that maybe it was, and explaining or eliminating one of my doubts that the Minister may not be able to explain some of his mike crossings, and I think that this kind of form was. And as for the revanshism that Mr Valenta mentioned by you, Mr President, that is precisely why I have spoken up and stood up for the absent Mr Daniel Herman, because he is linked to the revansist and what has been read here, it is something so incredibly simplified, inaccurate, distorted and false. I don't mean to say lying, but that would probably be the most prestigious expression. He really never, as I had the opportunity to get to know him in his intensive work on building good Czech-German relations, was on the side of those you were talking about and who wanted those unacceptable demands - perhaps some of them today, I don't know, I don't even know, I don't read their documents, so I really don't know - and it was the unacceptable shortcut that you named his name in this context that seemed sufficient proof to me why I got off, as I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u39	Thank you. Information about apologies. Mrs Helena Langšádlová from 14.30 to 19am apologizes for family reasons, Minister Adam Vojtěch apologizes for the afternoon meeting due to urgent work issues and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová apologises from 14.30 to 23.00 for family reasons. Mr Jan Lipavský will now appear in the debate, Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u40	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will only allow you to briefly introduce our position on this case. We have long held a two-state solution. What comes from the agreement in Oslo in 1993, i.e. that two states, Israel and Palestine are to be created. And, more or less, this attitude forms our view of the peace plan presented by Donald Trump or the current US administration, and therefore our position on the text published by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and his two former colleagues is more or less derived from that. We do not think that the content of this article would go against Czech foreign policy, because if you look at all the conceptual materials, if you look at the conclusions of the negotiations of the highest constitutional actors, this is all in line with the fact that it is to be grown up - there is no way to say - a two-state solution. As to the criticism, whether it is appropriate to write or not to write an article in the paper, I believe the Minister has the right, and it is expected to write an article in the paper. Of course, I perceive that part of the political scene was against the will, and of course I perceive that it was against the will of the current government in Israel, which is pushing the plan for the anex. They are well aware that the US President may not be re-elected, and probably with a new democratic administration, any chance of such a solution falls because it simply does not get there. So maybe that would be my little information about Mrs Válková through the President, when she asked why they were pushing it so hard, why right now. The pressure is actually given to the geopolitical situation. [[12.20 hours]] Otherwise, it says why not write an article, why not write an article. So public diplomacy is part of the diplomatic work, it's one of the possibilities of the repertoire. Mrs Červíčková will read the resolution of the Foreign Committee. We will support it with the exception of a single point that just refers to the peace plan of the US administration, Donald Trump, as it identifies it as promising with the potential to give the Middle East peace process a new dynamic. I realize that it gives the dynamics to the process, but we don't think it's hopeful. So much for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u41	Thank you and with a factual remark, Mr Marek will speak Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to follow, not the speech of my colleague Lipavský, but the repeated half-truths and black and white interpretations that have been made here by Mr Valenta, and not only by Mrs Válková. Because what was said here is really a lie. Witikobund is not a member of the Sudeten German compatriotic association. And if you look at the last few years, the Sudeten German compatriotic association has repeatedly distanced itself from this organization and forbids this organization to participate in any of the events of this association in any way. Definitely the Sudeton German compatriotic association is focused on the future and it is outrageous here in any way to misinterpret not only history but also the current state of affairs and defamation of fellow Daniel Herman here. I'd really like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u43	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda in the debate, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u44	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, a few comments on what has been said, although I have applied before a very good time and all the preferential rights and factual remarks are often ahead of me and I am trying not to abuse them. The first is when he was driving here - I know that the communists have before the convention - but when Vice-President Filip was driving, he let Mr. Valenta talk about bander, landsmanshaft, which, in my opinion, does not belong at all to this point, because we are really talking about a letter of ministers, not about foreign policy, a letter of ministers on a possible annexation of territories in the Middle East. After what Vice-President Filip showed us here the week before last, taking the word of a pirate colleague who wanted to talk about Smartwings, or what it is called, whether he should or should not enter, and it was part of the point, I would just beg him - he is not here at the moment and directs someone else - to be equally fair to his party colleagues, and when someone is knitting landsmanshafft and bannerovka into the state of Israel, so that he leaves him to the proper limits. Well, that's a procedural remark. Second comment on the honourable Member, respectively. Minister Zaorálek. I would like to say, in the words of the French classic, I think he missed his opportunity to remain silent, not by letter, but by his performance today. If Minister Zaorálek here did not have the need to do a bit of exhibition and say that he understood everything, we could have been finished with the item long ago with a rather calm resolution of the foreign committee, which realized exactly that unfortunately it went in some direction, which seemed particularly to the Czech Republic, but also to Israel inappropriate and unhappy. But Minister Zaorálek, as is his favorite custom, has provoked an endless debate here. The third point concerns Minister Zaorálek again and concerns his now here statement that if my friend is making a shoe, it is good to tell him. No doubt about it, we'd all sign it. The only doubt on our part is, if my boyfriend's making a shoe, it's good to put it in the paper. Instead of going to him and saying, "Dear friend, I think you're making a shoe," I'm going to write an article in the paper - "I think my dear friend is making a shoe." I really don't feel that way, and in this regard, I consider the letter to be slightly unhappy. Another thesis that I think should be heard, and it's in a series of performances. There is still talk of a peaceful solution to the Middle East issue, two-state solutions and other things. None of us has ever said for a second that there is a Middle Eastern question for a war solution, that there is no agreement or anything like that. But I think you have listened carefully to the plaintiff, who has tried very carefully and thoroughly to sum up the history since at least the beginning of the 20th century and to calculate how those parties of the conflict behave there, who have the permanent will to try - the territory for peace, we have known this thesis for many years - to try to agree with their neighbours to enjoy peace and to treat each other with respect in some form, and who is constantly stirring up the conflicts again and again. The Oslo agreements were quoted here. So, have we forgotten what the Oslo deal fell on? No doubt it was not the Israeli party's fault. Just Israel is our friend, it's the only Middle East democracy. It is against the countries that had the last elections - some at all, some of the countries that had the last elections fourteen, eighteen years ago, the Middle East satraps rule there, or what they call it, and they feel that their only life's mission is to feed the conflict. I think it's very unfortunate. I find it very unfortunate that we are trying to adapt to the European Union. And again, from the words of Minister Zaorálek, it has been heard several times, and it has not been part of the letter, but I think he has, unfortunately, provoked what is happening here - as we must with Europe, and Europe has plans... I have never heard of any European Union plan. I've never heard a plan other than a general speech, I haven't heard any thesis that would have shifted somewhere in the Middle East, except that they'll still be patronizing the State of Israel for that or that or something like that. This is, of course, related, as has been said here, to the minorities that are now living in some Western states. It has to do with a certain degree of latent anti-Semitism, which is evidently present at least in places. We've seen it now at demonstrations where demonstrations against racism and murder, killing - I don't want to judge a black man from here in the United States - suddenly they turn into anti-Jewish attacks. I consider it absolutely incredible and unbelievable, but unfortunately, part of those radical protestors is being loaded like this. And in this situation, I think that we really should stand by the State of Israel, we have to say yes clearly, maybe some steps are premature, are to be done elsewhere, otherwise, but at the same time be aware that whoever is not ready to sit at the negotiating table and who is not willing to negotiate and who only wants the endless conflict, which means that billions of euros from the European Union are being poured into a completely dysfunctional state body, which is fed only by the money of the European Union, so unfortunately is the other side. And that we may have some reservations about the American President's peace plan, virtually. Mr. Kushner, but at least the plan says something. At alespoň he says let's move on. And even that statement by the highest constitutional officials, referred to by the Foreign Committee resolution, says: there is a way to move the Middle East conflict forward peacefully. There'd just have to be some other side that's willing to sit at that table that's willing to freeze the conflict in some way. If we keep pretending that all the solutions lie only in the fact that we will endlessly feed the Palestinian authorities with European money so that they can continue to exert pressure on the State of Israel, I think we are making a big mistake and we are not to adapt to the European Union in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u45	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Valenta will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u46	Thank you. I promise I'll be performing for the last time. Towards your colleague Benda through you. Dear colleague, there are words in the Member's speech such as analogy or comparison. If I can't even use this here in your opinion, then I would consider it a flagrant violation of my Member's constitutional right here in some way to respond to the things I would like to respond to. You see, my colleague, there is still a context in the spoken text, apart from the purposefully torn text, part of the text you used. And you seem to have missed the context. That's why I would recommend that you look at the log, and when you read it in detail, the log, you'll see that I didn't deviate from the subject by an inch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u47	Thank you. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will speak in the debate, at this time as the last registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I think it is necessary to say that Israel is a country that is constantly in war conflict, and from this point of view the context must also be perceived. And then I would also like to retreat - thank you, my colleague Válková and colleagues Výborný for defending Daniel Herman. What was said here from the mouth of my colleague Valenta is a goddamn lie. I was on Sudeten German Day too, and I can guarantee you Witikobund has no access. The Sudeten German compatriotic association is not a part of it, and even Witikobund is not part of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, that's a lie. Please study it. You're confusing advice here, you're confusing the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft - they're not the same entities. You're in a total mess. On the contrary, the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft - as you like to say, so as to highlight the German word, although of course we have the Czech name Sudeten German Regional Association - has no more radicals in its ranks, let alone revanšists, let alone Nazis or fascists, or as you call them. In principle, these people have long since been expelled from the Sudeten German compatriotic association and have no place there. Witikobund is not invited to Sudeten German Day because they fundamentally differ in their positions both in the past and in the future. The Sudeten Němec have several organizations. They are, for example, Sudeten German Catholics, Sudeten German Protestants, Sudeten German Social Democrats. On the day of Daniel Herman and I and many other politicians from other parties, there are invited Social Democrats, Christian Democrats, zelený or žid. Last year, if I'm not mistaken, she got the Karel the veliký Mrs. Charlotte Knoblochová award. This lady is the representative of the Bavarian Žid. There are many Žid at these meetings. And if you think that in the Revans or Nazis, žid who suffered, as well as Social Democrats, Christian Democrats, Communists, were murdered and systematically destroyed by a Nazi monstrous ideology that they would go there, it would need a wet rag on their head. It is also necessary to realize that Daniel Herman is from a family that has been hit hard by the Nazi regime and has victims in its ranks because of his origin and the hatred of the Nazis. So if you're talking nonsense, study it. The Sudeten German compatriotic association has no Witikobund in its ranks. He's not part of it. And stop lying in here! He likes to use it as well as Vice-President of the House, Mr. Okamura. It's total nonsense, and it's a dirty lie. Similarly, there has been a development over the 70 years within the Sudeten Němec and their relationship with Czechoslovakia or the Czech Republic. We went on this day precisely to support the current leadership of the Sudeten German compatriotic association, which also surrendered in its statutes, and because of this, the court also gave up any property claim, i.e. what you call revanšism. Likewise, do you think that he would come to this day and sit next to me by the Federal Interior Minister? Are you saying that the Federal Interior Minister is going to events organized by the Nazis or the Revans who are fighting the interests of territorial integrity and the results of World War II? Next to me was Mrs Knoblochová and Horst Seehofer, the Federal Interior Minister, the former Prime Minister of Bavaria, was sitting next to me. You talk about things you don't understand at all, you confuse the public and you lie! And I'm very sorry, because we have to talk about these things, of course. So is the debate on Benešův's decrees. The only party in Germany that is relevant and that requires the complete abolition of Benešův' decrees is the AFD, with which Mr Okamura and Mr Klaus's Tricolor brother SPD are fraternizing. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Only the AFD pushes both the Bavarian and the Federal Government to abolish these Benešův Decrees. Let's call it what it is. I'm very sorry that you're using this hateful rhetoric that is - and at least that's how I feel - clearly anti-German. And your statement about what the Sudeten German Regional Association is - and you are confusing advice there and others, there are more institutions - so of course it can, and I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will confirm this to me, can significantly damage the Czech-German relations, the Czech-Bavorian relations. Bavaria as a key economic partner of the Czech Republic. We're still in the same mode. You're talking nonsense! If it is not yet clear, the compatriotic association has expressed a clear regret about what happened in history and wants to look further. You're always coming back, and you're not ashamed of it yet! And now I don't know if you don't know, if you don't know, what's going on with Witikobund, or if you're saying it on purpose, you're lying because you know. And I don't know what's worse, actually. Ignorance or lie. But it's both sad, whatever it is. So don't say things like that. On the contrary, people who go to Pentecost on the day of the Sudeten Němec have nothing to do with the Nazis, they are not Nazis, they are not neo-Nazis and they want to cooperate with the Czech Republic and its inhabitants. It is precisely because even though the association has many decades and there has been a significant shift - and I repeat, they have renounced claims, alleged, alleged, or if you want legitimate or illegitimate - that is why we have come to support them because they have pushed out the radicals who have been in different organizations. And you can dirty Daniel Herman. But the truth is elsewhere. And I warn you that some of the statements that fall here and are false seriously harm the interests of the Czech Republic. Please don't lie. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u49	Thank you. President Radim Fiala with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna respond to my previous speaker because he's been talking about the SPD and Tomio Okamur a few times. You have said several times that we are lying, through the President, Mr Bělobrádek. So if we're lying, I'll read you the part that was published by the Ministry of the Interior: The Witikobund organization is clearly linked to the Sudeten Landsmanshaft. I quote from the report by the Czech Ministry of Interior: Attention is also earned by the organization of the Sudeton German Nazis Witikobund, which spreads anti-Czech views in the Landsmanshaft environment. The organization's program is to atone for alleged war crimes committed by allies on the German nation and to further eliminate lies about German crimes, including the so-called Holocaust culture as an expression of non-German thought. - So we didn't make it up. So tell me the Home Office is lying. Don't turn to us. That's not true. As far as AFD is concerned, yes, the SPD is in a faction in the European Parliament with the AFD. Before we entered that faction, we sat with the President of the AFD and signed a mutual declaration that neither the SPD nor the AFD would go back into the past and we would only solve problems in the European Parliament, and at all between our parties, which concern the future. So nothing like that is possible. And we specifically asked them about the issue of Czech property. And we told them that if it was true, we couldn't enter any factions with them and never enter. They told us that it wasn't true, that it was shouted out once by a local politician, that German television and, of course, all the mainstream political parties had caught on to it, and that there was no problem with them signing it with us. So the lie is somewhere else entirely, Mr Bělobrádek, through the President. So please study it before you start talking about something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u51	Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u52	Thank you for the floor. Yes, you are lying because it was said here - and I didn't say I was pointing everything at you, I was talking about a colleague of Valent. You say human connection. Listen, personnel link. [[Radim Fiala from his post: Ministry of Interior.]] Well, you quoted it. Human connection. And I said - don't yell at me, we're not on the market - as far as the human resources link is concerned, it's something other than part of it, and I said here, so listen to me, Witikobund is not part of the Sudeton German compatriotic association. Personal connection, it is about as if you said that the representative of the sports club is also engaged politically, so Sparta Praha is associated with the Czech Socialist Party. But that's different. I was just saying that Witikobund-- yes, they're radicals, and they're not allowed on that day. Witikobund is not invited. The AFD is not invited because it systematically criticizes the Bavarian government for not wanting to abolish Benešův's decrees that they are trying little. So I wasn't lying. I merely said, and I insist that Witikobund is not part of the Sudeten German compatriotic association. And the human resources link - so explain to me what they mean, and if the Home Office is writing something like that, it's possible that one of the members is there, but they're marginal and Witikobund as such, as a truly revansist group, they're not allowed there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u53	The following are two factual points. First of all, Mr Benda, then Mr Foldyna and Mrs Červíčková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u54	Pavel Vice-Bělobrádek, ladies and gentlemen, please leave the Sudeten German association Witikobund and all others to this point. We're talking about the State of Israel, we're talking about our relationship with him. It seems to me as unhappy as possible that Mr Valenta was involved. I also criticized it in my performance that it was allowed at all. If we can and will allow our honor, it doesn't want to be anymore, because I don't think it really belongs here. It doesn't belong desperately. If we burden the debate on the State of Israel with this, it feels so bad to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u55	Thank you. Mr. Foldyna. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u56	Thank you for your word. I basically wanted to say the same thing as my colleague Benda. Gentlemen and ladies, let's talk about the future, about what awaits us. We can't solve any past, we can't change anything. The decrees are part of the past and part of our history, but what awaits us is a really great battle to maintain a whole range of things that are reflected in what we are talking about, and these are relations with Israel. That's what we're interested in. That's what our public cares about. I think the whole debate is quite complex, too, that if the diplomatic corps of different countries are watching this, we've made a lot of mistakes here. We fucked a lot of things we didn't have to fuck. Let us conclude this discussion with some kind of substantive resolution concerning these relations, and let us not open other and new topics here. We're just hurting ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u57	Thank you. Mrs Červíčková, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u58	Thank you. I just wanted to follow up on getting back to the subject, the point that we're supposed to pre-negotiate. So I'm just repeating the appeal - let's go back, let's read the resolution and let's vote on what resolution this House will adopt. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u59	Thank you. I don't have another application for a general debate. Anyone else reporting? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. There is no interest in the final words after the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate. No one is enrolled in a detailed debate. The rapporteur, Mrs Červíčková, is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u60	Thank you again for the floor. Very briefly, I would like to present here the motion for a resolution adopted by the Foreign Committee. The resolution has several points. I will read it first, if there are no objections, in whole, but, of course, if there is a request for a vote after the per-partes points, which I have noted is likely to be desirable for the Pirate Club, we will comply with this request. Thank you. Resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 45th meeting of 11 June on the joint statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček and his two predecessors concerning Israel: After the opening speech of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Petříček, the report by Mrs Červíčková and the debate by the Foreign Committee I. expresses its support for the strategic partnership between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel, based on mutual respect, common values and interests, the aim of which is the security and prosperity of both countries; II. Recalls the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 748, paragraph 2, of 19 October 2019, in which the Chamber of Deputies rejects any questioning of the right of the State of Israel to exist and defend itself; III. Calls on the Government to act on the early conduct of joint negotiations with the new Government of the State of Israel; IV. Refers to the current concept of Czech foreign policy from 2015 and recalls that the Czech Republic will continue to support the objectives of the Middle East peace process; V. referring to the conclusions of the negotiations of the highest constitutional actors of 11 March 2020, expresses the hope that the peace initiative of the United States of America Peace to Prosperity is a concrete proposal that has the potential to give the Middle East peace process a new dynamic that will restore direct action by both sides; VI. believes that the publication of the joint declaration in question has not affected relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel; VII. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Monika Červíčková, to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the outcome of the foreign committee's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u61	Thank you. We're still in a detailed debate. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Yes, Mr Lipavský reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u62	Thank you for the floor. If the rapporteur accepted my proposal to change the procedure, we would only vote separately on point 5 and the rest we can vote as a whole to save ourselves the vote on every item, because we do not see that there are contradictions with the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u63	Thank you. Mr Benda in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u64	If there is a consensus on this proposal, I would just like to point out that only points 1 to 4 and 6 are voted on. Point 7 - Instructs the rapporteur - the House will no longer vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u65	Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am done with the debate. There's no interest in final words. We'll proceed with the procedure. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. After all, I will ask the rapporteur to go to the speaker's desk and conduct us with a vote. The proposal was made for us to vote with one vote on points 1 to 4 and 6 and for point 5 to vote on another vote on a separate basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u66	Exactly, this proposal has been made, so if it is not a problem, we would vote in this way, and if there is no requirement for me to re-read the individual points, then I would also recommend that we vote in paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 at the same time, and then I would also need to read the separate point, which is voted separately, that is the point 5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-005-382.u67	I'm going to vote for the procedure, even though it's not strictly necessary. We've heard the suggestion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 232 registered 139 Members, for 138, against 1. We've approved the procedure. This means that we will now vote together on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 6. Does anyone wish to be read again? He doesn't. We can vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 233 registered 143 Members, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote separately on paragraph 5. Does anyone wish to be read? No, we can vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 234, 143 Members registered, for 119, against 11. This proposal has also been adopted. This has dealt with all the proposals, and I thank both the rapporteur and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. We will now proceed to paragraph 273. It's about
