ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 49th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record your participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 49th meeting on 14 May of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate a Member of Jana Krutáková and a Member of Jaroslav Dvořák. Does anyone else have a proposal regarding the persons of the verifiers of the meeting? I don't see anyone reporting with another proposal. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the proposed verifier. Who's against it? This is vote number one, registered 111, for 108, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members Jana Krutáková and Jaroslav Dvořák as verifiers of the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I say that by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Ondřej Benešík by 15.00 hours for work reasons, Jana Levová - working reasons, Petr Pávek - health reasons. Members of the government apologize: Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. And today it is May 26th and our dear colleague Miloslava Vostrá celebrates her birthday. So, madam, if you can hear me, happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] With the replacement card number 18, Mr Bartoš votes. Madam Members, on Tuesday, 19 May, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, I declared a legislative emergency for the period from 26 May to 30 June 2020. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a government bill on compensation for persons providing paid health services, printing 868, government bill amending certain tax laws, printing 874, government bill on waiver of social security premiums and contribution to state employment policy, printing 875. By decision number 57 and 58, I decided to discuss these government proposals in a short hearing and ordered the press of 868 to the Health Committee, the press of 874 to the Budget Committee, the press of 875 to the Social Policy Committee. I have determined them for discussion and set them an unbreakable deadline for the submission of a resolution by 26 May 2020 by 1 p.m. in the press 868 and by 29 May at 9.00 in the prints 874 and 875. Dear colleagues, in this context, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this issue. I'm gonna ask you all to calm down in the hall. The meeting has already begun. I ask who is interested in speaking in the debate on whether or not there is a state of legislative emergency. If I see no one, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 159, for 133, versus 10. This proposal has been adopted, the proposal has been approved. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 49th meeting, as shown on the invitation. First, let me introduce you to the proposal of the Gremium. Firstly, the Grémium proposes to eliminate paragraphs 40 and 293 of the proposal for a programme, the House's press 374, second and third readings. Second, move points 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 28, 29 30 and 31, House prints 531, 552, 644, 660, 535, 676, 677, 678 and 679, to the end of the block of the laws of second reading. Points 347 and 348, House prints 778 and 781, shift to the end of the block report, proposals and more. Point 43, House Press 633 at the end of the block of laws in the first reading. Thirdly, the Grémium proposes to include new points in the draft programme: House prints 868, 874, and 875, which are laws in the short-term negotiations; the proposal to elect a member of the SAO to vote points; further proposals by the Chamber of Deputies for granting or granting state honours, House document 5299, to block the report, proposals and more. Fourthly, the Grémium proposes the following procedure: today, on Tuesday, 26 May, discuss the points in order: the laws returned by the Senate, the House prints 849/2, 850/2 and 550/8; further, paragraph 74, House press 866, first reading; and a new point by the House press 868 in the shortened negotiations. On Wednesday, May 27, the Grémium proposes to include point 375 at 14:30, the Czech Police's request in connection with the prosecution of Ms Karla Maříková, and paragraph 69, House press 841, first reading. On Friday, then, the Grémium proposes to firmly include paragraph 256, House press 689, third reading, and new points, House prints 875 and 874 in a short hearing. Finally, I have an organizational announcement for you. On Wednesday, 27 May, the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be adjourned until Thursday, 28 May, until 14.30 pm, because at 9.00 pm, the 50th meeting will be opened, an extraordinary meeting convened at the request of the Group of Members. That's all on my side. Now let me ask you, honourable Members, who are you interested in speaking. With the replacement card number 22, Mr Filip votes. With priority rights, the President of Rakušan is first registered in writing. Then I saw President Jurečka as the second. Mr. Veselý reporting from his post. [[Call off the microphone.]] aha, so with priority rights after President Jureček. Well, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm coming up with two points that I'm going to be asking you to do for today's meeting. The first point I would like to put first on today's agenda and its title would be the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the merits of the Czechoslovak legionnaires. The second point concerns the proposal for the establishment of a temporary commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the supervision of the use of data by mobile payment card operators and other sensitive data in connection with the introduction of the so-called Smart quarantine. Let me first justify point 1. To me, it is a bit trivial that I have to come to the Chamber of Deputies in 2020 with a proposal for a point where Members, if the item is to be included, should express by their vote that Czechoslovak legionaries are among the heroes who have contributed to the existence of an independent, free, democratic Czechoslovakia. It really wouldn't have occurred to me as an old history teacher that I would have been forced to do something like this, but it did. Please allow me to quote the words of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament for the Russian military website. To begin with, I would like to point out that Vice-President of the House was designated not only as Chairman of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia in this article, but was marked by his official constitutional function, which he holds in the Czech Republic and which is one of the highest. "The members of the KSČM and other citizens of the Czech Republic are positively aware that the Russian government is not interested in forcing local authorities to build monuments to Czech legionnaires who have not freed anyone in Russia and have done nothing for the greatest socialist revolution of the last century in Russia in 1917," said Vojtěch Filip, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the Russian medium. In his interview, the Vice-President also called some Czech politicians fascinating, criticizing the removal of the statue by Marshal Koněv, whom the freely elected City Hall of Prague 6 decided, by vote 33:1. This is simply normal in the Czech Republic, that we also have an autonomous level and that our self-government is simply not subject to a central dictatorship, as is the custom in the Russian Federation. I can have a really different view of history with comrade Filip, and that is completely legitimate, and that we have a different view of history is quite obvious. I certainly respect the right to my own opinion, and I will always defend it, even if I do not agree with it. What I cannot agree with, however, is that one of the highest constitutional actors in the Czech Republic should express itself as a function against the fundamental direction of Czech foreign policy. The Vice-President did not call his views private. He spoke as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and I just want to hear today that this is not the opinion of 200 Members of this Chamber of Deputies, and that is why I am asking you to include this item, and we can, by simple vote, even after the points of the resolution in question, show what the real and official opinion of the Chamber of Deputies is on this matter. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The Vice-President tickled under the chin of a Russian bear, but certainly did not contribute to Czech interests within the Russian Federation. With their servile statements, which, by the way, included -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u3	I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, Mr. Ambassador, you have a voice, but I still think the level of noise in the room is disproportionate. I'm asking you all to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u4	Among other things, he urged the Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček, through the Russian media, to be removed from his post. This is completely unacceptable to me, because not Vojtěch Filip, but it is Minister Petříček, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, who guarantees official Czech foreign policy, which has simply made it clear to the Russian Party that, unlike the Russian Federation, they have the right to decide on certain matters. And to call for graves, monuments of our heroes not to be repaired, and for that decision to applaud, I really consider it something that one of the top constitutional officials, under the name of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, should not be allowed to do on the official trip abroad. The resolution is very simple. I want the Chamber of Deputies to distance itself from the words of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, who spoke for the Russian military website Krasnaya zvezda, on the topic of Czechoslovak legionnaires and fasciisation of Czech politics. I want the Chamber of Deputies to declare that the words of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip do not in any way represent the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. For another, he calls on Vice-President Vojtěch Filip to represent the Czech Republic and its official foreign policy direction as a constitutional official in public statements. Fourthly, I hope that even the vast majority of Members represented in this Chamber of Deputies will not contradict - I want the Chamber of Deputies to declare that they appreciate the fight of Czechoslovak legionnaires during the First World War, who, with their courage and determination, have fundamentally made the creation of a separate, free and democratic Czechoslovakia. I would like to point out once again that Vice-President Filip spoke on behalf of other citizens of the Czech Republic. I want to say that he did not speak on my behalf, and for the next time, please speak only on behalf of his post as Chairman of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, let him speak on behalf of the Czech Communists, but do not speak on behalf of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and he did so in his statement in a truly and verifiable manner. I think it is quite appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to distance itself from that point. Allow me to justify yet another point which I request without a solid inclusion at today's meeting. Once again, the Club of Mayors and Independent 7. 4. Calls on the Chamber of Deputies to establish a temporary committee for the control of smart quarantine. At that point, I was also told in plenary that the function would be held by the wiretap committee. However, by its own resolution at the last meeting, the Commission on wiretapping stated that it had no legislative right to engage in the subject matter, and it itself recommended that by its own resolution, i.e. the vote of Members across the political spectrum, it be established... [[Strong noise in the hall. The speaker turns to the President, who rings the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To set up a special committee. I therefore ask you to think about this because the Commission on wiretapping is once again represented only by MEPs and politicians. We propose to the committee where all political clubs represented in the Chamber of Deputies will be represented, with parliamentary clubs being able to nominate expert nominees, experts. Smart quarantine is a clever solution, and we support it. A clever quarantine can help us at a time when, God forbid, a second wave of coronavirus in the Czech Republic would take place and we would be faced with a decision as to what measures to declare again. A clever quarantine can help us to avoid declaring measures to the extent that they were in the case of the first wave. At the same time, it must be said that smart quarantine operates with data from payment cards, with data from mobile operators, and it is necessary to establish strict parliamentary control of such sensitive data of citizens of the Czech Republic. And the other dimension of this commission is that experts can, of course, also provide opposing views on how smart quarantine in technical terms, in technical parameters, could work to be a really effective tool and, as Members, to have an idea as to whether smart quarantine really works, to what extent, what data it has already delivered to us, it has not brought what smart quarantine can bring to us in the coming years as a clever tool of how to face epidemic dangers. [[14.20 hours]] Therefore, please support the inclusion of this point. And once again, your representatives voted in favour of the resolution of the Commission on wiretapping, which recommends the setting up of the commission. As STAN, we propose a temporary commission of up to 31. 8. 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. President Jurečka is also on the agenda for a priority meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. I'll follow Mr. Vítek Rakušan. I must say that what he referred to here is a very important proposal for the agenda for this meeting to be made clear here and to explain how, therefore, what has been said by Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, as we take it as the Chamber of Deputies. If most of the Chamber of Deputies accept that it was something that was said for them, or it was a total nonsense. Because from my perspective, Vojtěch Filip spoke like an old Bolshevik. Because, of course, the Bolsheviks resented the legionnaires' progress and their fight against the Bolsheviks in Russia. So I understand that a hard-core communist must have been upset by this kind of procedure. But it is the spitting of the monument of more than 60,000 legionnaires, who have been involved in Russia for years in the victory of World War I and have laid the foundations for the creation of a independent Czechoslovak state. I think there are many grandfathers and great-grandfathers in many of the communities we come from or in our families who fought there at the time, and some of them gave their lives. It is more than 4,100 people who gave their lives in Russia at that time, too, for being able to arise as a separate Czechoslovak state. And I would very much like us to clarify, as the Chamber of Deputies, whether we consider such statements as official representation of the representative of the Chamber of Deputies. The second thing I'd have to say. I would very much like to see either the Prime Minister or the Chairman of the ANO Group of Parliament to explain to us the comments made by our fellow Member Kořanová, who we can read today in the media, about what awaits us on the House's agenda tomorrow, namely the election of members to media councils. If I read in Info about the procedure in tomorrow's election, what is the strategy in terms of the proposal to dismiss a member of the Czech Television Council, I must say that I am very surprised. I would very much like to hear from President Faltýnek or the President of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš, if this is therefore the official approach of the entire ANO parliamentary club to the election we have to take tomorrow. Because what has been said in the media, I hope that it will be demented and explained more clearly. [[Messenger. The faltyne reacts from the diaper.]] I will ask, Mr Faltýnek, through Mr President, to shout at us in this way is completely unnecessary. If we are reading that there is simply a plan for how one current member of the Czech Television Council will be called off, how it will be replaced, that the Communists do not have a place on the media council, and that is why they have to create and release this place, then I must confess that this is really a great nonsense. We have counsel before the secret election tomorrow. The board has a clear legal obligation, it has a clear status. And if this is how we handle it here, how we can read it, I hope that information will be heard that it is something that completely contradicts the way the entire coalition is going to approach the ANO movement tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u7	I take it you're proposing a new point, or are you just calling for an opinion? [[I'm just calling for an opinion.]] It merely calls for not a proposal to complement the programme. We have Mr Veselý, President of the Foreign Committee, and Vice-President Filip with priority right here, and then Mr Faltynek, President Faltýnek, applied to me, if I have registered well. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, would like to propose a new point. It would be called compensation for the reduction of the tax revenue of municipalities and regions as a result of the payment of the compensatory bonus. I also consulted this point with my colleague Martínek from the Pirates, so let us say that this is a joint proposal. Then he will also comment on it. What's going on? We know that we're supposed to have a Senate return on the payout of the compensation bonus tonight. In principle, the Senate's return responds to the fact that municipalities and regions lose parts of the RUD due to the payment of the compensatory bonus. If we voted in favour of the Senate version, there is a problem - and I hope we are somehow in agreement - that the compensation bonus could not be paid and would cause a huge problem. On the other hand, we agree that it is unfair for municipalities and regions to participate in their funding for the payment of the compensatory bonus. So we want to propose a special point that we would put before the House of Press 850, which is based on the way I watched the agenda, so that would be a new point two. If we had adopted a resolution that we would have expressed on this matter and helped the government, or ordered the government to respond in some way to the fact that municipalities and regions would not pay purely out of their own, or that the loss resulting from the payment of the compensatory bonus should be replaced. We have also considered the model, say, accompanying the resolution on the House's own press, but we know that it is uncomfortable with the Rules of Procedure, which is why we are proposing this special point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Vice-President Filip, then President Faltýnek, then President Stanjura. All priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I will be brief. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies include in this meeting a new item entitled Accompanying Resolution on Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on Compensation Bonus. So it's the printing of 850. The reason is simple. Because, as the previous speaker said, in the event of the adoption of the Senate motion, we're going to have a breakdown in the payment of the compensation. But also the financing of municipalities will collapse, and it is therefore necessary to decide as soon as possible how to proceed in particular for the benefit of small municipalities who are experiencing difficulties in the outage of those shared taxes. This resolution on the newly included point, which would be just after the press hearing 850, the second point of today's meeting, would be: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to submit - firstly, a proposal for a solution to the loss of income from shared taxes in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants; Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies requests the Government to submit a proposal for financial collateral for investment actions by municipalities and regions in 2020 and 2021 in connection with a tax loss." This is therefore a proposal for a point on which I am asking for inclusion as item number two and a motion for a resolution, so that you know what the purpose of this proposal is. I can thank the Minister of Regional Development for how she treated the municipalities and the new programme that is there. But it is, of course, an area and does not include the very municipalities that are most concerned, when a possible fallout of shared taxes means basically a lack of funding for co-financing. I understand that we have approved a certain financing model here, whether natural persons employed or not, whether small eseróček. But that, of course, is at the expense of the tax result, and those shared taxes are simply divided by the share that is here approved in the budgetary determination of taxes for the state, municipalities and regions. So if all cannot share in the same way, then we need to protect those most vulnerable communities in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Another priority right, President Faltýnek. Mr. Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'm a little cold, so I'm not gonna be personal. I would just like to respond briefly to the speech by you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Jurečka, with whom I have had the opportunity to work for four years as Minister of Agriculture and which I still appreciate. Mr President Jurečka, through Mr President, if I had to believe everything I read about myself in various media, but also about you, I would have to be in a madhouse long ago. It's always better to read what's relevant somewhere. We, perhaps all Members, have received a medallion of candidates for the Czech Television Council, as far as the choice of media councils is concerned. You all know the material, I presume. At least our MPs have it because I sent it to all of them. Well, I might be interested in a sentence here, a second before I find it, with the candidate, Dr. Ivan Douda. Yeah, I didn't say who sent it -- State reconstruction sent it to all of us. Douda - these are controversys like, yeah. We're just saying recommendation, it's not about who you're supposed to vote for, it's just the candidate's medallion. Yeah? And I'll talk them all out when we've got time, so it's okay. So Ivan Douda. Opinions, attitudes, controversy. They're afraid of Western universities and decadence. For some young people, they see the same enthusiasm as in the 1950s, only in the form of correctness or the fight against climate change. Another controversy - he likes to get acquainted with the opinions of Václav Klaus Jr. and agrees with the overwhelming majority. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm not commenting, I'm just quoting from the material we've all received. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Right. You say, colleagues, why am I reading this to you? I'm not gonna read it, it's pointless because you've all read it, so it's just my short reaction. There are secret choices, I suppose, we've all made a promise, so we should all vote in secret to our best knowledge and conscience. And that's about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. President Bartošek will be ready. All priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u14	So much inspiration in previous performances, I didn't see that coming. First of all, I would like to wish you a good morning and appreciate Mr. Veselý's wake-up call. Excellent idea. A little late. I'm used to a certain degree of creativity that a government MP steals a proposal from the opposition, or the government as a whole says it's theirs, but this rate has gone a little beyond taste. Then Vice-President Filip joined in and continued. So let's talk about the impact of the bonus on cities and municipalities. It's obvious from the very first moment that it is. And it's an undeserved impact on cities and communities. We are not talking about a decrease in shared taxes due to a lower performance of the economy. This is understood by every mayor, every representative, that if the overall performance of the Czech economy falls, total tax revenues fall, almost all taxes except excise duty or real estate tax are shared taxes, so it has an impact on the budget of cities, municipalities and regions. It is equally unfair to say that in recent years the incomes of municipalities and regions have increased. Yes, but thanks again to the performance of the Czech economy, thanks to entrepreneurs and employers, and grew to all, in about 70 percent of the state, 23.5 percent of municipalities and cities and 9 percent of regions. So that's not a fair argument. On 20 April, Mr Veselý, through the President, as citizens' democrats, we drew attention to the problem and proposed a simple solution. Today is May 27th, a month and a week, and you come up with a motion for a toothless resolution. Our proposal is quite simple, and the government can do it if not today, tomorrow. By the end of the week, for sure, and by the end of the week, the mayors can have the money in their accounts. Let's use a simple key - a thousand crowns per citizen - that's 10,5 billion. in the budget of cities and municipalities. The way you send backup on shared taxes twice a month, the state sends it. From the government's budget reserve, where we moved hundreds of billions of crowns by law. We don't have to invent complicated grant titles, as I've heard - MMR prepares a new grant title. It's useless. It's gonna take a long time. Bureaucracy. It won't be for everyone. If we want to bind the government, and this is primarily a task for government MPs, because the opposition itself can't do it, then let's tie up the government to pay 10,5 billion out of the government's budget reserve this week. cities and municipalities according to the simple key. Feel free to put in the investment and maintenance of the property, because the investment is not enough. Very often, the limit between property maintenance and investment is thin and depends on the specific interpretation of the economist and auditor or tax advisor. And the mayors and citizens in those cities and municipalities will know that the compensation bonus is actually paid by the state. Otherwise it's not true, 25. 500 crowns a day. If we count it fast, it's 330 crowns a day from the state budget, not 500. The regional councils send less than 50 and roughly 120 crowns of municipal councils. Still, I've never heard it when the government said "we've got 25. " Well, that's not a pětadvacítka-year-old. And if we have to say that the twenty-five is from three parts, about 66 percent of the state, 9 percent of the region -- let me round it up so there's no hundredths -- and 25 percent of the city and the village. That's correct information. And I think it's fair that the cost should be borne by the state to compensate 34 percent of the cities, municipalities and regions. And you know we don't have a single captain, so it's not politically motivated by any party policy. So just a simple order, 14 regions, because Prague also has the character of the region, 400 crowns per citizen, this week it can leave, a thousand crowns per citizen in every village, this week it can leave, and the debate on point 2 will be very simple and we will support the House version for the first time. But please do not put two groups of citizens against each other in your speeches. Do not build mayors and self-government against tradesmen and small s. r. o. It's just not like that. I need your help, too. And the solution that we are proposing and which we are giving for free as good advice to the government is simple, feasible and can really be this week. And we don't have to invent new grant titles with someone writing them, someone evaluating them, someone controlling them. He's not gonna get all of them anyway. What is the difference between a village with 2,900 inhabitants and 3,100 inhabitants? None. In our ratio, there would be a difference of 200 thousand. Crowns. The first one would get 2,9 miles. And the other 3.1 miles. And it's fair. Everyone will understand. Each of these citizens can then ask their mayor and their deputy: How did you use the money? How you used them in my community, which has 1,800 inhabitants, i.e. 1.8 miles. What did you make of it? Did you fix the pavement, mow the grass three times, fix the firehouse? That's the money everyone imagines. And it can be solved really easily. Yes, in my opinion, colleagues in the Senate in despair - I think in a good way - have prepared a bill that will arrive here, which actually solves the same thing. We don't need the law to do that, it's enough to do the will of the Chamber of Deputies and the will of the government. And we have the problem solved. If the government says through the mouth of its ministers "we are ready for those 10 billion. give to the municipalities", so let's not invent grant titles and send it. It'll be fair for everyone. In the smaller municipalities at all, it is difficult to write a grant application, sign up on time, process all documents, keep records correctly, then bill it then deal with control. Why do it so complicated when it's easy? So please also Mr Veselý, let us - calmly, we will vote in favour - bind the government to pay it off this week, or let us be generous, by the end of next week. The government can handle it, it has the money in the government's budget reserve, it will save everyone and its officials, as well as city and community officials, mayors and representatives. And then it will be fair to say, tradesmen, self-righteous, little eseróčka supported the 500 a day stand. Tax, of course. Of course, it's actually paid by taxpayers. There's no other money in the state. Sometimes the government says that, sometimes it doesn't, depending on how useful it is. If he doesn't want to give something, he says, "that's your money, look, they're after your money." And if he wants to give it, he says, "we gave it to you, we found the 10 billion, the 20, the 200." And the truth is simple. It's taxpayers' money. [[14.40 hours]] So we're ready to support this point as a first point. The debate can be very simple. We'll tie the government - the secretary will tell you that it's technically possible when the government decides it's not a problem. When they were able - Financial Administration - to pay 700 thousand. I'm sure they'll be able to send money to 6 250 municipalities and 14 regions if I have good information from this morning. It's as simple as that. And any council can handle it, and they can let go of these events right now, and they don't have to wait for any grant title. And then, with a calm conscience, we can do what the Minister of Finance wants to do, approve item 2 of today's agenda in the House version, I feel that we've all voted for it, if memory doesn't deceive me, it wasn't a single-vote combat vote by the government versus the opposition. So let's not look for a complicated solution. If everyone here is saying, even the representatives of the government, that they want to compensate the municipalities, let's solve it this simple, elegantly and more quickly. And the deputies will deal with it, don't worry, from the smallest to the largest village they can do better than us or the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes for health reasons today. Another with priority rights, President Bartošek, then President Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only briefly to social democracy. You do not need to place a new point, you do not need to look for accompanying resolutions as a Communist party. We have a solution here, and that's the Senate bill. It seems as if the Social Democrats and Communists have now come to the Chamber of Deputies for Indulgence, because they have specially participated in the law, along with the ANO movement, which takes money from the authorities. And now social democracy does what it does when it wasn't there. This means social democracy, yes, has approved and supported a law that takes money from governments and regions. That is, if you are in government, you are to influence it when laws are being prepared. You, unlike the opposition, have that option. The opposition can only deal with these things when the law comes to the House. That means you failed, and now you are in vain looking for a solution. So support the Senate's return, and it's settled now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. President Farský. I'd like to ask you all to keep your voice down. If you have a solution, please go to the lobby, allow your colleagues to perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. One possibility here is to adopt some toothless resolutions that will fall here like x others before us. But one solution is already proposed here. Well, I'd put it right in a specific design. Under point 206, print 753, there is a bill amending the Act on Budgetary Determination of Taxes, in which what has been proposed here goes by simple regulation and by its adoption. I therefore propose that we vote on the inclusion of paragraph 206, House Press 753, as the first item in tomorrow's negotiations. It's a point that solves it conceptually. The debate we're having here with each other can be resolved for a long time by setting the funding as it answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u19	First point in the morning? Just to be safe, I'm asking. First item in tomorrow's meeting. Well, at this point, with priority rights, everyone has signed up. Then I'll follow the written applications. Mrs Černochová came forward first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u20	[[It disinfects the ready-made disinfection of microphones and the speaker counter.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. You have certainly registered the statement of the current Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Tomáš Petříček, and his predecessors Lubomír Zaorálek and Karel Schwarzenberg, published in the press, in which they warned against the illegal procedure of the State of Israel in resolving the Middle East conflict, against the alleged anexation of Palestinian territories and human rights violations. In the text of the statement, they declared that it was just some kind of friendly advice from the allied country with which the Czech Republic has long-standing traditional ties -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u21	I will interrupt you, Madame. I beg you to consider your colleague and keep your voice down! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u22	- and appeal to the fact that friends can tell each other things openly. Yes, it really is, however, the way in which this text was conceived, and its form is not only in my opinion rather hostile. First of all, friends trust each other. They don't suspect above all, and they don't publicly point out to each other that he may be a potential criminal. And unfortunately, this text cannot be understood as anything other than suspicious and defamatory. And if you really think of your friend as being allowed to act behind the edge of the law, you will certainly not publish your considerations in the media, but you will go and tell him your reservations in person. That's the only way to be true friendship. At the same time, I would like to point out that all three authors, as experienced politicians and diplomats, certainly know how the foreign policy of the state is to be created. That it is not possible to build it on similar solo actions of government members without coordination with other constitutional actors. They certainly know that similar activities only lead to our foreign policy becoming unreadable and incomprehensible not only for Israel but for the entire international community. Especially when they are out of line with what our countries have declared and how they are acting in the long run, and this has unfortunately happened in this case, because all the revolutionary governments have made it clear that they want to deepen and develop our relationship with the State of Israel and not bring any element of distrust into it. I believe that this statement has simply damaged our relations with the State of Israel and is weakening its position, as it can become a good argument for its traditional enemies that even its allies do not trust it. I therefore believe that the Chamber of Deputies should make it clear that nothing changes in the position of the Czech Republic, that we trust and support our partner in peaceful efforts. Therefore, on the agenda of our meeting, I would like to propose a new item entitled The position of the Chamber of Deputies on relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel, and on this point I would like to propose a resolution in the spirit of what I am saying here. I beg you to place this point on Wednesday, tomorrow, as the third point after those fixed points that other colleagues have been reading here. And the fact that this resolution should be consensual in some way is clear to me, so I am prepared to support the resolutions of some other colleagues that I know will propose something similar. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Next on the agenda is Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u24	So hello, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to add to the proposal by my colleague Veselý, who is presenting here on the inclusion of a point relating to the resolution of the government's revenue loss due to the compensatory bonus that should be placed before the House press 850. Personally, I would like to load some consensual resolution on which we would agree in some way and resolve this problem so that the municipalities can continue to secure their funding. I propose that then the resolution should read as follows: The Chamber of Deputies warns the government that the current adjustment of the compensatory bonus threatens the stability of the budgets of self-governing bodies and undermines their certainty and calls on the government to prepare a proposal for a one-off measure for 2020, which will provide the municipalities with one-off financial compensation for the loss of income caused by the compensation bonus, at least to the following amount: CZK 1,100 to the municipality, CZK 400 to the region and CZK 1,500 to the capital of Prague for each citizen. [[There's a lot of noise and bad hearing in the room.]] The reason is clear. It is based on the budgetary determination of taxes. Prague, which is also a city and a municipality, is actually the sum of these amounts. Municipalities and regions are currently faced with challenges such as interest-free lending, planned investment and other expenditure needs. For these and other reasons, it is problematic to interfere with expected revenue. The financing of self-governments has many advantages, the state above all borrows at lower interest than self-governments, self-governments often have an effective opportunity to invest in upcoming projects, which may be important for the recovery of the economy after the end of the Coronavirus-related measures. I would also like to propose, in addition to this, that the pirate proposal, House press 293, on the reduction to the abolition of property acquisition tax, be classified as a government proposal, House press 866, now item 74, so that we can have a debate together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Vymazal is next on the agenda. Come, Mr. Ambassador, then with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the government for agreeing to the amendment to the Act on addictive substances dealing with cannabis treatment for therapeutic use two weeks ago. We're finally there. I must also remind you that there has been an amendment to the same law in the House for a year and a half under which Members across the political spectrum have been signed. This amendment, which allows the production of limited quantities of cannabis to be self-grown, should be discussed with the aforementioned government amendment. In accordance with the practice of this House, I therefore request the inclusion of House press 331, paragraph 108 of this meeting, immediately for the press of 864, paragraph 73 of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have announced at the meeting of today's political grémium that I will propose a new point without a firm classification, because if we include that point, then we could have political debates when we could discuss that point. The point is very simple. We propose setting up a commission of the Chamber of Deputies to evaluate the effectiveness of government aid. We have already agreed at this meeting that we will discuss how programs work - Antivirus, there are more programs. We think it would be good if such a detailed debate could take place at the level of the parliamentary committee and once we agree, in two months, a report on what the committee has achieved could be regularly included in the meeting. It is not meant to serve as a criticism, but really to evaluate, so that we get accurate information, which programs are successful, whether large companies, medium, small, self-employed and so on, and possibly we could also propose some corrections towards the government, how to change programs based on experience from practice. We would like to propose that the commission not be an investigative committee, but a standard committee, that each member's club be represented by one Member or one Member, that is, nine members according to nine Members' clubs. I think it would be appropriate for all the MPs to support this, because I think it will save us time for plenary. The debate on the effectiveness and results of the support programmes certainly awaits us and we find it more effective to conduct the debate primarily on the committee and to present the possible results to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. So please support the inclusion of a new point. If this passes, I will discuss with the presidents of other Members' Clubs both the format of the Commission and, if necessary, the date when we can decide on the establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Mrs Miloslava Vostrá is also on the agenda. If she's not here right now, we'll put her at the end of the enrollment. I will ask Mr Miloslav Janulík on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. My colleagues, I have a point similar to that of my colleague Černochová, and that is the position of the Chamber of Deputies, not to relations with the State of Israel, but to an article of three foreign ministers, one of the former (?), because I think the relationships are good and constant. But I would appeal here to all the members of the inter-European group of friends, or almost all, because I know that some of them are lukewarm, but there are almost sixty of us, so I would ask very much to support this point so that the House can take a position on the views expressed in that article. I repeat again that these are not relations with the State of Israel, which I consider excellent and unchanging. I would suggest an extraordinary point, on Wednesday as the third point of the afternoon's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. In addition to the agenda of the meeting, Mr Václav Klaus. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u32	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to make three proposals to change the agenda. The first point I am going to propose is the pre-schedule of the government bill on the abolition of property acquisition tax, paragraph 74, House print 866, as the first point in the first reading block. Reason. I was signed under the bill, which abolished the real estate tax, which the government majority rejected, and I have now noted in the framework of the coronavirus crisis that the Minister has proposed the abolition of this tax. I must say that when I follow government policy, it is very often different how it communicates with the public, with the media, where I often agree with them, and then versus reality - here in silence in the House or in Brussels. So I would like to give the opportunity for this law to pass through the House smoothly and quickly, because, as I understand, the vast majority of the opposition, including Tricolor, is in favour. It is a government proposal, so nothing prevents us from discussing this very quickly and getting rid of citizens of this unnecessary tax. That's point number one. I also propose the inclusion of a new point for tomorrow as the first afternoon point, and that is the information of Mr Havlíček's Minister of Economy and Industry on our position on the European Green Deal. The reasons are almost the same as for the previous point. I am quite pleased to note the fiery criticism of Prime Minister Babiš against the European Green Deal, because we are on the side of industry against various green lunatics. But the reality is that Minister Brabec and the government have already quietly sent to Brussels an opinion that we will submit and participate and so on. I'd like that cleared up. I respect my colleagues here who defend these green ideologies fieryly, that is their sacred right, we as a trikolóra are against it, but I find it very unfortunate that someone is acting against it in Lightning, in the media and for TV Nova viewers, but then in reality is doing the opposite. So I'd like the Minister to clarify. [[15.00 hours]] Of course, this point also includes the situation in Sokolovsko. You may have noticed a petition by about three dozen mayors, where there is simply a threat of closure of the gas operation of Vřesová, North Bohemian large company, due to emission allowances, there is a threat of a subsequent increase in unemployment, because of course it has an impact on the mine, and so on. On top of that, the complete tragedy of the spa with the current tragic season. So let the minister tell us what the position of the Czech government is, whether it is for those bankers who trade allowances and such city hipsters, or whether they are on the side of the Czech industry and the population. So that's point number two. And as the third point, after this point, i.e. on Wednesday as the second point, I propose information from the Minister of the Army on the situation in military procurement. We as the Trikolóra don't think that the military should be the first to investigate, which will still have to come. It is for the reason that even as I watch my honored and less honored colleagues here, many of them would like to launch some war strikes, as I follow their rhetoric. We need a strong army for that. We as a trikolóra are in favour of friendly relations with the countries of the world, but we still need a strong army to have that position strong enough. And since something is being bought, we would be very happy that the vast majority of suppliers are Czech companies, because Czech armory is a concept in the world. We're not some nomad country that can't even make a bullet. We are simply historically high-quality industrial countries. And since I have information, maybe the infantry contract is 80 per cent tailor-made to foreign suppliers. I would like to ask the Minister to inform us of the situation, the plans of the military, and to discuss this point because it is important. So these are my three points. I hope the President has recorded them. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u33	I'm just pointing out that your proposal to put it as the first point of the afternoon - at this point, there's a glamorous proposal. Do you insist on being first or after those who are from Gremium?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u34	After a gremial design. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u35	Okay. And then the Department of Defense would follow? [[Yes.]] Okay. Thanks for the clarification. Mrs Lucie Šafránková is also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good afternoon. On behalf of the SPD MEP, I would like to propose to include in the 49th session of the Chamber of Deputies an extraordinary item under the title of Eliminating discrimination against workers on parttime jobs and on agreements outside the main employment relationship with regard to their access to State financial assistance and compensation for losses in their income as a result of the introduction of emergency emergency measures in relation to the pandemic of the COVID-19 virus. This discrimination concerns, in particular, employees outside the main employment relationship working on employment agreements and labour agreements or, where appropriate, part-time employment agreements, and, at the same time, tradesmen whose self-employment is considered secondary by law. Although this term does not say anything about where most of their income comes from, the situation most affects citizens with lower incomes, singles and singles. Thus, there is also a threat to the standard of living of their careless children. The SPD's movement has been drawing attention to this situation since the start of the emergency. We have tabled almost two dozen amendments in this regard. All of them were rejected by government MPs. The current situation is that the Act on the so-called compensation bonus for the CFI excludes all persons who, in addition to their business, are insured employees, regardless of what their income from employment is and what their main source of income is, regardless of whether they had to limit or stop their business as a result of emergency measures. Moreover, many of them began working as employees only after they were prevented from doing business in order to ensure the basic needs of their families, and, paradoxically, they lost hope of any financial assistance from the state. The State is thus de facto punishing honesty and trying to raise funds by its own work. Thus, staff members often find themselves completely out of funds and threaten to fall into debt and execution traps. There are also many specific human stories about which we are informed daily. For a long time, these citizens were not even entitled to emergency care care for children because of the closure of schools and kindergartens. After all, they are still not entitled to it as a self-employed person. In addition, not since the beginning of the quarantine period, and in significantly lower financial volumes than self-employed persons, only some of them are entitled to the infirmary as part of the work contracts and work activities. And those parents who work in so - called agreements while caring for children over 13 years of age are not entitled to the infirmary at all. For the reasons set out above, and also because the end of the so-called second bonus period for the CFI is near, and the government has not yet expressed itself in the form of the subsequent compensation, I propose to include this extraordinary point at the current meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today as the first point after the fixed points from the Gremia. This item should also include the adoption of a resolution on this text: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present a legislative proposal by 1 June 2020 to eliminate discrimination against employees on part-time jobs and on agreements outside the main employment relationship in terms of their access to financial assistance and to compensate for losses in their income as a result of the introduction of emergency emergency measures in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic, in particular in order to eliminate their discrimination on access to the so-called compensatory bonus within the meaning of Act No. 159/2020 Sb." Furthermore, I would also like to ask for the inclusion of paragraph 178, which is House Press 664. It's our SPD proposal to cancel the property acquisition tax. And I would like to propose that he be included as the House Press 866. Thank you for your attention and I would like your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. I wasn't interrupting the lady, but I'd really like to ask the least-emerging MPs to go to the lobby and talk to them. I don't want to name it. The next one is on the agenda of the meeting, Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is 15.07 p.m., we have reached the end of the proposal for a change of programme, which is why I would like to start before asking for a proposal that you could vote on, I would ask you, colleagues, who are all feeling a certain disharmony between the Czech Republic and Israel's group of friends and the Czech Republic and Palestine's group of friends, and sorry, there is not yet, or if you feel this disharmony, please contact me and let us also start a group of friends of the Czech Republic and Palestine, so that we can discuss the debate in more detail here as well. [[The noise in the hall still persists.]] But now to that point that I would like to propose, and I would like to take your attention perhaps to a negative problem, but quite important in the current situation. We're in a crisis, an economic crisis. And I'm sure you've picked up dozens of suggestions in the media on how to get the money easy. Dozens of banking, non-banking and off-bank spaces offer advertisements: borrow from us - fast, instantly, cheaply. And you think it's really fast, instantly and cheaply? I don't think so. Therefore, I would like to ask you all very much to put forward the proposal for regulation of advertising submitted by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which is ranked as a point at first reading, as the first item of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mr Lipavský is also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will once again propose a point entitled Information of the Government on the planned support of Smartwings on Wednesday 3. 6th as the first point of the afternoon block. If there's an emergency meeting on Thursday, the program will be approved and we can talk about it, so this point will be exhausted, so it won't take us any more time. However, today we still learn this information completely unsystematically, from the media, not transparently, the government still hasn't said what it wants to do. We're talking 1.5 to 2.5 billion. CZK from the Czech state budget, which in the event of the failure of this company - and if we look at what the development of the aviation market is, this is a scenario that can occur and which will be paid by our citizens from the Czech budget. That means it's not small money. It doesn't really matter if it's in the form of a loan or a loan guarantee, the principle is still the same. And we also don't know if the shareholders actually used up all the options to save the company. The process is untransparable, and transparency also turns out to be one of the greatest pains. Who's gonna get those guarantees, those state guarantees? Who owns Smartwings? We don't really know, because on the Chinese side, or on the CITIC shareholder's side, it leads somewhere to Hong Kong, and that's where it ends. So the Rainbow Investments, anyway. So the Ministry of Industry and Trade knows? Does the government know who it wants to guarantee? This is also a matter that the citizens of the Czech Republic should clearly know where their money will go. I do not want to repeat the arguments that I have said here twice: simply Smartwings is not a strategic company, it is not possible to speak that it is a business card of the Czech business segment. They're not even critical of the traffic service. So he doesn't deserve state aid. This is what small businessmen, tradesmen who suffer most from the crisis and also the state can kneel for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That's how we got to the end of the applications. Once again, I call on Mrs Vostroa, who I have placed at the end, but who is not present. So this proposal will no longer be heard. So I will call my colleagues from the lobby and deal with the proposals that have been made so far. We vote nicely, there's plenty of suggestions. So we would vote first. There's a request for a check-out that I've just granted. And I'm gonna ask you to re-engage. First, then, we will vote on the proposals tabled by the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies. If there is no objection, we will deal with the whole grémia proposal with one vote. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the vote. I ask who is in favour of the grémia proposal as it was said. Who's against it? Voting number three, 188 Members registered, for 185, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now we will deal with the proposals tabled by President Rakušan, and first it is a proposal to include a new item in the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the merits of Czechoslovak legionnaires. First, the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 190, for 173, against no one. The motion was accepted. The President is proposing this point as the first item in the negotiations today, a firm inclusion. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of a fixed classification of this point? Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered is 190, for 68, against no one. The motion was not accepted. In addition, President Rakušan proposes the inclusion of a new item Proposal for the establishment of a temporary commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the supervision of the use of data by mobile operators, payment cards and other sensitive data in connection with the introduction of the so-called Smart quarantine. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Who's against it? Voting number six, 191 Members registered, for 74, against 2. The motion was not accepted. President Jurečka did not propose any specific point, he merely applied to the previous proposals. Mr Veselý proposes the inclusion of a new point in the Compensation for the reduction of government tax revenue in connection with the compensatory bonus. That's how I marked the name of the point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. First, the inclusion of a new point. Who's against it? Voting number seven, 191 Members registered, for 100, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Veselý further proposed that this point be placed as the second item in today's negotiations at the moment. That is, before we vote on the bill returned to the Senate on the compensation bonus. Initiating vote. I'm asking who is in favour of a fixed classification of this point. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 193 Members registered, for 130, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, there is the proposal by Vice-President Filip to include a new point which would be called the Accompanying Resolution on the point of printing 850, which is the one on which we are again a compensatory bonus, and thus the inclusion of a new point in the accompanying resolution. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 9, there are 194 Members registered, for 65, against 17. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is the proposal by President Farský, in order to include paragraph 206, press 753, the amendment to the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes, as the first item for tomorrow's meeting, i.e. morning. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 10, 194 Members registered, for 63, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the proposal by Mrs Černochová, who proposes to include a new point in the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 11, 192 Members registered, for 63, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will no longer vote for a firm position. [[15.20 hours]] Mr Martínek proposes paragraph 293 - or the press? - Print 293. [[Voice from the diaper: Press.]] They're about the same subject. This is a cancellation of the property acquisition tax. This means, for printing 866, which we have now classified on the basis of the proposal of the Gremium after this point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 12. Registered 194, 91, no one. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal by Mr Vyšal that we should place the House press 331 behind the House press 864. Point 73. This concerns therapeutic cannabis or cannabis cultivation for therapeutic purposes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 13. It's logged in 194, for 141, versus 2. This proposal was adopted. There is now a proposal from President Stanjura on a new point - the establishment of a Commission of the Chamber of Deputies to assess the effectiveness of government aid. Classification of the new item. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 14. Registered 194, for 108, versus 3. The motion was accepted. Fixed inclusion will be further discussed, not proposed. We will now vote on the proposal by Mr Janulík, who proposes to include a new item in the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the observations of three foreign ministers. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 15. Registered is 192, for 126, versus 5. This proposal was adopted. Mr Janulík proposes to include this firmly as the third item tomorrow afternoon. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 16. Registered is 193, for 72, versus 2. This proposal was not adopted. We now have several proposals from Mr Václav Klaus. First, it proposes to pre-schedule printing 866, abolishing the property acquisition tax, as the first in the first reading block. The proposal is voteable, although we have decided on a firm inclusion. In theory, it may not be discussed. In that case, Mr Klaus's proposal would come up. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 17. It's logged in 194, for 58, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Mr Klaus is now proposing to include a new item - the information of the Minister of Economic Affairs on the European Green Deal. So I wrote down this point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. [[Voices from the diaper.]] I hear objections to the vote, but... okay. I declare this vote confusing. I wrote exactly what, but the name of Minister Havlíček was given.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u42	I said the Minister of Economics, the Minister of Industry, and then I named this gentleman by name, so you wrote it down...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u43	Wrong. It's possible. So the information of the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček to the European Green Deal will be the right name. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 19. Registered 193, for 77, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. And then there's a proposal to add a new point to the Minister of Defence's information on military contracts. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of adding a new item to the Secretary of Defense's information. Who's against it? Voting number 20. Registered is 193, for 83, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. There is also Mrs Šafránková's proposal to include a new point. Elimination of discrimination against workers on part-time jobs and on agreements outside the main employment relationship in terms of their access to State financial assistance and compensation for losses in their income as a result of the introduction of emergency emergency measures in relation to the pandemic of the COVID-19 virus. Initiating vote. I said, who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 21. It's logged in 194, for 92, against no one. The motion was not accepted. The honourable Member also suggested that we include paragraph 178, print 664, today after the press has discussed 866, the same topic, the abolition of the property acquisition tax. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 22. It's logged in 194 for 82 against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Leo Luzar proposes item 77, House press 180, on the regulation of advertising, to include, or to place as the first point in the block of first reading. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 23. There are 194 Members registered, for 30, against 31. The motion was not accepted. The last proposal that was made is the proposal by Mr Lipavský, who proposes the inclusion of the Government's Information on the planned assistance to Smartwings. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's up for this point? Who's against it? Voting number 24. There are 194 Members registered, for 83, against 2. This proposal was not adopted. [[15.30 hours]] This has dealt with all the proposals that have been made on the agenda, and we will now vote on the agenda of the meeting as a whole. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 25 registered 194, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm saying we've approved the 49th meeting. And now we will proceed to discussing the points as we have decided on them, and at the same time I will pass on the proceedings of the meeting. No, I won't. I'll hold for a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-000-000.u44	The first point we're going to be dealing with is
