ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-09-ps2017-046-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I am opening the 46th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. To be recorded - What Is It? [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] I'm glad you guys stayed here, so I'd make it right. In order to record your involvement, I'm going to unsubscribe you all first. Please log in with your ID cards. This will record the attendance at this meeting. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. If anyone checks in with another replacement card, let them report this. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 42 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, April 2, this year. We will proceed to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Jan Čižinský. Does anyone else have a suggestion? No one, thank you. In that case, we will decide on the number one vote that I have launched. Who is the meeting for these two verifiers? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number one, 92 Members present, for 89, against no one. I note that we have appointed Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Jan Čižinský to the verifiers of this meeting. I confirm that Members who are not present and who are not excused in writing are deemed to be excused on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs with how we met at this meeting in the context of security and crisis measures. We will now proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7, the Rules of Procedure Act, the House shall decide only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will now vote if no one reports. In that case, we will decide in vote number two on the agenda of the meeting. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 2, from 92 Members present, for 7, against 58. The motion has not been approved. I have no choice but to end the 46th meeting. I wish you a good rest of the night and look forward to a proper 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, whose programme you already have in the invitations.
