ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 /house prints 549, 526 and 508/ Then we return to these points again in the order in which they were on the show. I see the board's already been modified. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u2	Mr President, thank you, Mrs and gentlemen, for the floor. I would like to say very briefly to all three of these proposals discussed in the merged debate that all three proposals sort of regulate this fundamental, perhaps in the near or medium-departmented future, what makes the continuation of human civilization even more essential. I'm not exaggerating, it's true. We see that many of the causes of migration are, among other things, that it is migration from drought and the previous poor management of the powers of the devastated landscape. I don't want to say that. I want to say that, even after constitutional lawyers and various others understand this, we have said that there is something that can be used on each of these proposals, and it is a fundamental modification of the constitutional approach, we have met with representatives of all three plaintiff groups or parties, and so I know, and many of you also know that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the constitutional lawyers, has prepared a concept or a proposal, and therefore allow me to go against this proposal, which is prepared in cooperation, or at least with the good knowledge of everyone else, and, for all three proposals, has proposed, when it is procedurally appropriate, a interruption of the discussion until the submission of the government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u3	Thank you for the suggestion. I don't know what the moment is for a procedure, so I'm hoping you'll sign up later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u4	Don't worry, I'll check in on time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u5	Thank you. I'm going to introduce you to a note. Mr Munzar apologizes today from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. So now we will continue the merged debate. Please, Mrs Maříková, Mrs Jarošová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow ministers, we are dealing with drought and water retention in the country, but we are no longer dealing with the cause, the corporations that are draining our water, and the billions of profits that flow abroad, instead of staying here with us and investing them in solving problems. So let's start at the beginning and talk about how our water privatized. Water should be one of our greatest riches for the state. The state and politicians, however, resigned from managing the strategic sectors and thus became only a source of profit. All of this began in 1993, when the state transferred property from regional water management companies to municipalities and towns free of charge, and water plants owned by cities and municipalities were created. The politicians went to the companies and sold themselves and this state. The water sector has a turnover of approximately 35 billion per year. Crowns. Every year, 1.6 to 2.6 billion will leave abroad. CZK on dividends. We do not renew infrastructure for them or solve drought or water retention in the countryside. We as the Czech Republic have none of this. The water profits were privatised and infrastructure costs were nationalised. This is very advantageous for the companies, but disadvantageous for our state. Corporations get richer and the state invests. So the government, in turn the state, must invest itself in projects that solve the consequences and must look for solutions to really increase the supply of groundwater and surface water in the Czech Republic due to climate change (?), the intervention of man and the business of corporations, while foreign corporations are getting richer on our water. Of course, there is a solution, but they are not cheap and cannot be made from day to day. The most important measure to contain water is to keep it in the landscape. Water retention in the landscape can be improved by changing the farming method, dividing the landscape into smaller units and limiting the stopping of agricultural land by concrete for the construction of various premises. The impact on the ability of the landscape to contain and absorb water has heavy agricultural technology. Because of its weight, it suffocates the soil, causing the water to remain on the surface and flow away. The limits, the ties, the lonely trees, have disappeared. Over-melioration also contributed significantly to the water drain. The chemical fertilizers that destroyed the organisms present in the soil, which were the basis for the soil's ability to retain water, also choose their part. After all, the agricultural land itself is still declining. According to the Research Institute of Melioration and Soil Protection since 1937 approximately 800,000 hectares have decreased. One hectare of high-quality blackland can hold up to 3.5 thousand. cubic meters of water. Without any thought, we allow the soil to be covered with impenetrable material and thus cause damage to the environment and degrade the soil. Covering the soil with impenetrable material helps to damage biodiversity, increases the risk of flooding and lack of moisture. It also contributes to climate change. The most prominent ones affected by stopping are usually the best soil. To a greater extent, the finest fields are stopped. During heavy rains, the water has nowhere to go and causes local floods.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u7	Madam, I understand you and I will invite your colleagues on both sides of the hall to be more calm so that they can hear what they say here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u8	The impact on animals and plants is also essential. Not only does the territory where they live decrease, but the population of these species is also divided. They are prevented from migration and are restricted by the source of food. Ten centimeters of arable land has been produced for 2,000 years, and instead of protecting the soil more, we're turning it into concrete. Another problem is that soil loses nutrients as organic matter disappears from it. Organic matter is very important for the quality and fertility of the soil. The nutrients taken must be returned to the soil. Farmers supply soil nutrients by fertilizing mineral fertilizers. But catching up with soil fertility by intensive fertilization can lead to its fertility being so low that it will eventually stop yielding profit. Due to the loss of cattle, the required organic substances in the form of manure or urea do not enter the field, thanks to these organic substances the soil was better fertilized. Now they're just taking off from the soil and returning to it only to chemistry. When the Minister of Agriculture here Toman upset about pesticides that we unfairly blame farmers, please read the research of Masaryk University in Brno, which brought alarming results on the amount of pesticides in the soil. According to the Centre for Research on Toxic Substances in the Environment, which examined arable land in 75 places in the Republic, they found high concentrations of pesticides. Eighty per cent of the soil contains at least one pesticide at an excess concentration, and then three or more pesticides at an excess concentration were found in 36 per cent of the soil. The alarming thing is that over ten years of prohibited pesticides have been occurring in the soil, namely Atrazine, and 13 years of prohibited Simazine, which is most likely to enter the soil even though it is banned, with the herbicide Terbutilazine, which is used for corn. We could talk about the negative effects of pesticides on human health, soil quality and water for a long time here. The limits for pesticides in the soil of 1994 were abolished and the new decree of 2016 does not mention non-chlorinated individual or sumar pesticides, so there can now be unlimited quantities in the soil. In one year, less than 5,000 tons of pesticides are sprayed in the Czech Republic. I handed over the research results to you, Minister, through Mr President last year in the framework of oral interventions. I took a bit of a turn, but it didn't let me react to Minister Toman's performance. The collisions leave our territory without benefit and do not restore underground resources, which are pumped for profit in large quantities. The collision is about the same as in the past, but much more often it is the torrential rains that the landscape is misabsorbing because of how it is treated. [[15.40 hours]] The problems we have, we've caused ourselves. And now, instead of eliminating the cause, we're dealing with the consequences. If we continue to act after the Flood, or change something? We destroy nature because we want to live a comfortable, comfortable life. However, we forgot that we are part of flora and fauna. Water shortages can fundamentally affect our world and life on it. [[Big noise in the hall.]] We export in large raw wood -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u9	Madam, I would like to interrupt you and ask my colleagues in the room again for some peace of mind. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u10	We export large quantities of raw wood abroad. After mining, cut shavings are produced, and we don't care that they are forests that prevent further drying out the landscape. Much has been said about the barking calamity, which is very lukewarm. Forests can contain five to nine times as much water as a forestless landscape. In the Czech Republic, forests cover more than 34 percent of the area. However, man's use of the landscape results in a faster drain of water. Unfortunately, we are spending a lot of money today, and it is about 3 billion a year, for water retention in the countryside, but we do not solve the real cause. These are projects improving the renewal of wetlands, pools, bogs, ponds, rivers, alleys and meandering streams. The reason, however, is that we have disrupted the entire water cycle due to comfortable life and profit. The global problem that is being pointed out today is the result of small local problems. The solar energy that would consume itself into herpes will turn to heat on the ground. The water is a heat carrier to the earth's surface and to the upper atmosphere. But we took her out of cities and landscapes. If we want to address the nature of climate change, then let us return water to the water cycle and let the water flow into the green areas. Let's increase green areas instead of fake aesthetics that we're destroying our environment. Let's stop concreteizing the landscape, exhibiting warehouses instead of arable land, cutting down trees senselessly, and apologizing for the raid, and start planting trees. The water that the trees are sucking in will evaporate. One tree corresponds to its ten - air - conditioning performance. And on the other hand, instead of each cut down tree, we have 280 kWh of solar heat that heats up instead. Let us stop supporting foreign corporations that use our natural wealth for their own gain. Let's solve the nature of the problem, not just its symptoms. Let's return water to our administration, not foreign corporations. From profits let us solve the essence of drought problems and restore water infrastructure from them. And let's give people clean water at a reasonable price and a healthy environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u11	Thank you. The next one entered in the debate is Mrs Jarošová. Mr. Benda will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, it is today that we are discussing whether to anchor the protection of water and soil in the Czech Constitution. We know that water directly affects the quality of life. And not only that, it also determines whether there will be a life at all. It is therefore necessary for this commodity to be under State control. Repeated droughts in recent years have clearly shown that water is the raw material around which world politics will revolve. Dryness in the recent past and at present, as well as prognosis by experts, shows that all mankind is on the brink of a global water crisis. As a result of changes in the environment caused by human activity and overall climate change, interest in the conservation of groundwater and surface waters as well as fertile soil is brought to the fore. These are strategically important and irreplaceable raw materials. The frequency and intensity of drought will most likely continue. There's water out of the country. Our groundwater levels are dropping. The flow rates in the rivers, the reservoirs in the dams are decreasing. They're drying out the wells. And often the supply of drinking water varies locally. So states that will not have water resources or arable land under their control will become vulnerable, and that will make their citizens vulnerable. Water, like air or soil, cannot be the subject of trade. And we know that efforts to control resources not only drink water move the world. The privatization of water was then cardinal stupidity, resulting in the current different price and neglected water infrastructure. Private foreign intermediaries do not invest sufficiently in its maintenance and modernisation. This results in frequent water systems accidents. Subsequent losses on drinking water that escape into the surrounding soil as well as repairs will be paid by citizens. The Government's position on this step is disagreeable. The government claims that this is an unnecessary step, as protection of water in Article 7 is already enshrined in the Constitution. I quote: "The state takes care of the gentle use of natural resources and the protection of natural wealth." I don't know if that's enough. Like, if it's enough by the government, then how is it that water almost doesn't belong to us? And why are profits taken abroad in some areas, and municipalities have a minimum share of them? Well, it doesn't seem that redundant to me. On the contrary, I think that's necessary. It is a fact that the price of water varies across regions. But one rule remains. Where sales are made by private companies from abroad, citizens have more expensive water and money will never return to the water infrastructure. Therefore, the SPD will support this law, which will lead to the maximum protection of our water, keeping it accessible to all the population of the Czech Republic, under generally acceptable conditions. Slovenia has already introduced a similar amendment to the constitutional law in 2016 and has done very well. Let us remember that how we face this issue now will significantly affect the lives of our descendants. That is why I think it is more than necessary for the protection of such a strategic resource to be treated in the highest possible way, and that is the adoption of a constitutional law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u13	Thank you. And another is signed up in the debate by Mr Benda and Mr Holomčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all have quite a lot going on today, so I'm gonna try not to be too long, although I think we can talk about this quite a bit. Just as to what was said here in the speech before me, I point out that water destroys them from Roman law, virtually. a public property, and only at some point, it becomes possibly ownership, but it is certainly not that there is any privatisation of water. It's just an absolute misunderstanding of the law. Second point. It was said that the proposals were submitted a year ago. Yes. They were presented a year ago when we had extreme drought and heat. Now we have extreme winters and extreme rains. So just so that sometimes we don't get into the situation that we're dealing with something too current. I would like to say that these proposals certainly have some internal logic, but let us be careful of the good intentions that pave the way to hell. I support all reasonable adjustments to ordinary laws that aim to keep water in the landscape, to better manage water in the landscape and other things. But I have one request. Don't touch the Constitution in connection with water. Let's leave the Constitution alone. Or, if so, after some long and absolutely fundamental and clear discussions that are meant to be the real goal. The government has already said some of the reservations in its opinions. And each of these suggestions is a little different, so it's not exactly trivial. Not even the merged debate... The fact that this is theoretically all about water protection, I think that every article of the Constitution should be talked out long and thorough. And that the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the Right to Water will then be brought together here, and on the other hand property and other things will happen... But in a nutshell, why do I propose in all three cases that these bills be rejected, not just a return to recasting? Denial, because I find all three completely inappropriate. [[15.50 hours]] In addition to printing 549 honored colleagues from the Mayors and Independents, he is attempting to establish a new human right to drinking water. I am very careful to establish new human rights, I consider the scope we have in the Charter sufficient. And please only, whenever such a right - and even for everyone, by far not only for the citizen, is far from for personal use, but probably for everyone, even for every enterprise - the right to drinking water in the Charter, I find it very questionable. The same is true of the case. 3 - Water resources are a public use property and are in the administration of the State. All right. Drinking water supply is provided by municipalities on a non-profit basis. All these thesises - they're in the administration of the state... What about the state, is it going to rent it to the municipalities, or can it also supply drinking water, or does it have to be just the municipalities? I just think that there are total indiscretions that declaring the right to drinking water for everyone without any restrictions is very questionable. Does that mean that when my well is dried up by my house, I have the right to ask the state to get there with a tanker and refill it for me? Free of charge? Does that mean such a right? Does that mean the right to bring a public water supply to every house that isn't set up by a well today? I'm afraid, in a certain type of interpretation, of course, that would mean such a right to drinking water, if the mayors imagine it, that really anyone who remembers, however far away from the village, that he wants to bring the water supply to the house, so that he must bring it to him, I don't know if we want to. The second proposal is a proposal by Members of Marek the Výborný, honored colleagues of the people, who I would say is the most moderate and, in their moderation, I would say, conservative folklore - brings nothing new. [[Laughs of some Members in the Chamber.]] In that case, I consider it necessary. Because water, water resources and soil, according to today's existing interpretation of the Constitution, including repeated interpretation of the Constitutional Court, and not only doctrines, but the Constitutional Court, of course, belongs to natural resources, so it is as if we say - natural resources, especially water resources and land. Well, I don't know why we're piercing these, these aren't, these aren't animals in those woods, these aren't other things -- air isn't... I mean, yeah, I guess you could approve of that, but I think we can do without it in peace. And the last proposal is a Communist proposal that does not go beyond the tradition of this party, because it says - to nationalize everything. Completely simple and hard, all natural resources and natural wealth are owned by the Czech Republic. This means that the Prime Minister respectively. its trust funds must surrender all the land to the people of the Czech Republic, who will become the owner. I don't know if the Communists really intended this, but of course I consider this proposal to be the most controversial and problematic one, and I wonder if the state budget should ever pay the compensation that would have to be paid for it. But this definition - other natural resources and natural wealth are owned by the Czech Republic - really means that everything that is a natural resource and natural wealth would have to be transferred to the ownership of the Czech Republic. I also consider that completely unthinkable. So for these reasons, each of a bit different, but with a request to protect the water, but let's not touch the Constitution, I suggest we reject all three prints. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u15	Thank you. I've noticed the suggestions. Again, there are apologies. Mr Jan Bauer apologizes from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Golasowská apologises between 15.45 and midnight, i.e. until the end of the day, also for reasons of work. I now have Mr Navrkal here with a factual remark from Mr Navrkal's rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would only react briefly to my colleague Benda, who here spoke of fearing in the STAN proposal that there was a new human right being introduced, he listed here that he was afraid that it should mean the right that there would have to be water pipes everywhere, etc. So notabene about a few articles below is Article 33 - everyone has the right to education - and this also does not mean that each state has to pay a personal teacher to educate it at home. So I think it was a bit of a weird argument. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u17	Thank you. And Mr Holomčík, who is now enrolled in the general debate, will be prepared by Mr Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u18	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, many arguments have already been raised here in this debate. I would like to mention three things on the subject of constitutional water protection. The first one-- he's already said it here at the beginning of today, President Bartoš. We are somewhat skeptical of the expected outcome that some form of constitutional protection of water should bring. I am very happy that we are discussing this, it is a very important topic, but in my view, according to the logic as we should approach the solution to the problem, so we should look first and foremost at how the laws that we already have are being observed at this point. At random, I think it would be interesting to analyse what the water law wants in the protection zones around water resources, and what's really going on in those protection zones. This is for example. One thing like that. Next thing you know, from April or May 2018, I'm calling for some forensic analysis of the crust sludge. Another thing, too, when the CHIP, Czech environmental inspection, noted violations of forest law. I understand that now, in this dire situation, some of the provisions of the forest law for owners simply cannot be complied with. I understand that. But the question is whether, in the past, when we still had the best forest status in 2016 in the last 250 years, the question is whether there has been a breach at this time. The P.I.P. clearly said it was happening. So that's another thing we should look at. So, in general, I think we should think about whether at this point we have laws that concern water protection, soil protection, landscape protection or forests that are also important for the management of water in the landscape, whether we are actually using the possibilities that are already in those laws at this point. The second thing - and it also sounded in the debate, but I consider it important, so I will mention it, and this is the way water infrastructure is operated in the Czech Republic, as drinking water is sold to end consumers. In a number of cities or regions, depending on how the waterworks are set up there, we receive information, and there are people who have been pointing this out for decades that those operating models or even privatisations where they took place often show signs of very strange behavior. And I think that if we want to talk about water protection and some guarantees for citizens that they will have drinking water, we should somehow focus systematically on whether or not how different companies have either acquired infrastructure, resources, or how they have come into operation, whether it really is in the interests of the citizens of this country or just in the interests of some small economic groups. And the third thing I want to say, and here I'm basically going to join what my colleague Benda said. Following the KSČM proposal, I would like to encourage that when we want to protect the water, and I believe that this is our common interest so that we do not act like an elephant in porcelain. I will not suspect that the KSČM deliberately put a provision in that proposal which could de facto lead to some massive expropriation, but I consider it very risky. And that's why I'm going to join the motion to dismiss, because I actually see a great risk in that. And that's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u19	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Zahradník is registered. I'll read the apology. Today, Mr Lubomír Lubomír Španěl apologizes between 16.00 and 19.00 until the end of the negotiations due to the hearing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u20	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to comment for the second time today on the alleged privatisation of water in the Czech Republic. Repeating is the mother of wisdom, so I'm willing to repeat my opinion. In fact, the real privatisation of water infrastructure took place only in North Moravia, where approximately 10 percent of the total water infrastructure in the Czech Republic, North Moravia, except I think, Ostrava, was transferred to private hands. So the other infrastructure really belongs to the municipalities or legal entities that the municipalities have set up. The fact that mayors and city councils hire private operators is another matter. And the fact that this is being questioned and almost criminalized is actually a gross insult to those honest mayors who, in complex, very meticulous tenders, are looking for those private operators. Otherwise, of course, where the municipalities resorted to manage the systems themselves, it is unfortunately proven that the municipality is not able to do so to make it effective. So I would like to reiterate that there has been no privatisation of the water infrastructure in our country, so we are talking about the fact that municipalities have properly found operators and the proper resolution of representatives affect the price of water, affect the amount that operators place in the renewal of the infrastructure, and, of course, they also have in their hands the profits that those private companies are making.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u21	Thank you. Mr Radek Holomčík, Mr. Radek Holomčík, will make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. My colleagues warned me that I was not entirely clear in my previous speech when I said that we would support the motion for rejection. So we will not support the motion to reject all three proposals, but we will certainly support the proposal to reject the proposal of the KSČM, but we will support what President Kováčik has said here, the interruption before the Ministry of Agriculture presents its own draft amendment to the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u23	I thank you and the last one entered in the debate is Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u24	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I would like to comment on these three House Presses. I won't be too extensive. I think my colleague Marek Benda actually said it here. The KDU-ČSL proposal under the House press 526 is indeed, I would say, very healthy conservative and moderate. On the other hand, it's not true, and I would have dared to say that he wasn't bringing anything new at all. This proposal, which we have tabled after a long debate and discussion, actually brings five new words in moderation, and these are the words that we add water resources and soil in particular in Article 7. And that does not mean that it would therefore, if this amendment to the Constitution had been adopted, that nothing would have changed. By pointing out, by stressing water resources and soil, we are actually creating constitutional boundaries for legislators, which then the legislator is at central level, at the Parliament of the Czech Republic, but those who issue decrees at regional level, or municipalities and cities, must manage, and of course - and certainly the honourable colleague Marek Benda knows - this matter is then reflected in the case law and interpretations, whether at the level of the Constitutional Court or other institutions. I don't think any of us here is denying it, and at the end of the day, we've been talking about water protection, we're talking about soil protection. I would also like to stress that, by the way. Our proposal does not only talk about water resources, but it also talks about soil, because for both of us these values have been actually, I would say, in grave danger. And what I'm saying is that when our fathers wrote the Constitution 27-28 years ago, of course, the situation was completely different. So there were only generally those natural resources. But we believe that the situation is serious. So if, for example, this general regulation of the Constitution were, there would be a whole case in another situation around Hodonínsko, Ostrovský Nové Ves and gravel sand mining, as well as around the industrial zone in Hněvotín. I think these are precisely the examples where we see that this declaration of public interest for the protection of water, water resources and soil is indeed a matter of fundamental importance, and in this sense I would also ask for the support of this House press. Unlike the other two proposals, folks do not nationalize, folks do not expropriate, just as we do not introduce new rights to drinking water, etc. These are things that are for discussion, and in the end it has already been heard from the mouth of predecessors - let's continue to debate the proposal for constitutional protection of water, water resources and soil. I welcome the fact that Minister Toman, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, created the work committee, the platform. So I say a little critically that when all three proposals appeared here in the House a year ago, the government got sharper, cut its ears, and Minister Toman created a commission with the government preparing its own, as I take it, it is simply that he prepares a better proposal. It's a year behind us, and the government press is still not here. That's what I think may be bad for the cause. We would not have to interrupt the debate and the merged debate today, and we could be debating the government proposal as well. I hope he'll be on the table very quickly. In the end, as far as I know, next week, a debate on this subject will take place on the Senate floor as well as with representatives of the government. But if I go back to the 526 press, we're actually creating constitutional boundaries here. Constitutional boundaries. There's no way we're strong. And there is no doubt that water and soil are irreplaceable natural resources in this sense, whose care and protection, the protection of these resources deserve the highest constitutional protection, without in any way breaking into the Constitution of the Czech Republic and constitutional order. I think that, in this sense, this proposal deserves the support. And for the KDU-ČSL MEP, I would like to support President Kováčik's proposal. If we don't have the government press here at the moment, let's cut all three points, the merged debate until we have the government press in the House, and then let's go back to the debate and look for some solutions that will really benefit the citizens of the Czech Republic, for the benefit of water, water resources and soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u25	Thank you, too. I'll ask my colleagues in the hall if we can keep it down so we can negotiate points 5, 6 and 7. Minister Toman asked for the floor with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u26	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I just have a few things to do because I'm not a lawyer and I don't feel like being called to do things here. So I'm going to be based on an analysis of the Law Faculty of Charles University, of her analyses, and I'm going to take a few sentences to do that. I have to say, we've been talking about this all day today that these past few years have been marked by significant droughts, and that drought has revealed the need for new legislation aimed at a comprehensive solution to this hydrological phenomenon. That is why, in particular, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, the government amendment that we discussed today, so called. a dry amendment to the Water Act, however, could not accommodate all the related requirements, in particular as regards ensuring the priority importance of water for the supply of the population. [[16.10 hours]] I'm terribly sorry, but just what Mr. Výborný said here, I looked at it, the KDU-ČSL proposal was submitted sometime in June, in the second half of June, I think 19. 6. I've got it written down. I don't want to argue here. I really don't want to argue about who was first or second, but when you look, the Ministry of Agriculture initiated this in 2018 with the fact that already in the spring, that means March or April, the discussion was launched at the first round table, and at this round table they met outside the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment, the Office of the Government, that is, legislative councils, the Ministry of the Interior, representation of the Union of Water Management and the Association of Waterways and Canalizations - there were also experts on constitutional law from Charles University, but also representatives of political parties including KDU. The meeting resulted in the need to analyse the constitutional protection of water in an international context, and therefore, as I said, the Ministry of Agriculture asked experts from the Faculty of Law to prepare a study on the possibilities of further legislative procedure. This study showed that the concept of special protection of water in the context of both Czech and foreign legislation is feasible and more appropriate than possible interference with the existing text of the Constitution or the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Subsequently, three more round tables were convened, where these targets were specified. The main objectives of future legislation have been defined in the draft text of the Constitutional Act. Of course, when drafting the texts from the proposals presented here today by the parliamentary parties, whether it be KDU, whether it be KSČM and the STAN movement, and after final consultation with the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice, the legislative board, the Ministry of the Interior is now the text of the draft constitutional law, or it has been discussed gradually with representatives and representatives of all political parties, we have to complete the discussion with the TOP 09. And the discussions and debates that have been held have shown that we all see the importance of water protection as a unique natural resource. I want to say that these negotiations will continue with an emphasis on the search for shared values and ideas on the subject of constitutional water protection, because we consider this essential, and I would very much like this proposal to be discussed and consensual, if possible, with the entire political spectrum of parliamentary parties. Therefore, I would ask that we request a joint discussion of the text before it is presented. I also spoke with the President of the Permanent Senate Commission, I had the opportunity to inform him of the progress of the preparation of the Constitutional Law, and I must say that the members of this Committee and the position of the members of the Commission on the constitutional protection of water for the supply of the population were quite positive. After the debate with the MPs in the Chamber of Deputies, I promised to be familiar with the outcome and text of the proposal. I just want to say what the main principle of constitutional law is. It stresses the obligation to preserve and protect the environment as a whole and water as a core natural resource. Secondly, it emphasises the sustainable use and protection of water resources in both qualitative and quantitative terms, introducing the obligation of rational economical water consumption. A key point is the high public interest in protecting water resources for the supply of drinking water to the population. It lays down the right of everyone to drinking water at their place of residence under socially economically acceptable conditions. A significant point is also the limitation of the alienity of water works and water infrastructure, i.e. water pipes and sewerage for public use, and an important element is also the link between the constitutional law and the so-called dry amendment to the Water Act in order to introduce an obligation to follow measures declared by public authorities in the event of water shortages. Madam Members, I would like to ask you to support Mr Kováčik's proposal, and I would like to tell you that, in a very short time, we will ask you for a joint meeting of your representatives on this subject to discuss this, and it has been consensual as far as possible. I want to assure you that the three parties who have submitted their proposal so that it will be incorporated to some extent into this joint proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u27	Thank you, Minister. There are three factual points. The first is Mr. Zlesák, Mr. Feri. But if Mr. Kováčik was the first to make a point of fact before, I misunderstood. I thought it was for the debate, but it was probably factual, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u28	My point in fact came from the moment the Minister opened the first word, so there was nothing yet to respond to. Ladies and gentlemen, the moment is now coming, I would like to propose a suspension of paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 until the Government's proposal is tabled and, to be clear, this is not merely an attempt to push the subject somewhere indefinitely, so I would now personally propose that we interrupt the discussion of these points by 15 September of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-009-999.u29	Since this is a procedural proposal, I will immediately vote on it. I've called the Members to the Chamber, we'll wait for a moment. I've registered the logout application, so please register with your I.D. cards. We will vote on Mr Kováčik's procedural proposal to suspend the debate on points 5, 6 and 7 by 15. 9. 2020. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 8, registered by 107 Members, for 104, against 1, abstained 2. The motion was accepted. This merged debate is postponed until 15. 9. 2020. So, at this point, we're going to proceed to a point.
