ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u1	3. Government bill on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 /house printing 1055/ - shortened negotiations Now, we should first assess the provisions of Paragraph 99 (2) of the EC Treaty. 5 whether the conditions for a short hearing remain. I'm asking if anyone is applying for a brief hearing. It's not like that. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government Bill on Compensation Bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, Parliamentary Press 1055, in the accelerated negotiations." I have a request for a check-out. I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. As soon as the number of entries is stable... I'll get back on track. I'll start voting number 59. I'm asking who's in favour of a shortcut. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 59, of the 81 Members present for 81, against no one. The resolution has been approved. So we will continue the short-term negotiations. So now the government's proposal for a compensation bonus law itself in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House printing 1055. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. And Mr Kamal Farhan is already at the rapporteur's desk because he will be the rapporteur for this press. Thank him for that. Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to justify the bill, finally from the Ministry of Finance's workshop, which aims to support self-employed workers in the highest emergency situation, the members of small limited liability companies and those working on the basis of non-employment agreements whose activities have been directly and substantially affected by the bans and restrictions adopted by the State as part of the response to the current epidemiological situation. The Ministry of Finance was already in the spring of 2020 - and you remember those debates - among other things the compensation bonus for those individuals was implemented, which was even designated very effective by the Commission of this Chamber of Deputies, and I believe that in practice verified in the form of quick and effective assistance. The proposed compensatory bonus is issued in the same direction and takes over from its predecessor the legal nature, a number of parameters, as well as the vast majority of the procedural framework. However, in the spring of 2020, the compensatory bonus was more or less taken as an area measure which compensated its beneficiaries for the various effects associated with the current epidemic. In this respect, however, the proposed compensatory bonus is now taken differently. The current bans and restrictions are more pronounced epidemiologically targeted and are not directly applicable to the large number of entities affected in the spring of 2020. Thus, the new compensatory bonus should not be an area aid for business and follow-up activities, but should aim only at a relatively limited range of entities whose activities by the State were immediately prohibited or restricted, or whose activities are directly linked to such limited activities. The condition is that the prohibited or restricted activity is a major source of income for the person concerned. In the case of linked activities, it must be at least 80 per cent of the activity of the individual at the same time. For example, the operator of the closed restaurant and its supplier, for whom these supplies represent 80 per cent of the activity, will be entitled to the compensatory bonus, both of which must be their majority source of income. If an entrepreneur receives other support under Antivirus or COVID, he will not be entitled to a compensatory bonus over the same period. The proposed amount of compensation bonus is CZK 500 for every day of prohibition or limitation. The requirement for speed, easy feasibility of the measure, i.e. minimum administration and real availability for applicants, continues to apply. Once again, a simple request will be used. It will include, in particular, an honest declaration of compliance with the conditions of the compensatory bonus. The request will also be possible to submit again by e-mail. The management of the compensation bonus will again be entrusted to the Financial Administration bodies of the Czech Republic, which have more than proven themselves during the administration of the compensation bonus in the spring of this year. The budgetary effects of the proposed law are expected to total CZK 3.9 billion at the level of public budgets, of which 2.6 billion at the state budget, CZK 1 billion at the municipal budget and CZK 300 million at the regional budget. The compensation bonus will again be paid on the income income tax of natural persons from dependent activities, i.e. the tax, which is shared by the state budget and budgets of municipalities and regions. In the case of the spring 2020 compensatory bonus, compensation was therefore introduced for municipalities to cover that impact. However, the same step is now not proposed. The real effects of the spring bonus were significantly lower than estimated. The municipalities thus received 7.8 billion more on compensation, which with a large margin is sufficient to cover the impact of the proposed law on municipal budgets. Effectiveness is proposed on the day following the date of publication in the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention and please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, and I note that the Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as Parliamentary Press 1055/1. I will ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Kamal Farhan, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I don't think there's a need for my report to be long in some way, because the secretary here has said more or less everything. We know that the aim of this proposed measure is to mitigate the effects of disease proliferation events through this compensatory bonus. The period covered is 5 October to 4 November. The amount defined is CZK 500. I think it's all been said here. I would now like to read the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. "The resolution of the budget committee of the 46th meeting on the Government Bill on Compensation Bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House press 1055, legislative emergency consultation: Following the opening words of Finance Minister . Schillerová, Mr Farhan's intelligence report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 24 hours, on 21 October 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's draft Act on Compensation Bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity relating to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House Press 1055, should give its consent as amended by the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. (b) in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue by deciding whether or not to hold a general debate. Although I have applications for a general debate, we still have to vote on the proposal. Initiating vote number 60. I ask who is in favour of having a general debate on this law. Who's against it? Thank you. No. 60 votes, 82 votes 59 against no one. The decision has been made, so we will have a general and detailed debate. Before the start of the debate, my colleague Kubíček is reporting with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I would like to propose a reduction in the speech for one Member for five minutes in both the general and the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u7	Thank you. We will decide in the vote number 61, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of this restrictive measure. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 61 of the present 82 for 58, against 9. The proposal has been adopted and we will therefore follow it in the debate. In an open general debate, I have the first Mrs Šafránková to sign up, and a colleague Feranec will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present the amendments that I propose for the compensation bonus for the SPD. The main aim of the proposals put forward by us is to remedy certain shortcomings and gaps in the government proposal so that all traders and entrepreneurs affected by the emergency situation and the related measures, which, as a result, have ceased or significantly crippled activities, really have access to this compensation bonus. In the first amendment, I propose that all partners of all limited liability companies who have been prevented or severely restricted by the emergency situation should be entitled to this bonus. The Government's proposal grants this right only to members of a maximum of two members s. r. o., which is completely illogical and discriminatory. The second amendment proposes lowering the limits of the anticipated turnover s. r. o., whose partners will be entitled to the compensation bonus for this year, from the government proposed by 180 000 to 120 000 crowns. It makes absolutely no sense for this limit to be set at the same level for this year, when the business was completely stopped for several months, even in 2019, when this was not the case. And in the third amendment, I propose that this compensatory bonus should not be an effective execution, which the government has forgotten, thereby making this unconditional financial aid impossible for many citizens in fact available in advance. Thank you for your attention and please support these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u9	Thank you, Mrs Šafránková. Mr. Milan Feranec will now appear, and Marek Benda will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the amendment to this bill tabled by my colleague Jan Volný, and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate. As the Minister has already said, this law is actually aimed at the self-employed, virtually. In cases where they have been banned or severely restricted from their activities, the partners of their services, which are linked to this, and the amendment also aims at a third specific group of persons, namely those who use the premises of those entrepreneurs whose activities have been restricted or prohibited. Typically, it's an example of fitness coaches in fitness centers and other similar matters. So that's what the amendment is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u11	I thank Mr Milan Feranc and now Mr Marek Benda, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u12	Mr Vice-President, Madam Vice-President of the Government and Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward and justify the three proposals that our President Stanjura has in his system, which unfortunately cannot be present at the moment, and then, of course, I will sign up to them in a detailed debate. This is House document 6541, an amendment by Mr Stanjura, which aims to provide a compensatory contribution to the regions for the losses that they have on shared taxes. You know that this is a matter that has been discussed since, say, June. The Senate presented this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies, which is still here before the first reading. It would be about making the regions they have, just as we compensated the municipalities, the regions with a loss of income, receive 500 crowns for each resident as a contribution from the Ministry of Finance, respectively. from the state budget. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal lies under House document 6544 concerning the addition of the new part of the fourth, the amendment of the Act on certain adjustments in the field of social security premiums and the contribution to state employment policy and pension insurance in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic in 2020, and it is about making advances, respectively. that payments of the social security levy and the state employment policy are forgiven not as they have been until August, but until December, because it is quite obvious that the impacts on the self-employed will be very significant, and we think that it would be right that the social security contributions, which constitute one of the substantial expenditures against public budgets, should be forgiven until the end of December. And the last document concerns House document 6543, which should amend the Act on the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the outbreak in 2020. And even there, it should be that what has been abandoned until August is forgiven in the months of August, September, October, November, and December. This is what we think is important for this to happen - because it is quite obvious that the effects will be significant, and only today will we know what the government will close - will be compensated for by employers as well. Then I will sign up in a detailed debate on these three proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u13	I thank Mr Marek Benda for his speech and we will now continue the debate. Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to two amendments from the Mayors and Independents. The first has two parts and concerns the number of members who can become a body of a compensatory bonus as a natural person. In the draft law, there are no more than two partners with the fact that it is small s. r. o. but we believe that even three partners can be small limited liability companies and therefore we propose to extend the maximum number of limited liability companies to three, so they could become a compensatory bonus. Furthermore, the proposal also states that the entity can become partners as natural persons who are members of one family, and the following provisions of the bill state who is considered and who is not members of the family. They are only relatives in a number of direct, sibling and spouse or partner under the law governing registered partnerships. The petitioner himself then admits in the explanatory memorandum that this is a narrower definition than that contained in other legislation. The above definition of a member of one family seems very narrow to us and neglects other members of the family, as we generally perceive them. And also, the law maker doesn't justify this concept. In addition, the Civil Code contains in § 700 the definition of the concept of family race and thus we have also inspired ourselves and we propose to amend the proposal so that it is considered as a member of one family, for example. and a cousin or a person who has been snatched up. There may be cases where there are members of the company and relatives who would not fall within the definition set out in the Government Bill. That is one amendment. The second concerns compensation for the regions for the losses of income from the first compensatory bonus, amounting to CZK 500 per capita. We believe that the regions, even in view of the current situation and other revenue outages, deserve such compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u15	I thank Mrs Věra Kovářová and now Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. A colleague of Stanislav Juránek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the pirát certainly support this press. We are pleased that it is quite fast in the House, and we will certainly support it, but we would nevertheless welcome your support in return for our amendments, which want to extend it a little. We're proposing three adjustments. The first adjustment is to remove what we consider illogical, that the self-employed person who is entitled to the compensation bonus will continue to be obliged to make payments. That means the state will give them 15 grand a month in one pocket, and it will take 5 grand a month out of the other pocket. That seems really illogical to us. It is a big difference against the situation in the spring when the CFI did not have to pay contributions, so the real compensation bonus for people who have forbidden or extremely limited activities is actually one third lower than in the spring. So either it's supposed to increase, or, as we suggest, forgive the contributions to the self-employed who are entitled to a compensatory bonus. This is the first amendment we are making. The second proposal is to make an intermediate level there and for businessmen, eseróčka and brokers who have limited activity only from 30 to 80 per cent, which means less than what the government has set as a limit, which wants to limit at least 80 per cent, so for those people with restrictions between 30 and 80 per cent to make a lower compensation bonus of CZK 350 per day as some intermediate level. In the long run, we disagree with the principle of everything, or nothing, that when a person simply has a three-quarter restriction, he is unlucky, and then he suddenly gets a full compensation bonus by the 5 percent extra. We think there should be a more gradual transition, so we propose this lower compensation bonus of CZK 350 per day for those who have only partially limited activity. The last thing we want to deal with is the loss of income from regions and municipalities. We propose 500 crowns per citizen for the regions and 100 crowns per citizen for the municipalities. This amount is higher for the regions, because we also take into account the spring period when the regions received nothing. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u17	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Stanislav Juránek, the last member of the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, KDU-ČSL will certainly support this compensation bonus, this law. It is the right approach and it solves this small group, but an important group for the future of our nation. [[There's a lot of noise and very bad hearing.]] However, I want to draw attention to where these revenues are coming from, and I want to emphasise there that part of this money is taken from the municipalities and part is taken from the regions. Exactly, as the Minister has said, it is an amount that, on the one hand, as far as municipalities are concerned, has already been drawn from the previous compensation, in the way that it is conceivable. As far as the regions are concerned, however, none of these compensations have been made at this time, and the costs of the regions are higher than we have learned from the various materials at this time, that is, we will certainly not be giving ourselves an amendment here, because there have already been two amendments, so there will certainly be support for the regions on our side. But what is still quite important is that we think systemically about how it will be for all the bonuses in the future. For this reason, I am convinced that the Chamber of Deputies should always have sufficient information on these effects. Then, when it counts, the effects are different. In order to have those impacts up and down above all on the municipalities and to try to cope with the regions in some way. Therefore, for KDU-ČSL, I will propose a supplementary resolution in which we will just demand that the Chamber of Deputies be informed of this movement of compensation bonus, as it is at this moment particularly difficult for individual municipalities, because these municipalities are more sensitive in this matter and that compensation should be dealt with at all times. At the moment, as regards this amendment and the municipalities, this has clearly been resolved in advance, so there is no immediate request, and therefore we are not submitting any amendment towards the municipalities either. In any case, however, we need to have a certain automatic set of compensations in the future and, above all, to be informed. That will therefore be the supplementary resolution, the text of which I will read in particular in the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u19	I thank Mr Stanislav Juránek. And now Mr Marian Jurečka joined the debate, then Markéta Adamová Pekarová and then Martin Jiránek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, this House press and the whole theme of the compensation bonus is, I think, what tens of thousands of small businessmen are watching today, representatives of small companies in the Czech Republic, because I assume that, like me, you have indeed over the last week or two weeks hundreds of messages in e-mail, in messengers, and so on, people who describe their stories to us, people who do business in the service sector, whether it is a gastronomic facility, or some types of trades that are very closely linked to these limited fields of business today. People describe their stories to me not only to those who have been doing business for years, creating their reserves, and creating jobs. They lost those reserves during the first wave. For example, I have been told by people in the field of culture, who have never actually taken a full breath during the holidays, because the sector has not started because restrictions have now been applied to cultural events throughout the whole holidays until those tightening up measures during the autumn. And they're not just musicians, actors, artists, but they're people who create backgrounds for them, sound guys, lighting people, the whole service that's connected to it, and today there are 130,000 people working in the field of culture. I'm talking about it because I'm a musician myself, and I have dozens of personal friends among these people who do it for a living, and they're describing a desperate situation for them where it's very difficult for them to support families now. And we all know that, for example, this sector, once the restrictive measures have subsided, will work again. Culture has its place here, it's not a question of how we look at the future of some parts today like air transport or like tourism, which will recover much longer. But then, of course, they're also people who, for example, started their business in good faith this year, they've been preparing for it for a long time, and they're also in a situation today where they don't really know if they can ever return the investment they put into it and how they can survive. I got a call this morning from a colleague who started a barber shop in June, and today, when he heard the suggestions for possible measures, he's on the turnout because he said, "Well, I have two other people I'm responsible for." How am I gonna pay for this, how am I gonna make a living, what about my family, what about my wife and kids? [[11.30 hours]] So I think we should really think about this from a number of parameters. Yes, we have to take the money somewhere. We're taking them from the state budget, from a virtual pile that someone has to fill their income. If we don't fill them with income, we're gonna fill them with debt and somebody's gonna have to pay that debt. It's gonna be us, maybe even our kids. That is, of course, a very strong argument on the scales. Then there's the argument that my colleague Stanislav Juránek said. We will take part of this money from the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions, and even there we should then try to match the money so that cities, municipalities and regions do not reduce investment activity, which is supported mainly by small and medium-sized companies in the regions. It's very important to be able to consider all of this. But at the same time, we also need to be able to see how these measures affect individual types of business, whether they are those areas of business which are directly limited by government regulations, or they are those which are de facto indirectly limited and excluded. It also reduces sales time in restaurants to those sales windows has a significant impact on the revenues and sales of these individual plants. So I allow myself to come up with a series of amendments that parametrically have the ambition to adjust the compensatory bonus, and although it is my concern to do some graduation, so that even the entrepreneurs, whether the self-employed or the small eserogae, or the negotiators, have a chance to get at least part of the compensatory bonus, if not the full amount. That is, we're creating a certain cascade there, so that when these people move within that range of income declines between 30 and 50 per cent so that they are entitled to at least 250 kroner per day, those who are between 50 and 75 per cent to be entitled to 350 kroner, and those who are above that limit, to that 500 kroner. Because the original government proposal, which there was CZK 500 for those who were 80 percent or more, seems very hard to me, because although somebody from the government and the secretary can argue that there are other support programs, such as rent support, or the possibility to use credit and guarantees, let us realize that it only compensates for the outage that the entrepreneur has in terms of costs. He has to pay the rent. The state's contribution to 50 percent is nice, but he has to negotiate the rest with whoever he's renting, and he has to pay the rest himself. But he still misses the sales. Either he doesn't have them at all, or he has to have them out of 20, 30 percent, but he has to bring something home, he has to feed himself, his family, his wife, his children, he has some liabilities, he has a mortgage, and so on. And we just have to look at this area that we should be able to support. I understand that the support that was made at the time of the first wave of the epidemic was quite wide for practically all the fields with the condition of that honest statement, which is backwards controlable, and I'm sure there were entrepreneurs who asked for it and probably weren't completely in the situation of that particular moral or factual claim, that's probably true here, but if I really look at the groups of people who look from the original proposed parameters, I think we need to look for some extension of the parameters so that we can also help them, their families and their functioning in this society. I will sign up in a detailed debate on these specific amendments and I will be happy if you try and support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u21	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka, Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová, Mr Martin Jiránek will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to briefly comment on the amendment that I am proposing, which is already being recorded in the system for this government proposal, but I would like to start from a slightly broader description of the current situation, when we heard from Minister Havlíček here yesterday that, at the moment when the government regulation came, he immediately started to pay or was promised clear specific assistance, and yesterday I argued that this is a clear, obvious, untrue fact, which can be easily verified by, for example, reducing restaurants and other similar gastronomic operations during September and almost a month ago, there was a limitation on opening hours, which should have ended at 22 o'clock, and only today, on 21 October, we are dealing with a compensatory bonus. It should therefore be recalled that this aid is often just that, or rather, the absence of such rapid assistance is often what leads to the great frustration, dissatisfaction and anger of a large part of the people involved, and then let us not be surprised that these people, in a certain despair of their own livelihoods and of what they will pay rents and bills, may approach other measures ordered by the government, more lax than it would be necessary for us to cope with the situation. This is just a point that's quite, I guess, even direct. And I don't want to make excuses for not following any of these regulations right now, but it needs to be realized that the situation of tens of thousands of people is then completely desperate and they really don't see much light at the end of the tunnel and write us really in huge numbers of their particular life cases, stories and point out how hard they have to limit their livelihoods after the ragged spring, difficult summer, in some fields and in that summer. We as the TOP 09 and really all are always asked as a position, how we would do it differently, what we would do if we were in government, so we came up with a proposal for a so-called compensation law. This would be a standard that would give a clear and legal obligation to the government when it limits any sectors of the economy, any business, so at the same time immediately start help with fixed costs. These are the costs that the most businessmen and entrepreneurs weigh, often the amount of which has not changed even in the case of the closure of their establishment. So that's the law we have here to discuss. Unfortunately, the government's looking down on him. They claim that damage cannot be compensated, or often some government officials argue that profits cannot be compensated, it is simply an attempt to give certainty to the really tested sector today, not only to culture, gastronomy, but simply to all services that, by the way, account for 60 percent of our gross domestic product, so it is not negligible and we should treat them much more considerately. This confidence that, when something is limited, it also comes hand in hand with this quick, concrete help would also help to cope with the situation. And that's what I'm stressing here. That's why we're not just talking about economic survival here, but we're talking about dealing with an epidemic. It just goes hand in hand and hand. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would like to justify a quick amendment that you will find in the system and which even beyond the draft, proposes to self-employed persons, who, according to the Government's proposal, are entitled to a compensatory bonus, to forgive health and social insurance contributions, as was the case between March and August 2020. In particular, it would be the remission of contributions from October 2020 until the end of the calendar month following the end of the government restrictions. The compensation bonus itself is not yet addressed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u23	I will interrupt you, Madame, and ask the House for peace. I know I'm taking your time, but please, gentlemen, we agreed that everyone has five minutes to speak in a general and detailed debate. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. I measure it for those who have priority rights. Please let them reason so that they can say in a dignified environment what they wanted to say in the House. If you have another discussion, please in the foyer! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u24	Thank you. I'll be on my way to the end, just as the time has passed. In fact, the present proposal does not take into account the possibility of the remission of contributions at all, and this is an expense that many of those now closed operations and those who are limited to their earnings have a significant burden on them. So let's help them by completely forgiving them and helping them to cope and overcome the really difficult situation that is already the valley of death for many of them. The fewer of them fall into that valley of death, the better for our economy after the worst, terrible situation has come to pass. So it is certainly the interest of TOP 09 to support a whole range of the other amendments, we attach our own others, and I firmly believe that if we approve a compensatory bonus with these modifications, we will help a larger number of people to survive economically and cope with the very difficult situation in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u25	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Mr Jiránek, Mr Jiránek, who has so far been last enrolled in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u26	Thank you. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I'll be less than five minutes. I would just like to ask the Minister, as a member of the Economic Committee in the last few minutes, what we are discussing here, a few questions directly from businessmen who are concerned with possible future restrictions on business, hairdressing, if the Minister directly and clearly here responds to the microphone to these people, that they will be covered by what we are discussing here today, that they will also be covered in the future, if something closes next week, in 14 days, so that these entrepreneurs are clear already in advance, so that they are not stressed. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u27	I thank Mr Jiránek. And now I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. Do I ask the final words? Madam Vice Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will try to sum up very briefly in response to some of the speeches that have been made here. First of all, the MP, the last one, my name came up, I'm sorry. Of course, when you look into that law, yesterday I explained it to the Committee on Budgets, he is designed to fall on everyone, this time it is not as flat as it was in the spring, but that it affects those self-employed people, or the associates of small eseróceks or contractors, who depend on closed operations, which are prevented by government decision or significantly reduced business and it is their prevailing source of income. It's written on purpose, because at the time we wrote it, of course, we didn't know if any other measures would follow. So I'm saying it here on the microphone. It's clearly stated in the law. In fact, the decisive period is the emergency, that's the maximum, but it's taken from that particular limitation, because we've cut back on other times, I don't know, fitness center owners and maybe we've closed down the pubs. This Chamber of Deputies may decide to extend the emergency situation, so, of course, this would extend as well if the restrictions were to last. And we also have the last insurance policy, which was in the last compensation bonus, even though it was not used because it was flat, that it could be extended once after the emergency situation was over by the government's regulation, so that it would not have to go back to the House for several times. Is that understandable? Of course, it must be the dominant activity of his income. Let me give you an example. When a high school teacher, yesterday I said it on a budget committee, he has somewhere, in the country it often is a gym, but he has income prevailing from dependent activity, so he doesn't reach it. But if it's his prevailing income, he'll reach it. And now, of course, there are those other embezzlements or companions of little eseróček who are dependent on the closed restaurant. And if at least 80 percent of them depend on her, because I'm already collecting those stories in e-mails and colleagues too, then they can ask for the 500, too. That's the way it is in the law. I just wanted to explain. Then the numbers of associates. We discussed it. I just want to say, I didn't say it in the opening word that I've called all the representatives of the unions and chambers of business again. I asked them again for comments, reactions. The more associates there are, the more distortion we create. Every partner gets it. The originally small eseróčka after the debate, which was also going on here, was supposed to be the kind of disguise of the self-righteous, they were supposed to be helped because they couldn't do anything. They didn't have employees, they didn't have Antivirus, they didn't have anything special. Then after the debates, I gave in to the fact that we have the number we have there, but every other number increases the distortion and misses a little bit of the effect that we've been tracking. I will support - now I do not know who is the amendment - the change in turnover from 180,000 to 120. Makes sense. I will support this actively when we vote on the amendments. Then somebody said - if it was Mr. Benda, now I can't realize - of course there is a expulsion. It is in § 15 para. 4. Absolutely. Take a look. [[The response of the appointed one.]] Oh, it wasn't you, so I'm sorry. Someone said it here. I'm very sorry, I'm not going to name it. That's not missing. That's what we did on purpose at the first debate, the first compensation bonus. Someone said it, so I'm sorry. I said, it's there. Sorry about social and health. I could say, alibisally, it's not in my gesture. I won't say it. I don't support it. I do not actively support this. We're talking about this for a simple reason, for very clear reasons. We did it in the first wave because we shut down the economy. At the time, we simply helped by losing social, health and health services to all of them. Then we actually forgave Antivirus C to 50 employees. It's a big hit on the social system, already weak enough. It's a big hit on the health system that we've been helping by raising significantly the payment for state insured people. Only in the budget 2021, it's some 56 billion, 54, just the amount raised. Then we're not gonna make a hole on the other side. I think we need health care in financial condition. There's no way to do it in a partial way. What we can't do is forgive the welfare and health of someone. We'd have to all of us. And for these reasons, I don't actively support this as Secretary of Finance when the debates are going on. There were still a few contributions, so I'd like to say compensation. I am glad that the compensation of municipalities has not been addressed. I'm grateful to you that you've acknowledged the arguments of a considerable overpayment if I used that expression, the compensation bonus for the municipalities. The county compensation was being dealt with, so I'll take a few words. I don't think anybody's gonna question this place, so I'm not gonna get into this anymore. We actually sent the municipalities, including Prague, which has a special status, that the municipality is also a region, 13.4 billion, with estimated impact on the municipalities about 5.5. It's still being specified. All in all, the drop is a little bit bigger. So we've really compensated it more than twice as much. And I would like to say that, in addition to this compensatory bonus, an additional 30 billion were released in the 2020 budget, especially the third amendment to the Community Budget Act. 3.1 for school and kindergarten repairs to municipalities beyond the compensatory bonus. I stress that 960 million travels to repairs of buildings or apartments in the property of municipalities. By 2 billion, the government strengthened the programme to finance prepared water management projects implemented through the SFŽP. Another 2.6 billion government supported water management projects financed by the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. Billions will pass - and they have already flowed - into the territory to promote spa, revitalization of the territory, second and third class roads and so on. In the field of social services, health services went billions. If I speak for the Ministry of Finance department, and you know that, I have said this here several times before, we are releasing about 640 projects for reconstruction and modernisation of primary schools and kindergarten schools and rental housing within the scope of municipalities by the end of the year. But we haven't forgotten the transfer of authority either. Contribution to the administration's performance, which is regularly audited. In 2019 it was even 10 %, for 2020 it is 5 %. Of course, we are also counting on 5% in 2021, 2022. And for the sake of comparison, I would like to say that at a time - I know that many of you, including me, have not been there - but at the time of the economic crisis for 2009, this contribution has been reduced by 18 percent, just for your information, to the performance of the public administration in the municipalities and the capital of Prague. [[11.50 hours]] I've told you a few times what everything's been done to the county. The amount was around 24, 20, about 23, 24 billion, whether it were the roads of the second and third classes, whether it were different rewards, whether it was for social projects, it was from the European Union and so on. So I think we definitely tried. She went to the counties exactly 21.6. Reward funds for paramedics 1.2, support for social services 5.2, road of second and third classes for next year 6 billion, protective equipment 1.8, extraordinary remuneration for workers of regional hospitals in bed care 5 billion, soft social projects 2.4 billion. So, I mean, let's really breathe together, as I sometimes hear it from different representatives of ammunition, and I appreciate the sound of that call for joint public budget breathing. So please breathe not only in good times, but also in bad times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u29	Thank you, Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová, and I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. In that case, we will start the debate in detail. First is Mrs Šafránková, Milan Feranec will prepare. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would hereby apply to my amendments, which are conducted in the system under the number of the Houses of Documents 6452, 6454 and 6455. And I ask you once more to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr. Milan Feranec, Marek Benda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby refer to the amendment by my colleague Jan Volný, House document 6496. In my reasoning, I refer to the written proposal and what I have said in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u33	Thank you. Now the speech in the detailed debate by Mr Marek Benda will be prepared by Věra Kovářová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u34	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the three House documents tabled by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in the system, namely 6541, 6544 and 6543, with my apologies when I presented it to you in the general debate, so I wrongly said the words - August is replaced by the words August, September, October, November, December - in the printed text is rightly August, October, November and December, it cannot be there anymore because it has passed and it would have been too difficult, so only to be specified. But I'm signing up for these three documents, 6541, 6544 and 6543. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u35	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u36	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment under House document 6472 concerning an increase in the number of members who may be subject to a compensatory bonus from two to three. And the second part - members of one family are expanding in the way that they can also be in the so-called. family race cousin or person svagřené. And the second amendment is brought under House document 6473 and concerns the contribution for the regions of CZK 500 per capita for the outages as a result of the introduction of a compensatory bonus. And here I would just like to respond briefly to the Minister that municipalities and regions breathe in the state budget, because they bear the revenue cuts that carry the same way as the state. But a compensation bonus, that's something extra. Otherwise, municipalities and regions breathe with the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Stanislav Juránek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will apply to three of my amendments. I have justified all of them in the general debate, as well as in writing. These are House documents 6512, that is compensation for the loss of income of the regions and municipalities, 6514, that is forgiveness of contributions, and 6475, that is the lower compensation bonus for entrepreneurs affected by a smaller reduction in activity between 30 and 80 percent. I'll make a brief statement on the charges. I really don't understand the Minister's reasoning. I understand why he doesn't want to make a large-scale remission for all tradesmen, because some of them aren't really affected. However, at least those who have been banned by the government should be forgiven for their contributions. That is why we have prepared this proposal, which says: those tradesmen who are entitled to a compensatory bonus - i.e. The State recognises that they are affected by the crisis and have a significantly limited business activity because of government regulations or because they are linked to those areas that are forbidden by the Government's decision, so at least don't have to pay your contributions. 'Cause we're gonna send 15 grand to people here, and we're gonna take 5 grand back from them right away. That's completely absurd! And I haven't heard a valid argument yet. I understand that the Minister cannot do this in the context of some sort of general apology, but, of course, it can be adjusted by legislative means. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u39	Thank you, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Stanislav Juránek, will prepare Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u40	Thank you. I am applying to the additional resolution 6557, which I will now read with permission: Chamber of Deputies I. through the Government, the Ministry of Finance is required to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the impact of the compensation bonus under the proposed law in the budgets of municipalities and regions, always within 30 days of the deadline for submitting a compensation bonus pursuant to § 12 para. the proposed law for the relevant bonus period; II. asks the Government to ensure that the effects of the compensatory bonus under Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on the compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2, as amended, and the compensation bonus in accordance with the proposed law exceeded the contributions paid to municipalities under Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on the compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the presence of SARS-CoV-2, as amended, submitted to the House a proposal to compensate for the impact of compensatory bonuses on municipalities' budgets by providing an additional non-refundable and non-purpose contribution to municipalities from the state budget within 60 days after the deadline for submitting a request for compensation bonus pursuant to § 12 para. 3 of the proposed law. The reason - and here I will actually stop at the fact that there is double funding going into the municipalities. It does not matter with which municipalities and regions breathe together with the state budget, it is due to the budgetary determination of taxes. And from that, the municipalities and regions always get their percentage, i.e. They always get a piece. When less money is collected, even the regions and municipalities get less money when more money is collected, the regions and municipalities get more money. [[to put it a little less]] The second thing is that when the budget reaches for the money that the municipalities have already received and have been allocated to them, then the municipalities and regions also need a compensatory bonus. And this is very important that we allow the balance here and the subsidiarity to give each level what it has, so then it makes sense to give the municipalities and the regions a compensatory bonus. So I will say in this reasoning that, in relation to those crisis measures, in relation to the presence of SARS-CoV-2, and as amended, sufficient money has been provided to the municipalities, and at this point, the matter is much higher than what is now to be put into this. But, on the other hand, it is in this matter that we should always know clearly how much these municipalities and regions have taken and how this has been compensated. This is what I wanted to put forward with this proposal for an additional resolution. [[12.00 hours]] I dare ask for your support. And it's more or less a system thing. Unlike things that are just parametric changes or adding some other group, this is a matter that should be de facto accompanied by every law that somehow affects the budgets of cities and municipalities on the one hand, the regions on the other hand, from the amount that is not linked to tax revenues. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u41	I thank Mr Stanislav Juránek. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Just a little bit more here, if I'm going to justify it, virtually. applying to individual amendments, so I would like to say that when the Minister here said that forgiveness is a problem, one of my amendments is not about forgiveness of social and health, but about extension, virtually. allow social and health care to be paid by the CFI only after 31 March next year. It gives me logic to give them time from the beginning of October. The moment they close their tax returns at the end of March for this year, they will then take away social and health. So the state won't lose the money, it'll just put it away in time. That seems to me to be the minimum thing the state should do at this point. As far as the amendments are concerned, I therefore refer here to Amendment 6499, which is precisely the delay of social and health advances to the end of March next year. I also apply to the 6500 proposal, which is a change in the parameter so that even those who have lost not 80 but 50 percent of their income are entitled to a certain degree of compensation under the compensation bonus. Then I apply to Amendment 6502, which is an extension of the right to multiple entrepreneurs who are affected and affected by covid and anticovid measures also qualify for at least a partial bonus. I also apply to Amendment 6503, which is a proposal that further elaborates. I also refer to proposals under 6554, 6555 and 6556, which are proposals that govern certain provisions in terms of, say, extending parameters and softening hardness for those applicants so that applicants have a better chance of achieving support. So I am reporting to these amendments, a total of seven, in this detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u43	Thank you, and for the detailed debate, there is another President Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u44	Thank you for the floor. I also refer to an amendment which I have not been able to justify completely in the previous debate, so I will come to that further, but it is an amendment that is under the number 6539 in the system, and I am now applying to it. In addition to the draft, which is in the compensation bonus, I propose that the self-employed who, according to the proposal, are entitled to the compensation bonus, to forgive the health and social insurance contributions, as was the case between March and August 2020. In particular, from October 2020 to the end of the calendar month following the end of government restrictions. Entrepreneurs who are limited by government measures and to which the compensatory bonus applies are also employers. However, the Government's bill does not count on compensation to make it easier for employers to pay insurance premiums which they are obliged to pay for their employees. In addition to the government's draft, I also propose to encourage employers to waive social security premiums and the contribution to the national employment policy paid by the employer for employees in employment. I propose again to forgive the insurance policy from the beginning of October 2020 until the end of the calendar month following the end of government restrictions. The entitlement to waiver is limited by the conditions for entitlement to a compensatory bonus, as proposed by the government. So this is the full text of the amendment that this amendment is dealing with, and I am asking you to support it to help all those affected entrepreneurs and businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-004-003.u45	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am done with the debate. There is no interest in the final words, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal and interrupting this point so that we can prepare for the third reading. Now we're going to look at point number
