ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-005-094.u1	94. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 961/ - first reading Let's keep going. We have ended up voting on the return of the proposal. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First we decide on the commandment - excuse me? [[Secretary Maláčová speaks from the rapporteur's desk.]] Shortening the time limit shall be put to the vote at the end of the vote. I've got it marked. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for actively trying to warn me, but I have everything under control. [[Glee in the hall.]] So, as I was saying, we will now consider the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I can't see. So we will proceed to the vote, and I will therefore ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 179 registered by 92 Members, for 85, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see anyone. So now it's going to be a coveted vote that the Secretary of State is waiting for. This means that here we have a proposal from the President of the ČSSD member club Jan Chvojka to reduce the deadline for discussion in committee to 30 days. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 180 registered by 92 Members, for 72, against 2. The proposal has been accepted and the deadline will be 30 days. I'm ending the first reading of this bill. It's four minutes, so I'd open another point because it's not a minute or two. We have a point here.
