ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u1	189. Proposal for the election of members of the Czech Television Council Mr. President of the Election Commission Martin Kolovratník has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u2	The data and procedure are exactly the same in Czech Television, so I will not repeat them again. Here ends the membership of the Board of six members of the Board again on 26 March. The final councilmen are Jan Bednář, Luboš Beniak, Vratislav Dostál, Michael Hauser, Ivana Levá and Vlastimil Venclík. In this case, too, the electoral committee announced a 14-day deadline until 20 January and a total of 86 nominations were delivered to it from eligible organisations and associations for these six seats. The election committee carried out the narrowing again to three times, i.e. to 18 candidates, and this narrowing was forwarded to the electoral committee which adopted the proposal in its resolution No 152. I'll quickly read the 18 nominees of the electoral committee for the screen recording. Roman Bradáč, Ivan Douda, Marek Hladký, Zdeněk Holý, Eva Hubková, Petr Jedinák, Michal Klíma, Pavel Kysilka, Hana Lipovská, Pavel Matocha, Vladimír Pikora, Martin Schmarcz, Jiří Schwarz, Stanislav Staněk, Jiří Šlégr, Gabriel Švejda, Lubomír Veselý and Jiří Závozda. Even in this case, the Election Committee and the Commission propose to make a choice as a secret choice, and even in this case, the resolution states that, in the event of the election of a six-year term, it will start at the earliest on 27 March. I now ask once again for the opening of the debate and after the debate on the vote on the proposal for a secret election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u3	Yes, thank you. I'm opening the debate. Mr Valenta, Mr Výborný, is signed here, but President Stanjura and Minister Zaorálek are registered with priority rights, in that order. So Prime Minister Zbyněk Stanjura has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues, Colleagues, I am also a member of the Election Committee in addition to the fact that I am the President of the Parliamentary Club. At this point - I look him in the eye - I would like to call on the President of the Election Committee to resign his post. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I'll explain in a minute. If he does not do so, I am telling him that I will use my rights, and at this point I have secured enough signatures from the members of the electoral committee to address the appeal of the committee chair directly on the electoral committee. I think it would be better for everyone if Mr Berkovec resigned today so that we do not have to go back to that at least twice - once on the electoral committee and then at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. First, I want to say that this is the second serious offence that the President of the Election Committee has made. For the first time - we discussed this repeatedly at the Gremie of the Chamber of Deputies, without publicity - but then the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček called a closed meeting of Members for reports by Czech Television. That was accepted. Many of us criticized it, so they did not volunteer to participate. However, President Berkovec has arranged for a video transfer and leak of information from the whole... So the idea by the President of the Chamber of Deputies that this is to be closed has been completely thrown away by the President of the Election Committee. At the time, I asked the chairman of the relevant parliamentary club to deal with this. It's all coming together. However, the Czech Television Act clearly sets out the prerequisites for the performance of the function of a member of the Czech Television Council and, at the same time, clearly determines the competence of the Czech Television Council. I have neither read that the prerequisite for this function is that it will support the movement YES and Andrea Babiš, or vice versa that it is a stop sign for the performance of this function if someone criticizes the movement YES, or directly, as President Berkovec writes, AB. I figured it was Andrej Babiš. Perhaps President Berkovec, the current chairman, will tell me that AB is not Andrej Babiš, but someone else. I don't quite believe it. Those methods, Mr Berkovč, through the Vice-President, are totally unacceptable. It seemed to me as a report from the president of the KSČ street organization, where he evaluated and gave up his neighbors, who was dating, who was living with, who was with whom, who was a friend, what his friend said, that he didn't distance himself enough from what a friend said. I don't know how you could afford anything like that. So I'm asking you, and many colleagues, I'm only partially, many colleagues have honestly attended this Martyrium public hearing under the law for 90 candidates. That's not where you asked. Why didn't you ask them publicly if they had anything against ANO and Andrej Babiš? That's where you played super-correct committee chairman - yes, you have the floor. Thank you, Doctor. No, Doctor. Glad you could make it. Goodbye. - to scandalously search for a compo for individual candidates. I would still like to publicly invite those who have been identified as suitable candidates in Mr Berkovec's e-mail to explain publicly how we should explain the sentence for example for one candidate: a great assumption of excellent cooperation. What's this excellent cooperation supposed to be? When the limits of the council of individual councillors are set out in the law. I'm not gonna elaborate on this anymore. Mr. Ambassador, resign your post today and now and quickly! That place belongs to the YES movement. We fully respect that. There are enough members in the electoral committee who are able to obtain support from the opposition, both in the electoral committee and in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. If you don't know what to do, I'll whisper to you which of your party colleagues would do the job much better. Hello there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u5	Thank you. Now we will proceed in the following way. With a factual remark, Mr Plzák is registered and the priority rights look like this, so that you all know what the order will be: Minister Zaorálek, Mr Výborný, who has the right of priority, because he is speaking with the opinion of the MP, President Pekarová Adamová, President Ivan Bartoš, President Vít Rakušan. Those are priority rights. Mr Plzák has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to my previous speaker, who opened the debate. Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, you ask how Mr Berkovec, a fellow Member of Parliament, could afford. But the e-mail wasn't meant for you. That was meant for me. And he can afford it for me because I requested because I wasn't at the barbecue and I didn't know the exact things about these people, I wanted to know more about these people because I don't know them. But I was also interested in their partiality towards our movement, because we want impartial people, whether they are negative or positive. Is that clear? Thank you for the applause.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u7	The President Stanjura will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u8	Well, who doesn't understand, doesn't understand. Of course, I didn't criticize the fact that you e-mailed each other. I criticized the content. If you don't mind the stalking, squealing methods, it's a picture of you. I don't mind! I'm the one criticizing it. I wasn't breaking into your... But if it really is important for you personally, Mr President, it is important that there is no one on the board who would dare to have a critical view of the Yes movement or Andrej Babiš movement, you have completely misunderstood the position of the Czech Television Council. I feel sorry for you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u9	Mr Plzák's point of fact, then, with a factual remark, President Bartošek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u10	Mr colleague, once again through the President. It was a private e-mail. I don't know what you're writing with. Nobody's digging into your business. God forbid your e-mails get out in public. But it was a private e-mail. And I write down what I want and what I want. It's between us. I hope you respect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u11	President Bartošek with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Plzák, through Mr President, this is a fundamental misunderstanding of what is going on here, because, as far as advice is concerned, we have to look for professionals who are able to ensure the independence of public media who understand the economy, journalism and are experts. The relationship to any political party is completely beyond the reach, it is manipulative and it reeks of what we had here before 1989. [[Weak laugh.]] I hear laughter. It is at the same level as if, for example, you were looking for other laws to benefit Agrofert or some company or sector within the holding. It is even worse here that we are talking about freedom of the media, one of the fundamental pillars of democracy. And if it is absolutely crucial to you and important information about the relationship that a person has with the YES movement and whether he is a sympathizer of the Prime Minister or any other political person, and you are referring to your Prime Minister, that is a clear politicalization of these councils, it is completely beyond the threshold. And if you're using private e-mail, at this point, it's completely out of order. Because what you're aiming at is setting up people who will fulfill the political task of the YES movement. I'm sorry your behavior is Communist behavior before 1989!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u13	Thank you. With another factual point, Mr Václav Klaus. The following is the factual comment made by President Vojtěch Filip and then by Mr Plzák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u14	Ladies and gentlemen. I was hoping we could make a choice and take care of our grandparents and others in the situation that is. Here I heard some sanctimonious attacks, so don't be angry, colleague Stanjur, through you, I used to be a member of the ODS Club and at every meeting, before each election was, "Call this one, that's our guy." Or even -- she even texted me. [[Raging applause and loud screams from the YES benches.]] Or, "It doesn't matter today, we don't have anyone there today, vote whatever you want." [[Applause, screams from the YES benches.]] So leave these debates, let's vote, and let's go home!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u15	Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether I read well or not. The Constitution of the Czech Republic in Article 5 states that the Czech political system is based on the free establishment and competition of political parties. What do you have against these political parties? I really don't get it. Where were we? What kind of political system do you want? If anybody wants a kingdom, they can enforce it within the Constitution of the Czech Republic. If anyone wants a kind of civil society without political parties, they can cancel Article 5 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. What kind of talk is that? It's total demagogy! Why political parties should not have the right to determine who they will, if citizens comply with them, it is their business. And those political parties, the political movements are part of our political regime, and that's how it's based. If you don't honor the Constitution, it's your problem, not mine!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u17	Mr. Pilsner. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u18	For the last time today, I promise. But I had to respond to my colleague Bartošek. Mr President, you are predicting how I will vote. How do you know how I'm gonna vote? How can you say I'm being sidetracked? Maybe I'll be impartial. So please don't say that. Don't blame us for any election in favor of someone. I will make my choice according to my conviction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u19	President Stanjura, after whom President Kalousek - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u20	Well, I guess when a lie sounds like a microphone, you have to react. Mr. Václav Klaus Jr. is not here right now. So what he said isn't true. It's true - [[Inconvenient speeches by Members YES.]] They laugh at members of the YES who do not mind, for example, this text: "Do not vote for the candidate because he is influenced by a young lady with whom a member of our government has a relationship. " That's okay with you! That seems normal to you! And you're laughing at it like children. Serves you right. This is a picture of your values and your approach. I didn't write the e-mail. It was written by the chairman of the electoral committee. He's not even shy. He's totally fine. These are the communist methods. If he wrote: this candidate is not a professional, he does not have enough education, he does not have enough experience - that is what every club does according to me. That's normal. But these personal disgusting things, these... [[A note from the diaper.]] It doesn't matter that it was a private e-mail. Someone from the YES movement, somebody from the YES movement, somebody from the recipients of the e-mail leaked it. Don't be paranoid. They weren't hackers. That was one of the recipients of the e-mail that leaked it. You can look for a culprit among yourselves. We're not looking for him. We're just reacting to what was. To get back to what I said. Mr Klaus is simply wrong. Yes, there is a recommendation, as with other laws where our rapporteurs tell us: we recommend not to support, support this amendment. We never said he was our guy. I have repeatedly negotiated on the Czech Television Council with President Faltýnek, you can ask him. I've been telling him who I think satisfies this. I didn't say he was our guy about any of them. I've never considered whether this person criticizes the Prime Minister or criticizes him. I don't even know why I would illustrate this issue. That's the problem. Then don't hide it for anything else. I wasn't talking about how to vote. I know elections are classified. I have called on the President of the Election Committee to resign! And I can do that if he writes such disgusting things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u21	Thank you. President Kalousek, then President Michálek - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u22	Thank you. Vice-President Filip here repeated to us the notoriety that we have a free competition of political parties in the Constitution. Of course, those political parties that succeeded in the House, their MPs here will vote for members of the Czech Television Council. But we also have the Czech Television Act, which clearly states that a member of the Czech Television Council, through the President, Mr Berkovč, a member of the Czech Television Council, must not work in favour of political parties or movements in the performance of its duties on the Council. That's what the law says. The chairman of the electoral committee, who says "no to this one, will not work for YES, and this one will, because he will work for YES," he directly embezzles his mission in writing, embezzles the Czech Television Act, and in my opinion he can do nothing but resign because he simply acted contrary to the Czech Television Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u23	Thank you. President Michálek, so far the final point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u24	Thank you for the floor. I think there are two things that need to be really clearly separated in that argument. First of all, we are clearly responsible for how we place people in office. There was a pensioner from Brno behind me, and he told me that he was also stealing a politician who was setting up people who were stealing, and if he was doing a bad job and people who knew he had no qualifications, competence, expertise, credibility, then, of course, the person who put him there was responsible for that. That means, it's just that the political party is making an overview, like you, ODS, us, or anyone else, of course, that's perfectly fine. I think it is also okay that there is the history of the person he has in order to assess whether there will be a guarantee of political neutrality, as it would suit the Council of Czech Television. What is not right, however, is if it is assessed whether this person will promote the interests of a particular political party, namely in this case the interests of YES. The Czech Television Council is not intended by law to promote the interests of YES. You have a quote here - given the economic interests and the circle of close friends and collaborators of this candidate, it can be ruled out that he could represent the interests of the YES. And following this, he is ranked among the unproven candidates for the Czech Television Council. So let's ask why this representation of the interests of the YES is an assessment criterion whereby the ANO Members are not to vote for those people. I'd like to explain what the interests are, yes, if it's really in that, let's say, idea plane, because the way it's written, it sounds like it's basically expected that this guy is going to be some political exponent of the political party and he's going to have a connection to it. Or I would suggest that you do it in some other way so that it doesn't give you the impression that you're gradually occupying individual functions in the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u25	Mr Hájek, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u26	Mr President, colleagues, I will follow up on Mr Michálek. I didn't get the e-mail, so I don't know what was really in the e-mail, but I would follow up on your words from that point of view, that if I remember when the pirát took over Prague and placed candidates or were nominees for supervisory councils, one of the criteria was knowledge of the Pirates program, I guess it was 20 percent. So can you please explain to me why this criterion was given in the Prague Supervisory Boards, so that the person who managed, for example, the Prague City Transport Company should know the Pirates program of 20 percent? I'm happy to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u27	President Michálek will respond with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u28	I would like to explain this to you very much, and I think that you should almost know that when you decide here the composition of the Czech Television Council, which according to the law is a public medium and is to be independent, its members are to be independent and are expressly required by law not to operate in favour of political parties. As far as board occupation, supervisory councils are concerned, this is part of the implementation of the policy. For example, you have a transport business and a transport business has to decide if it wants to build new lines, a new subway and so on, and logically it has to represent the political party's program, because if we in the electoral program promise to build subway D, which we did, those people are there and they're sitting there to build subway D. It wouldn't really make any sense for a guy who doesn't want to build subway D. And if you don't see the difference between the stock companies that are set up by the authorities to carry out the tasks to be carried out under the electoral programme and the public media, where the political parties where it is in the law are not to be represented, there is this significant difference, then I'm afraid that no further explanation I have will bring to your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u29	The following are the factual remarks made by Mr Hájek, President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u30	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I am a person who has worked in mining all his life, and I do not know the case that the supervisory board is a criterion that the knowledge of 20 percent of the political program decides. That means either I understand the mining and I'm going to the Supervisory Board, or I don't understand and I'm not going. So I'm sorry, I don't know. I'll study it, who your representatives or sympathizers or members of the pirate council are in what parties. That means me personally, if I didn't understand traffic issues and knew 200 percent of the pirate party program, I wouldn't be applying, because I would feel like - I don't want to use that expression - as inexperienced. It means just, don't be mad at me, it really lacks logic, and if you promote this, I think you're gonna end up in the wrong place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u31	President Bartošek with a point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. By your means, I would like to ask the Chairman of the ANO Group of Deputies. Mr Faltýnek. If I noticed it well yesterday, you distanced yourself from this behavior, didn't you? - which I appreciate. And given what arguments have been made here, including regarding laws and provisions, and what media councils and their impartiality are about, whether you recommend to your Members to replace the chairman of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u33	Mr. Michálek's point of fact, then President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u34	Thank you for the floor. I think it's pretty obvious that this is a derail, or distraction from what we're discussing right now. There are signs on the right and left that clearly say that we are discussing the election of members of the Czech Television Council. I don't think it's meant to be here to feel bad about all the things in the last twenty, thirty, in some case 80 years. So let's not distract, let's pay attention to the Czech Television Council. And, Mr Hájek, I assure you, through Mr President, that professional competence in all the places where we are conducting selection procedures is, unlike other political parties, the most important criterion. As it was at your firm, I don't know, I don't think it was even owned by the state or owned by someone else entirely. [[unintelligible]] If so, tell us who owned this place and who picked out the guys to run the company. We'd be happy to meet that. But I think that this person's personnel policy should not be an inspiration for the Czech Republic or for our self-government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u35	President Faltýnek, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u36	Have a nice noon. Too bad they weren't all clapping. Well, I applauded, Mr. Michálek. But there wasn't much clapping on the right. I am, of course, very happy to come forward, but I will ask you for some leniency that I would like to be the last to speak on this issue in this debate. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u37	Thank you. The priority right of Minister Zaorálek is now followed, and Mr Výborný will be prepared with priority right. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u38	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I have been saving some restraint in the case of the Czech Television's choice of advice, because I believe that the executive should not interfere in any way with the choice of media advice, so I explain that I have held back. However, I have now understood that it is good to say something, because this debate concerns a subject which is also quite significant publicly, and I think I can afford to comment on that, even as a representative of the executive. Look, I'm well aware that if we're going behind that platoon where we secretly vote for representatives of all kinds of advice, it's hard to resist that, as far as we know, we're interested in those people's opinions, and we're certainly also affected by what we know about them, what their opinions are, how they show themselves politically. That's certainly true, I'd be naive to deny or claim that we're able to get rid of it. However, in the case of the election of members of the Czech Television Council, I consider it necessary to say this here as a fundamental one. There is a government's programming statement, and in that government's programming statement, I'm going to say one sentence - that we will consistently support the independence of the public media. That's actually what we said in front of people, publicly, and I'd like to - I don't think any of us can question that. That's what we signed, we confirmed, and that's what we tell people. Between what we are saying here, we are arguing, and what we, above all, have said publicly as coalition MPs, must not be a contradiction. And we have to put it that way, otherwise we're not credible. So even though I'm saying, even though I admit that our decisions are governed by consideration of who the person is, what we know about him, this must be crucial. And what advice do we need on Czech Television? I'm gonna say this in a normal way. We need a good internal debate, a debate by competent people who know what they are talking about. Because if we're taking the government's programming statement seriously, we're trying to make the whole TV work and the board help it. Why do we need this? Why do we need public television? Well, now, look what's going on around the Covid epidemic, what's the role of public television. It becomes a fundamental source of information for how institutions and people behave. Now, in these moments, you can see the role of public television. This is also one of the strong reasons why we need it as a strong one, which works and where competent people sit on the council, who speak reasonably of it. [[12.40 hours]] And I'm going to add one more reason that I'm repeating everywhere, and now I'm going to have to do it again here today. Everyone today - this year is talking about the danger of slowing down the economy. You know, there's a lot of capital going into this country, that's Walt Disney and Netflix and more. Czech television is one of the strongest, most important co-pilots, the creators of the series, it is a very important area of the Czech economy. The moment she's just weakened, she's not gonna work, she's not gonna be strong, so it's gonna be a loss for us and for us in this direction. I'd like to appeal to say that this is our mutual interest. Working Czech Television, a public institution whose independence we have committed ourselves to, and we should choose people accordingly. Let the people who are competent understand it and are able to build the power of the television and be credable to be more creditable than before. I would ask you to consider this to be the key criteria for making decisions. And regardless of the fact that - I repeat, I am not naive, I know that we are at the same time in the space where the fight of the political parties is taking place, it cannot be completely removed, it cannot be removed from when we decide who we are voting for. And I'm begging you, this thing I said should connect us. I say this for the government, and I think I can afford to say that as a representative of executives, what we should follow when we vote for board members. Thank you for hearing that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u39	Thank you. Mr Výborný, who performs with priority rights for the KDU-ČSL Club, and then President Pekarová Adamová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I stand here with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL. To begin with, I have a few comments on what was said here today. When Vice-President Filip here mentioned the Constitution, I think we all suspect that this is an entirely inappropriate analogy, because we are not really in a position to apply Article 5 of the Constitution. But we vote for the Czech Television Council. And some people paraphrased it here and I quote exactly: Act on Czech Television § 5 para. 2 makes it clear that a member of the Council may not speak on the board in the interests of political parties, political movements and so on. So that is what is the clear complaint against President Berkovc. And I have to say, when I read it, I really didn't believe my eyes. These are the comrades' practices of the StB of the '70s. Go to the security archives, it's the same in pale blue. For me, it is absolutely - I wrote it last night - it is absolutely unimaginable for me that such an MEP should lead an electoral committee - that is, a media committee. I join, on behalf of KDU-ČSL, in what has been said here by President Stanjura. I call on President Berkovec to resign himself and to fulfil, by the way, the will of a part of the members of the ANO movement, his own club, who said the same thing that they would welcome. Since it is not possible that a committee which is the guarantor of media legislation, which is the guarantor of supervision within the public media, is a person for whom the criterion is whether the candidate is sufficiently loyal to the ANO movement, whether he becomes a vassal or not becomes a vassal. And I have to say, some of the things that are mentioned in that pamphlet are beyond the mere human decency. If the 76-year-old rector of the film academy says that at his age he can't be expected to be willing to risk conflict with his nearest working and personal surroundings that are hostile to YES, then ladies and gentlemen, where are we? If comrade Berkovec is attacking, personally assaulting, health, health, one of the candidates who is directly affected by his family members, then what should we think about it? That really is already beneath human dignity. I would very much like President Berkovec to respond clearly to these matters, so that the ANO movement also clearly stands up to this. This is unacceptable. And as for the material itself. Of course, the KDU-ČSL MP was also preparing for the election of the Czech Television Council, and we also had researches for individual candidates. But that criterion is only what the Council of Czech Television is supposed to do by law, that is, public control of public media. Somebody come over here for the counter and say there's got to be something else, that it's supposed to be loyalty to AB, to the YES movement, or anything, to Petr Dvořák, or I don't know anyone else. You won't find anything like that in the law. So, of course, the YES movement can do research, and it does logically, every MP club does. But let us do this in a diction of the law, in a diction of what a member of the Czech Television Council is really going to do, and not in terms of whether the person will be obedient or not obedient. We really make the Czech Television Council an undignified farce. And I repeat and recall what he said here before me, I think, Minister Zaorálek: it is an essential body that supervises public media, the Czech Television, which as such is absolutely essential for the media scene within the Czech Republic. I would very much like, therefore, for President Berkovc to be clearly confronted by the ANO movement and for him to draw his own conclusions so that he does not have to deal with this unnecessarily by the electoral committee, and I would like the choice to take place precisely in the spirit of who is competent to carry out the independent public control function of the Czech Television Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u41	Thank you. President Pekarová Adamová, President Bartoš will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Berkovec's name is much lower here. He hasn't said anything yet. So allow me, through the President, to call on him to comment on some of the sentences that are in the context of the cited materials that have been distributed to some members of the ANO movement, so that he can explain them himself. I would specifically like to know how to interpret this particular assessment of one of Mr Klíma's candidates here: "This candidate has been working very actively against YES in the long term. There is no reason to believe that this will be different in the Czech Television Council. In the Czech Television Council, he will represent exclusively the interests of Mr Dvořák and Mr M.CH." Which is supposed to be a shortcut to a million moments. So I call on you, Mr President of the Committee, to explain to us what is the essential criterion for you, which you prefer, and which you recommend to your colleagues in the case of an election to this body, which is so important for the independent functioning and objective functioning of television. At the same time, a comparison was made with the fact that we are returning here to practices that were common under the previous totalitarian regime, for cadreing and so on. I was born at the time, but I don't remember much of it, so I looked into the archives of what such assessments looked like at the time. And I will also allow you to quote one of them. I think the parallel to the material is so obvious, it doesn't need any more comments. The hardcore review is from 25. 2nd year of 1952, so it was before normalization. Specifically, he was on Bernard Bednář. I quote: "With good guidance and because it is critical and self-critical, it is assumed that it will deal with its undesirable properties. The appointed one is the nature of prowess, selfless at work, showing signs of vanity that could culminate in unhealthy ambition." And now, at random, I quote from two reports that Mr Berkovec created and sent: "Medically, he is a slightly controversial figure, but with his communication skills he would probably be able to overcome this handicap quickly. " From another: "Professionally skilled economist, very headstrong soloist, hard to work on the team. Mediaally controversial person whose behavior in the Czech Television Council will always be unpredictable." So I deliberately chose both an opinion which is recommended and neutral, then of course the negative one already mentioned. [[12.50 hours]] I, ladies and gentlemen, really do not want to go back to the past, which, I firmly believe, we are most of us glad that we have overcome. And please do not do so even in the case of this important election. And here in this direction, I also join the challenge that has already been raised here from more than one mouth. I ask Mr Berkovec, President of the Committee, to give up this position, and I also ask, through the President's representative of the ANO movement, to give us a clear statement. And I also add that this should not be to the end, so that we can no longer respond to this. I don't think that's fair, Mr. Faltýnek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u43	Thank you. President Bartoš, President Rakušan will prepare himself, priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to respond, or speak with two points on this. The first, and it was said here by several previous speakers, we are actually going to vote for a representative for the Public Media Council. When we met with the democratic opposition over those names, and then we talked about them especially after the public speeches, we also talked about candidates, their professional qualities, where the first thing that was said, and all of them from the democratic opposition agreed that we would not - and we applied for candidates who are somehow linked to a political party - nominate candidates for whom such links would be, whether they were former candidates or someone who closely cooperates with a specific party. So it sounded like a condition. We had an organization in our proposal, for example, a man who ran for the pirate party, and we automatically ruled him out to rule this out. We looked at this spectrum of people according to expertise, independence, their work historical, their contribution to independent media, and this is how we acted, such candidates we proposed for the pirát. That's the first part I wanted to say. The second part, which I think is essential, and here some of my previous speakers have already said, especially since the ANO movement, that the choice is then conscious and conscience and that this person will make a decision and that this is some recommendation that no one needs to deal with. I'll take it. It's your reason. A lot of people can take a lot, even the pressure of the public. There is a comparison to the hippo skin. But so be it. Let's go that way, then. And it bothers me that every time we vote for someone, there are cries on the nose of the citizens. The Rules of Procedure prejudice a public choice. Public choice. Not a secret. Mr. Andrej Babiš, in connection with Mr. Křeček's election as an Ombudsman, said: "Well, they threw it to him, and it would be best if we avoided the speculations - I quote the Prime Minister freely - let these elections be public. - Well, they're public elections, but there's always the President of the kolovratník here, and he's gonna propose a secret choice. And then everyone votes, the majority supports the choice secretly, we vote for the choice public, thus against the proposal for a secret election. Then there's the vote, and then there's the bet that's being played, if anybody in the opposition has failed, whether you or they threw it, whether the person supported it. So when it has been said that a person is voting, because he is standing behind it, and some such pamphlet, or let's say a list of the characteristics of the candidate, whether positive or negative, cannot influence it, so let's say out loud - and I would actually like to follow up on what Prime Minister Babiš said in connection with Mr Křeček - let's vote against the committee's proposal for a secret choice, so it will be a public choice and we can see if the recommendations that were in Mr Berkovec's letter are valid or not, whether those people are voting according to competence or according to the criteria - are friendly to the ANO movement or to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. So... As always, the pirates will vote against the proposal put forward by the Commission, a proposal for a secret choice, because the Rules of Procedure presume that the choice is public. The Prime Minister wanted it, too, and I am glad that we can find a match in some matters and we can comply with the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u45	Thank you. Chairman Vít Rakušan. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u46	Hello. Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat many of the speeches, because I could sign the words of my previous speakers - Stanjura, colleagues of the Výborný, colleague Pekarová. But there's one aspect that hasn't come up yet. In the caddling e-mail sent to you, colleagues from the ANO movement, by the chair of the electoral committee Berkovec, and who knows who else, apart from the presentation of the positive and negative characteristics of individual candidates, perversion or deviation to the ANO government movement, there was another important thing. Roman Bradáč will in no way represent the interests of P Dvořák. In no way will Mrs. Hubk represent the interests of Dvořák in the Hubková Council. In the Council of the Czech Republic, he will in no way represent the interests of Director Dvořák Marek Hladký. And so we could go on and on. In that list, in addition to the cadre reviews as cut out from the former regime, there is still one thing that makes it very clear to us: the ANO movement is trying to elect the Czech Television Council in such a way that the current leadership of Czech Television is being shot off. At this point, the ANO movement clearly defines itself against how the management of Czech television works after the personnel line. That means, you say: we will only vote for candidates and candidates who will simply define themselves hard against the current director. You're already saying your position in advance. You are already revealing your political steps in advance, and they are simply clear: We want the current director of Czech Television to finish. And those people have to say it in advance, make it clear before they get any confidence from the YES movement. That's just your curry attitude. So apart from the reports that someone is living with someone and friends with a representative of millions of moments, and that's why he's untrustworthy to us - I don't know if it gives you the creeps, yes, you probably don't, it's probably your routine, you probably communicate with each other in the ANO movement. You cast people, you subjugate them, I have to say it, the aesthetic methods. But you already put forward in advance: he will represent the interests of the director, he will not represent them, and this is even the candidate of the director of Czech Television, he somehow put it there. Well, you probably have a very good spy network that knows who he wants or doesn't want the current director. You have really high standards of information through you to President Berkovc. Really great information. I don't know where you found them all. You have them much better than all of us. But we all don't write about someone else, who he lives with, who he's friends with, who he's been seeing. I have the impression, by your means, Mr President, that you, Mr Berkovč, were a man who was brave during the previous regime, and more brave than many here in the hall. And that makes it really weirder for me that you're going down to methods like this. So, for the STAN movement, I am very clear that we will support your appeal from the post of committee chief. And I would still like the YES movement to stop thinking only on the Dvořák personnel line, not Dvořák. If this is the basis of your policy, you are simply out of the law, because the Czech Television Council is to control the proper functioning of Czech television and is not to serve to blow up its director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Plzák will respond to your speech with a real comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u48	I'm sorry. I made a promise, but I can't really respond to that. I beg you, Mr. Director Dvořák is interested in getting as much reward as possible. This advice gave it to him, although we all know that the Czech Television's management is secretly deficitd. So we don't want people representing Mr. Dvořák's interests to be rewarded, even though they're miserable. Mr. Dvořák's interest is that Gallery Leic's wife, who has a hidden commercial on TV, prospers. We don't want the council that tolerates it, the people who will tolerate it. Please, it's nothing personal against Mr. Dvořák, but it's against the interests of his family and his wife's economic interests. If you want people like that in there, put them in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u49	Thank you. The President of the Rakušan with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u50	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. Perhaps by your means, Mr President, you should have Plzák your resolution and not spoken because you merely confirmed that this is the person of Director Dvořák. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u51	Thank you. Mr Výborný with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u52	Thank you. I would ask Mr Plzák and others, through the President, very much, to go back to what is the choice of the Czech Television Council. Just as there is nothing about loyalty towards AB or the ANO movement, there is nothing about whether someone is going to hand or not to hand the CEO of Czech Television. Yes? So let's get back to the matter. Because these are the crazy criteria of the YES movement, but according to them, if a Member chooses the way he promised to respect the laws of the Czech Republic, he should not make any decisions at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u53	It's 13 o'clock. I presume that there is a general will of the Chamber of Deputies to complete the ballot points now and not to interrupt the House of Deputies' meeting for lunch, but in accordance with tradition, of course, if there is any other opinion, then I ask the President of the Clubs to agree on a further procedure between them. If I don't get another piece of information, we'll continue the negotiations. It is Mr. Jiří Valenta's turn in the debate. After that, Mr. Výborný is registered. I presume he has already given priority rights, so Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize that I will no longer continue to wash this dirty laundry, but before we proceed to the very election of the new members of the Czech Television Council, allow me a few sentences, although their content will be nothing new for some of you. Unlike some representatives of the Czech Television-prone political-economic groups, I believe that the current staff composition of the Czech Television Council unfortunately does not allow and does not guarantee consistent and effective public control in the areas allocated to the Czech Television Council by the Czech Television Act. And what kind of control and other powers, at least the most fundamental, are they? The Board shall be responsible for: appoint and recall the Director-General and, on his proposal, the Director of Czech Television Television Studies; approve the budget and final account of Czech Television and control the implementation of the budget of Czech Television; approve, on a proposal from the Director-General of the Statute of Czech Television; submit to the Chamber of Deputies for approval of the Czech Television Code; approve proposals from the Director-General for setting up or repealing television studies; decide on complaints concerning the Director-General; supervise the performance of public service tasks in the field of television broadcasting and the fulfilment of the principles arising from the Czech Television Code; determine the Director-General's salary. The Czech Television Council grants the Director-General of Czech Television consent to the disposal, loading or rental of real estate for a period of more than three months. The Czech Television Council presents an annual report on the activities and management of Czech Television to the Chamber of Deputies - and I am coming to an end in this list. The Council shall manage according to its own budget, the costs of the Board's activities and the remuneration of its members, as well as the costs of the Supervisory Commission's activities and the remuneration of its members shall be borne by the special expenditure item of the Czech Television's budget. So much for the responsibilities, at least the most fundamental ones. And now I will allow myself to add a few of my observations and considerations to these powers. And I'll start from the end. The very fact that all the costs of the activities and rewards of the Board and the Supervisory Commission are covered by the budget of Czech Television is unacceptable only by common sense. In a simple way, every thinking person must know that when someone pays someone, they are bound to do so in a way. This must be quickly amended by the amendment of the relevant law and destruct such a semi-clientelistic link created between the management of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Television. Or do you also think that when last year the Czech Television Council confirmed 15 key managers' salaries and rewards of CZK 46.5 million, with an average of CZK 3.1 million per person, that it was fine and moral and that this corresponds to the current quality of the broadcast? In particular, the level of reporting offered and public publicity, whose imbalance, degree of tendency, bias or frequent attempts to manipulate public opinion, is criticized by a large part of the public. And the follow-up commentary from Czech Television on this? It is said that an indication of the amount of wages and remuneration without taking account of the tasks and responsibilities of the person concerned has no justification and benefits in terms of contributing to the debate on matters of public interest. Personally, however, I feel superior contempt for the citizens of this country and their intelligence. The Czech Television Council should always point to this as the first one, many times and from many different sides and angles of the view, there have also been long performances. I, too, will keep this topic until we discuss the Report on Economics of Czech Television for 2018, which we have already included in our programme. The sum of the sum, ladies and gentlemen, is before us the election to the Council of Czech Television, an institution which, although it does not, in my opinion, have all the necessary legal powers, so that its control can be really effective, already with the many powers I indicated at the outset. Unfortunately, they don't use them enough. I do not have the habit, I recommend, to consider this very well and cautiously when choosing. I believe you have information similar to mine. It's not like it's a secret, it's just a little bit of an interest, and some fundamental facts always catch up with you on their own. And that we have them on the table in connection with the Czech Television. As electors, we should now focus intensively on which of the proposed candidates is already linked to the structures on Czech television, especially the problematic ones. Or whether or not the person of the candidate or someone in his circle is or has been sucked directly or indirectly on generous money lines leading from Czech Television, or who is whose friend and for what reason. And don't be mad at me, I actually see such candidates there now. However, such people have no business in the control body of public Czech television. They will not help anyone except themselves and their crews, and they will not help the public service at all. Please, all of us, let us not succumb to the pressure or choice of some lobbyist or interest groups that mean so well with our country and all its citizens. In fact, many are behind their particular interest and the special-purpose break-up of the nation. And yet these people bear virtually no responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, another parallel or shadow management of Czech Television, if you will, does not need our public. In particular, citizens want responsible and high-quality performance of the public service of the largest public media in the country and naturally and closely related control of the Czech Television's management method corresponding to the gigantic seven-billion-dollar budget. And in this sense, I now wish us all a happy hand in choosing new members of the Czech Television Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u55	Thank you. It is now Mr Tomáš Martínek's turn in the general debate, and Mrs Němcová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said several times, the members of the Czech Television Council and the law are to be independent, they are not to perform their duties for the benefit of political parties or interest groups. From this point of view, I would like to ask that we vote for candidates who are extra-party. This can help, for example, the result of the election committee vote, when 17 Michal Klíma won the most out of 18 possible votes and 16 were won by Zdeněk Holý, Jiří Schwarz or Ivan Douda. It is obvious that there was a general consensus on them and they would certainly not be considered a party candidate. I would also like to say that, above all, the YES movement should vote against a secret choice. I would like to quote their President's contribution literally: It would be best for such elections to be public and not secret. When it comes to the Ombudsman's choice, perhaps that would be appropriate. Today we have a choice for the Public Media Council, and I think that is also appropriate. If the law prejudices a public choice, it is enough to vote against a secret election, and then a public election takes place. Once again, all Members, I ask you to vote in accordance with your best knowledge and conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u57	Thank you. And now it is Mrs Miroslava Němcová's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u58	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow a few comments before the election of the members of the Councils of Czech Radio and Czech Television in the debate currently under way, also on my part as a member of the Election Committee. I must say that the electoral committee did not have a simple position because today we are to vote for six members of the Czech Television Council and two members of the Czech Radio Council. As has already been said by the President of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, 86 candidates volunteered for six members of the Czech Television Council, from which the Election Committee had to select 18, i.e. three times the occupied seats. I want to say for myself that the selection for me personally was difficult because of those 86 they were exceptional, for the most part exceptional personalities that came and were designed from the academic world, a lot of proposals, or a lot of proposals, for example, Charles University, various faculties of her, various honorable other institutions of the Czech Republic. I repeat that for me personally, and I have been present at committee meetings during individual hearings, most of the applicants have met criteria which I would have imagined a member of the Czech Television Council or a member of the Czech Radio Council to meet. So it was a difficult choice because when you have to decide from 86, narrow your choice to 18, so it's very difficult. I mean, since yesterday, when the e-mail of President Berkovec appeared, some of these people who were nominated for the board came to me. It was both those who were not chosen in group 18 - and you can say aha, so the unsuccessful ones respond - but they were also those who were chosen and are conspired by what actually turned out to be reality in the selection of members of the Czech Television Council. I'm not talking about the Czech Radio Council right now. I'll get back to that. They were constipated because they were honest personalities who had demonstrated their expertise and ability throughout their lives to perform a full function that demands them to be able to comply with a law that requires members of these councils to assess objectivity, balance and, at the same time, to be the voters of future directors of these institutions. I think that the Chamber of Deputies - perhaps not the Chamber of Deputies, but Mr Berkovec owes these people an apology. If he doesn't decide to do it himself, then from this point on, I'm sorry to all those who attended those public hearings, and the public hearings were held for three days nonstop. I apologize to those who have read about themselves the outrages that remind them of some cadre, aesthebacious files in their summary. It's a really professionally processed compound for individual persons. And I'm told that this chamber has been distributed to some members of the ANO Group of Parliament. Not all of them. Some have not received this material and wonder what it says and come to ask questions and now find out. I'm not willing to read the text here because it seems so outrageous and disgusting to me that I don't even think I'm able to read these things here. If you are interested in them, you want to know what your President of the Election Committee has sent you, ask him inside the club to send it out to those whom he has forgotten, either intentionally or by mistake. And please judge to what extent these considerations correspond - as he says they are his considerations - as they correspond to how you should act as Members. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] I would like to say one point that concerns the fact that in the material, as President Berkovec has passed on individual members, it is for Director Petr Dvořák to be removed from his post. They have already been mentioned here by other previous speakers of the main quality, which is preferred by President Berkovec in this selection, that is to say loyalty to the ANO movement, loyalty to Andrej Babiš. So it certainly seems crazy to me that it says on each proposed one, whether or not he's a signatory to the Million Moments! You can read that with every name. Signal of the Million Moments! Does that seem normal to you? It's like a charter 77 signatory! Which was a dog sign for anyone who got into this group, so suddenly he was an enemy of society. You'll read all that in there. And I'd like to stop by one name, however much I don't want to publish the others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u59	I'm sorry, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u60	Martin Schmarcz yesterday in an interview - this is one of those who were nominated and then were selected to the group of eighteen, so he says behind him... Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u61	Once again, I ask for peace so that the Member can finish her performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u62	Martin Schmarcz says that he was approached by a man who, I hope I'm not mistaken, named Michal Walter Kraft, and asked him if he would be the director of Petr Dvořák's appeal or not. If he does, he'll be in the right pile, says Martin Schmarcz in the interview, and if he's not for Petr Dvořák's appeal, he'll be in the wrong pile. In other words, when preparing the material sent out by President Berkovec, those whom we will now decide in the election were probably addressed, and the only criterion was loyalty to YES, to YES, to Andrej Babiš and the request for the appeal of Petr Dvořák. This is what's going on. Martin Schmarcz is talking about it. And why am I talking about this? Because I don't think we're qualified to join the election of members of the Czech Television Council today. The Election Committee - proposals are being made for the President to be called off. If that happens, which I don't know right now, a new chairman will come in. I think it would be desirable for the new chairman to call the election committee to assess the scope of the document we are talking about today, and at the same time to ask all the 18 people who have been chosen to come to the election committee and tell us whether they have also been approached by someone, such as Mr Kraft, or Mr President Berkovec, or by someone else who has written the material, I do not know whether they have received the call: you will call back or not, you will be in the right pile, or you will be in the wrong pile. Without these findings, without making this clear, I believe that the Chamber of Deputies does not have to make this choice today. Therefore, I propose that we interrupt the election of members to the Czech Television Council today, until the election committee is convened, until the chairman of this committee, Berkovec, and the new chairman, and before all the circumstances we have learned from this e-mail are assessed. Then I would like to make one more point, and it concerns who actually wrote it. Perhaps it would be desirable for President Berkovec to come forward here - because I personally do not think that this is all his reasoning and his wording and his text. That someone was helping him. And in the spirit of what the Prime Minister says at the Minister of Health's press conference, I want to hear the name, who wrote it. "Don't be so polite, Mr. Chairman, say the name." I guess that's how you do it. [[13.20 hours]] Note to the Czech Radio. Why is she talking about Czech Television and so quiet about Czech Radio? Today we will elect members for the Radio Council and for the Television Council. There are emails around the members of the Czech Television Council, who he is, or is not a signatory, who he is, who he is friends with, who he meets, who he is close to, how much he likes ANO, whether he likes Andrej Babiš enough - and who does not go to the members of the Czech Radio. It means that the YES movement already knows that the Czech Radio has been fought out, that it is already in its place, that it does not have to worry so much about whether or not I am going to go, while the Czech Television does not yet have that certainty. That is why there is such a difference between these institutions in the approach from the decisive movement within the Chamber of Deputies. I am convinced that we are witnessing something that is a warning signal. We should stand by this, and I therefore insist on the proposal that I have made here, and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u63	Thank you. There was a procedural proposal that we interrupt this election until the election committee sits down and clears up its leadership - or how exactly can we formulate this to make it voteable? Because at this point, the election committee has a chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u64	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. And at the same time, I want to apologize to everyone who heard this proposal for the first time, and I didn't have time to consult with them. I understand that they are now in a time frame and do not have enough time to think about whether or not this is consistent with their idea of progress, so I apologize to all of you. My proposal reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies interrupts item 189 - Proposal for the election of members of the Czech Television Council until the President of the Election Committee, Stanislav Berkovec, and his successor, has been elected, and until the election committee sits down and discusses the e-mail that passed through the Chamber of Deputies, and takes its position on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u65	Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal on this procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u66	I didn't enter the debate. But it seems to me a rather special procedural decision to assume the appeal of the chairman of the commission. I mean, I understand that the situation is complicated and so on, but this doesn't seem like the right procedure at this point. I would suggest that, if necessary, simply interrupt until the next meeting, for example, that should be sufficient time to resolve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u67	Yes, thank you. I will ask the honourable Member whether she agrees or adopts this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u68	Yes. I will adopt this proposal. I think it suits the demands of both mine and the idea of further progress. And I think that would clear up the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u69	So the suggestion is that we interrupt until the next meeting. Isn't that right? Yes, thank you. That is a voteable proposal. Initiating vote. I'm sorry. There was a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm not sorry, the application to unsubscribe was too late, but I complied with it, so I checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. Of course, the vote that took place is not valid. [[He's waiting a while.]] So, now we're logged in again. And I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 104, 163 Members registered, for 53, versus 84. The motion was not accepted. And now we're going to continue. Mr Jiří Bláha, then President Bartoš, will respond to a point of fact. [[No! - Fun and applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Mr. Bláha has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u70	My serious colleagues, my colleagues, it's smiling, but it's very sad for me. I'm sure you've read the articles that have been written about me, and I'm still deciding whether to stay here or not, and that's one of the things that tells me - what are you even doing here? Because what's going on here is actually just a shift in what was here 30 years ago, before the revolution, when we kept casting on better and worse people, to better and worse politicians. Whose opinion is the right one or whose opinion is the wrong one. Personally, I would ask you - and I think we're all adults, responsible, and if anyone knows Standa Berkovec in private, they can't possibly expect anything bad from him, because the way I know him, he's a great person with a heart on his palm. And I don't mean to say that his opinions will always be the right ones. But really, let's think about how we caste ourselves here, and let's really act like people, like elected Members, who are going to decide some direction, the direction of Czech television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u71	Thank you. President Ivan Bartoš with a point of fact. No, there's been a mistake. So, at this point, Mr Berkovec is entering into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. I am very glad that I could listen to all your contributions, and thank you for them all. My staff, which I have prepared, is called an apology and a thank you. A few days ago, in private correspondence, I sent some of my colleagues my private opinion. So I have to say that what I'm hearing here, some of the things I'm hearing here, or some of the things I'm reading in the media, I've never written. But it's hard to prove. It was a private e-mail. And I'm pretty sure I'm the one who triggered the instigation, the target on my back. I did this because many of my colleagues asked me about my opinion, not as President of the Election Committee, but as a man who has some 30 years of experience in the media, whether public or private. In this context, however, I must apologize for two things. One. I apologize for sharing my private opinion with anyone else, and I promise I will do everything I can to make sure it doesn't happen again. Two. I apologize for not realizing that no communication policy is private communication, and I acknowledge my mistake. Finally, please allow me to express my thanks to the National Reconstruction organization for giving all Members public instructions on who to vote for and who to vote for in the Czech Television Council. I believe that this reconstruction manual will certainly contribute to the democratic and cultivated course of the election, which aims at achieving a state where the Czech Television Council will represent all major regional, political, social and cultural currents, as stipulated by the law. This is Act 483, I believe it is § 4 para. 1 where it is clearly defined. In conclusion, let me add one more crucial sentence. At the earliest possible opportunity, I shall offer my position as President of the Election Committee at my disposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u73	I thank Mr Berkovc. Mr Výborný will respond with a point of fact, and then President Faltýnek is signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u74	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, to President Berkovc. I think it's useless to apologize for having an opinion. Of course, no one's taking that away from you. And I expect every MP, as we are here, to have an opinion and to be able to share it with our colleagues. We've been having this whole debate about the content itself and the criteria. But obviously we're throwing games at the wall. But I want to do something else. I, Mr President, have called on you, through Mr President, to apologise to the candidate, who you have also placed his medical condition in, which personally affects not only his family but his. You didn't do it, all right. On behalf of the Chamber of Deputies, I apologize to this candidate because it really seems to me to be beyond all decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u75	Thank you and President Jaroslav Faltýnek in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am calling forward with my speech that I do not want to provoke another debate, and let us try, if possible, at least to select someone for the Czech Radio Council and Czech Television even though I myself am more of a pessimist after this debate. But even after the meeting of our MP, and I've been telling my fellow journalists all day, and even yesterday, and no one has ever written it, including the fact that I had a few discussions with Standa Berkovec, and I would like to thank him in this regard and thank him for the male gesture when he offered his position at his disposal. Thank you, Standa. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] My personal opinion is that it was a mistake. That Standa just made a mistake. And mistakes are paid for. It's interesting that I didn't get the e-mail. And as my colleague Němcová said through the President, I did not even look for him. And basically, I didn't really care what was in the e-mail, since my colleague, Standa Berkovec, didn't bother sending it to me anymore. But I got different e-mails. And now I'm not talking about how logical it is that I, as the head of the biggest club, have been debating with club presidents for weeks. With Radim Fiala, with Zbyněk Stanjura, with Jakub Michálek, separately, with the whole Demoblock, just to know what the opinion is. Because it is simply a choice, even if it is a public institution, it is simply a choice of the Chamber of Deputies. And that's politics, unfortunately, that's what it is. Let's face it. So I know the views and preferences of all the MPs. And I think that even the 18-year-old chosen by the electoral committee takes into account the preferences of almost all the MPs. The two e-mails I got. I received two e-mails from the State Reconstruction, from Mr. Lukáš Kraus and from Mr. Josef Karlický. Including the fact that the medallions of all 18 candidates were published, where the reconstruction of the state says - I am not commenting - who is okay: Mr Klíma, Holý, Schwarz, Kysilka, Staněk, Švejda, Závozda and the others have some doubts. They posted it publicly on the web. And I asked my colleagues, with whom I communicate, both Mr Kraus and Mr Karlický, if I could provide this email to all our Members, just to get a picture. And I got permission. So I just provided it, I don't know if any of the other 78 Members besides the recommendation or the opinion on the debate, and the conclusion of our club was that we broke up with the fact that we had a free vote. And you can believe it or not, and we'll see how that choice ends. And I'm not commenting on any position from 19 senators who are sending the Bishop's conference to withdraw anyone, they didn't. I'm not commenting on that at all. I have only received official e-mails from the Reconstruction of the State with which we communicate in the long term, I also communicate with them, about the laws and many other things. And I asked fair and square: "Can I send?" You can. So I sent it. And the debate at our club was an hour and a half on this. So so very briefly on my part. I mainly wanted to perform to thank Stand for realizing this mistake and offering his position at his disposal. That's it, and please, let's vote if it's just a little bit possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u77	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u78	I'm ready to vote, too. I'll see what happens. In general, I said when I look at the candidates who went through the election committee, that the election could turn out perfectly, on average, and badly. It will depend on all of us how we choose. There are enough good candidates to meet those criteria. However, I will not join Mr Berkovc in thanking him, but that is not important. I'd like to ask you in a procedural way: Who did you offer this position to? For us I say, well done, take it, go away! But I did not understand whether the Chamber of Deputies, whether we should vote or the ANO Group of Deputies, because I respect that the chairman of the committee under political agreements will be the nominee of the ANO Group of Deputies. Let me get this straight. You said at the nearest opportunity, that's today. And if you would now announce your resignation, to all of us and to the electoral committee, and to plenary, you will make your work easier, because we will not have to go back to this. On the election committee, we will select a new chairman, and I think it is consensual that there will be no government versus opposition vote either. And at the next plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, we can confirm the new President in office in order to take up his duties. I would not delay anything, Mr Berkovč, through the Vice-President. I accept it for our club, your offer, but I don't think it was directed to us. At the same time, however, I respect that there will be a nominee for your parliamentary club, that is absolutely correct. And even in my first performance, I said that there are people there who will certainly perform that function very well. So it wouldn't just fit in and then I didn't know that for example. Your MP didn't accept the offer. So I don't know who you're addressing this offer to. If the Chamber of Deputies as a plenary, that is a good thing, then you can simplify and speed things up for us. Because the result will be the same - we will have a new chairman of the electoral committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u79	Thank you. Mr Jiří Běhounek, with a factual remark. Or is it a mistake? Yes, I'll delete you from your electronic log-in. I have no further application for the debate, I am ending the debate. I ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to guide us through the next procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u80	Thank you. Now, after the debate, as is customary for these points, we should vote on the proposal, as I said, both the electoral committee and the electoral committee, that the election will be made in a secret way, and then we will agree on the time to issue and mark ballots.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u81	Yes, I have called in Members and Members to carry out the vote. I think we're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of a secret choice? Who's against it? Voting number 105, 165 Members signed in for 121, versus 25. The motion was accepted. Before I give the Prime Minister the floor, two apologies. Minister Maláčová apologizes from this afternoon's meeting for work reasons. Mr Jan Birke from 14:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Chairman, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u82	Well, thank you. I think we can vote off in - I'll round that time - 27 minutes. I'll set the time to open the polling rooms by 14.05. So please proceed to the choice. After that, I do not know what the agreement of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs is on the afternoon part. So if the electoral committee makes it to 2:30 or after lunch break, I'd announce the election results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u83	Mr Martin Jiránek for the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u84	Thank you, just a quick one. I voted against in the 102 vote, and I have a pro on the high. I'm not questioning anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been some information here about the continuation of the House of Deputies' negotiations by the President of the Election Commission, but I will correct that information. The afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 15 o'clock. Now information for the members of the Organizing Committee. The Organizing Committee will meet at 1:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u86	Good afternoon. Initiating the afternoon agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting. I'll read the apologies first. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for Malá of work, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes from 15 to 19 o'clock due to illness, she apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons, and Mr Miroslav Kalousek apologizes from 14 to 19 o'clock for reasons of work. I had some information here that Mr Bartošek, President of the KDU-ČSL Club, wants to speak with priority rights. Isn't that right? After. I'll make a note of you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, I ask the President of the electoral commission of Mr Martin Kolovratník to introduce us to the results of the elections that took place before lunch. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-11-ps2017-041-06-008-189.u87	Thank you for the floor. I wish you a good afternoon and let me introduce you to the results of the elections to the media councils, to the Council of Czech Radio and Czech Television. Before I publish the results, I would like to point out that in particular in the second choice, the television one, the result, which was decided by the election or the procedure for the second round, really one vote in relation to the vote needed to be elected, and the electoral commission worked practically in the full assembly of representatives of all parties, and we counted the result three times, so for any doubts whether your or the journalists really want to thank the members of the electoral committee and underline that we really carefully checked and recounted the results after the ticket. We stand by them, there's absolutely no mistake. In both cases 175 ballots were issued, the same number was also surrendered, and the quorum required for the election was in both cases 88.
