ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-003-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended, and Act No. 87/1995 Coll., on savings banks and credit cooperatives and certain measures related to this and supplementing the Czech National Council Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, as amended /German press 559/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-003-020.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, let me briefly mention the government bill amending the Bank Act and the Savings and Loan Cooperative Act. I would like to begin by pointing out that the bill tabled is largely based on Parliament's press 1061, which has not been completed during the previous term of office of the Chamber of Deputies. That is why the proposal is now being tabled again, with some partial amendments being made in addition. As far as specific content is concerned, the draft law makes changes of a technical nature in order to facilitate the interpretation of the law or refinement, or to supplement the implementation of the law of the European Union. At the same time, the bill brings some substantive changes. Let me mention the four most important: 1. The proposal strengthens the protection of bank clients in cases where there would be a transformation or any available to the bank's business establishment or its component; 2. addresses certain problems associated with the withdrawal process and makes it more effective; 3. reduces the administrative burden on market operators; 4. performs partial changes related to experience in the functioning of the Czech deposit guarantee system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-003-020.u3	So, I ask now that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-003-020.u4	Yes, thank you for your word. This proposal for an amendment to the Banking Act may not attract such media attention, yet I think it deserves us to work it out in peace at second reading, because it is relatively large and concerns a number of things, whether truly crucial, as the Minister mentioned, or perhaps less significant from a certain point of view. It's over 30 pages of paragraph, for those who didn't even have it in their hands to imagine how extensive the novel is. And undoubtedly, it also concerns sensitive matters such as the authorisation to operate cooperative bases, which has been a segment of our financial market for some time, which has been closely monitored, and if, in this context, the withdrawal of the licence should take place and, let us say, postpone the enforcement of the judgment of the administrative court in this matter, it is certainly a matter of certainty, certainly sensitive. Likewise, as regards the financing of the guarantee fund, which is set up there in order to be able to live up to the legal guarantees in the event of a collapse. And there it is undoubtedly appropriate to address issues such as the proportionality of these changes when guaranteeing individual entities that place their money in the guarantee fund. The changes will concern both the administrative order and the CNB itself, which somehow needs to adjust its access to the management of the central register in order to be able to work with it more easily in these selected cases. There is a question of extending the obligations for credit unions, for campers so that they can meet those requirements by the central bank, and so on and so on. So maybe I sketched out, let's say, the scale and meaning of this novel, and hopefully no one can find a political bomb that serious enough to block the proper negotiation, because these things have been in stock for some time now, and I think they need to be properly discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-003-020.u5	Now, I'm going to read an apology. Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologizes for today's meeting from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. And now I'm opening a general debate where I don't have anyone logged in, so I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the general debate. I ask the final words - Madam Secretary, rapporteur? No. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see another suggestion. In the meantime, I have already begun to ensure that Members can take part in the vote, so we will wait a while. So, then, we will vote on whether you agree that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 85: 151 Members registered, for 133, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. So I'm asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees to discuss. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with this discussion of this proposal at first reading. We have another point here. This is about
