ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u1	379. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the merits of Czechoslovak legionnaires I ask that Mr Vít Rakušan take the floor for the plaintiff of this point, who, if he agrees, will also become rapporteur. Ambassador, I'm going to beg you for a moment before I give you my word, because there is a great deal of unrest in the Chamber of the Hall... Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank you once again for your helpfulness. For the helpfulness that you were willing to place this point as a solid point in today's House meeting, and I will try not to delay in my opening words, because my concern is that we still vote on this resolution today. We have another fixed point for the 17th hour, and I would very much like it if we could express ourselves and come to a conclusion. I realize that each of us can interpret history in a different way, and I really don't take that right from anyone in the hall and, of course, I don't take it from the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. However, the difference is whether any of the Members, senior politicians, constitutional officials, such as the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, acts as a private person, or only as President of the KSČM, or as a member of his constitutional function, is it said that he is speaking as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at the time and can be imported, thus expressing the official position of the institution he represents on his way. At the same time, I don't think I want to have a professional historical debate here, because we probably wouldn't be able to convince each other. Our views are simply different, and they are likely to remain different. However, if Vice-President Filip, if the translation of the article I got to is correct, he says that members of the KSČM and other citizens of the Czech Republic are positive about the fact that the Russian government is not interested in forcing local authorities to build monuments for those Czech legionaries who have not freed anyone in Russia and have not done anything good for the world's greatest socialist revolution of the last century in 1917 in Russia - I draw attention to the connection "and other citizens". [[with emphasis on:]] Vice-President Filip did not speak only for KSČM at that time, he did not only speak for himself, but he took the right to speak for other citizens of the Czech Republic. And I do not want Vice-President Filip to speak for me in this context. I don't think it was the greatest socialist revolution of the last century. I think it was a tragedy that caused many lives wasted, lives lost in the last century. I think it was a tragedy similar to that of Nazi hell, because it was just two dictatorships that deformed normal life throughout the 20th century. And if this is the way a person who is referred to in this article as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic is, in my opinion, the only purpose of my proposed resolution is to distance ourselves from these words as the Chamber of Deputies, so that by a clear resolution we can show that this is not the opinion of Parliament in the Czech Republic, and that, at the same time, we appreciate the merit of Czechoslovak legionaries, even if it may be a bit tragic 30 years after the revolution, that we must adopt such a resolution at all in the Chamber of Deputies. I personally consider Czechoslovak legionnaires to be those who have greatly contributed to the free existence of our Czechoslovak democratic state. I would very much like you to support this resolution. I have already announced in advance that I will propose a vote on a case-by-case basis so that at least one of the items in the resolution has a chance to be supported by you. [[16.20 hours]] At the same time, I would like to inform you that, after consulting the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Radek Vondráček, I have reached a final resolution that I would now read to you, and I will update which points are also in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and at the same time I will draw your attention to a point where my resolution is, after all, different. Item one. In agreement with the President: The Chamber of Deputies distances itself from the interview of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip in the medium of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation Krasnaya zvezda. Two. In agreement with the President: he declares that the words of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip do not represent the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on Czechoslovak legionnaires. The third point is the point of my original proposal - it is not in agreement with the President: he calls on Vice-President Vojtěch Filip to represent the Czech Republic with dignity as a constitutional official in public statements and the official direction of foreign policy formulated by the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fourth point again, in agreement with the President: he declares that Czechoslovak legionnaires and their heroism and determination on all fronts of the First World War enjoy our respect because they have made a major contribution to the creation of a free and democratic Czechoslovakia. Once again, we can debate history here, what our view of what historical event is. But that is not what my motion for a resolution is about. This concerns the clear position of the Czech Chamber of Deputies, which distances itself from the personal views of Vice-President Filip, unfortunately expressed as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u3	Well, thank you. Please take the role of rapporteur. At the same time, I would say that I have two motions for resolutions here on the chair table, none of which correspond exactly to what has been read, so I will then hope for an accurate version. I am now opening a general debate in which two Members are enrolled electronically or in writing. However, with priority rights, Vice-President Filip came forward. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce you to my apologies. So Mrs Válková apologises to us between 16.15 and 17.15 for working reasons, Mr Okleštěk apologizes to us between 16 and 19am for family reasons, Mr Vrána apologizes to us between 16 and 19am due to illness. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I will try briefly to put things as they are. I cannot be responsible for what any of us have to say, and the fewer of my statements will be made by journalists in the Czech Republic or abroad. I gave an interview as I give interviews to other journals abroad, Krasnaja zvezda magazine. I sent him in English to translate, and I can therefore say that I did not say any statement that would damage the good name of the Czechoslovak legions. I said - and partly this was quoted by my colleague Rakušan - that there are people in the Czech Republic who have different views on the Czechoslovak legions. And that's true. We can hardly order anyone to say only what an individual in this state thinks, even if he's built in any way. I am also based on the fact that in 2018, when we had one of the highest activities, especially those years before, on the completion of the monument of Czechoslovak legionnaires in Russia, several times in various magazines, how controversial the situation was, and even some newspapers had headlines: The tombs of Czechoslovak legionnaires in Russia arouse strong passions. Yes, it arouses strong passions. I met it when I was on my way to Yekaterinburg, so I visited the tomb of the Czechoslovak legions at the cemetery in Yekaterinburg, I laid flowers there, and I think the pieto was complete as our legionnaires deserved it. I have also been asked several times to help build the graves of the legions where they were interested. Of course, there are places where it goes well. I used the analogy when the journalists asked me that I value the work of Jaroslav Hašek, the commander of the city of Bugulma, where there is a monument to the Czechoslovak legions in Bugulma. There was no problem with the local government to create that monument. On the other hand, there the memory of Jaroslav Hašek had complete and positive, outside the end it was he who, in his first measure in Bugulma, had Bugulma disarmed there, all those weapons brought in, and the next day Bugulma was conquered, with him handing over the command of the city of Bugulma to another representative of the then Soviet power. I'm saying this to make us realize that it wasn't all that easy as it was in Bugulma. And there are at least two cases where the monuments to our legionnaires are prepared under agreement under the 1993 contract, but they are not installed. And I was going to say that we can hardly ask any Czech politician to stand up for the construction of the memorials at the moment when we disassemble here the monument of Marshal Koněv and state power, i.e. the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Defence, does nothing and says that it is a matter of self-government, which is not entirely true, because it is clear that everyone who has been elected representative is sworn to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the Czech Republic. Among the laws of the Czech Republic is the 1993 Treaty between the Russian Federation and the Czech Republic, signed by Boris Jelcin and Václav Havel at the time. This is also part of the Czech rule of law, which was promised by elected representatives that they would respect it. And in that case, when we have our kind of step here, the Czech parties, contrary to this international treaty, ask the Russian side to build the two monuments that are not yet there. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I honestly say that when I was willing in the past at any time - I point out at any time - to stand up for the implementation of this treaty, that means that the Soviet authorities sooner, now the authorities of the Russian Federation, and those local authorities of that local power, those local authorities, to allow the construction of those monuments, even though those places were torn down by huge struggles and huge deaths on the part of both the Czechoslovak legionnaires and on the side of Russian citizens -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u5	Mr Vice-President, I will interrupt you and allow myself to ask the House for more peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u6	So I said that I could hardly participate in this because I would be confronted with every conversation that we are removing the memorials in violation of this international treaty and we want them to install new monuments. And I agree that these monuments should be installed, that apart from what my colleague Rakušan said here, the Czechoslovak legions still had a major share in respecting us by the international community and helping to create a separate Czechoslovak state. Outside Tomáš Garrigua Masaryk was called Mr. Russia at that time, because the individual parties to the war conflict of the First World War basically appreciated the fact that the Czechoslovak legions had for a long time detained those German soldiers who could not be admitted to the French front, and at least according to military historians and according to those involved in military operations, reduced the First World War by several months. [[16.30 hours]] Among other things, this would also fit the motion for a resolution on the appreciation of the Czechoslovak legions, that they contributed not only to the creation of a separate Czechoslovak state, but also significantly contributed to the fact that the First World War ended earlier, and that it therefore had fewer victims than the 10 million mentioned by historical sources. About the conversation itself. I really said, and I have enough proof that part of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and not only members of the KSČM, but at least our voters, and they are much more than members of the KSČM, says: let us treat each other friendlyly and let us not do what bothers us so that the other side doesn't do it to us. That, in my opinion, is a crucial matter. If we do not want to be harmed by someone delaying the construction of the monument of the Czechoslovak legionnaires, for example. in Samara, but we can hardly tolerate here that the self-government does not respect the international legal commitment of the Czech Republic and removes the memorial of Marshal Koněv. Try standing in front of the local government in Samara and defending the Prague 6 procedure. I don't think you'll be successful. I believe that some will have the courage to do so, but success will probably not guarantee it. And if we are keeping over 4,000 war graves and monuments of the Red Army here - and no one can doubt that the main weight of the liberation of Czechoslovakia was in the Red Army, I think the historical facts are clear, 140 000 dead soldiers in the liberation of Czechoslovakia, and it was not only Rus, it was Bělorus, Ukrajinec, Kazaš, of course there were other soldiers from other armies, like Romanian and so on. And that's the question we have to ask ourselves. If we want something from someone, and this applies double in international politics, the principle of reciprocity applies, and therefore we cannot provoke conflict by saying: but in our opinion, the memorial is not part of the war graves. But in the memorial register - and the word memorial is explicitly in the international treaty, it is even in our War Grave Act, it does not only concern war graves, so we should proceed so in respect of this international treaty and not tolerate the fact that someone will, forgive me, tear as paper, even though they have no authority to do so. It was signed by the presidents of both countries in 1993 and its aim was to establish new, equal relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. It's been going well for a long time, out by the end of the day when we think about it, so the years when those monuments began to be built at Trans-Siberian City Hall, we were successful. Not only in Yekaterinburg, but in many other cities, whether it was in Tatarstan - among other things there is Bugulma - also in other parts of East Russia. But now we won't be successful because we're not being reciprocal. Imagine that the Russian authorities would tolerate the city authorities in the Russian Federation to liquidate our monuments. Not that they won't build them, but that they'll be destroyed. How would we like that? When we want to say after 102 years that the Czechoslovak legions were crucial for the formation of the Czechoslovak state. And again, every visit, if possible, in the Russian Federation, I visited the memorials, and the pieto, I honored those fallen Czechoslovak soldiers. The fact that they sometimes stood on different sides and were called Běločech is also true. As for Jaroslav Hašek, he was accused of being a Bolshevik, other historians, e.g. operating in the Federal Republic of Germany, they say that he was not, they accuse him of something else, which bothers me greatly because I respect Jaroslav Hašek as a person who, I would say, has done many for the Czech Republic, especially in the field of culture and fame of Czechoslovak literature. And, yes, he was on the side of that emerging Soviet power at the time of the civil war. The aim of these legions was to go to Vladivostok and return to the emerging Czechoslovakia, which sought independence and needed the support of all those countries, not just those who participated in the First World War, but all of them. Finally, it was us as the emerging Czechoslovakia, which stood at the birth of the League of Nations, which was one of the results of the Versailles Treaty, which was terminated in January this year because it was valid for a hundred years. Its conclusions have long been consumed, and there is even fear that the stability of some of the borders that have been set by the Versailles Treaty is doubtful. I don't want to talk about details. I could quote the Deputy Minister of Defence, who was on that visit in 2018 and sought to build the memorials. And Deputy Secretary Netolická has done a great deal of work. I met with the job when I was dealing with representatives of the Russian Federation. And explaining some of our view of the legions was difficult, but on the other hand we have always come to this, we have always come to the conclusion that for us the Czechoslovak legions are one of the signs of the emerging Czechoslovak statehood and that it is our right to perceive the legion historically and that it is our right to demand that the monuments be created in the territory of the Russian Federation. And the Russian side said yes, if the memorial was created, it would be under the protection of the international friendship and aid treaty, and it would be under the protection of our War Grave Act. And these are, don't be mad at me, in the territory of the Russian Federation much more than in the territory of the Czech Republic, namely the former Czechoslovakia. So I would like to say that this is about telling the truth about what the citizens of the Czech Republic think, whether we should unite our opinion and force them to think what he or she or she in the Chamber of Deputies or that minister. We simply cannot sneak the opinions of the citizens of the Czech Republic, they are free. They have a right to such an opinion. And I have no right to say that such an opinion does not exist in the Czech Republic. If I had said that such an opinion does not exist in the Czech Republic at all, that everyone would have lied. [[unintelligible]] And I don't want to lie. I am convinced that my interview for the Krasnaja zvezda magazine reflects only the opinional level of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and not only members of the KSČM, because not only members of the KSČM elect us. [[16.40 hours]] With regard to the motion for a resolution itself, I think that, after discussing this proposal, it is necessary to consider, in particular, how we appreciate and what the role of the Czechoslovak legions is during the First World War. My proposal, and I do not force it in any way to the plaintiffs, nor to President Rakušan, nor to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, is that the Czechoslovak legions also contributed to the significant reduction of the First World War and the reduction of the number of victims. And if anyone wants to distance themselves from my words, it's his sacred right, I'm not taking it away from him. That's just the way it is. And don't be mad at me, as I don't take the right of anyone to have a different opinion, to distance myself from my words, so let me hold my own opinion and say what I think in any conversation. Because if we scrape what one can and must not think, we can't come to any positive step or positive end. And one more thing to conclude. Let me express our conviction that our aim is to improve relations with our neighbours, improve relations with all the countries of the world community so that we can get along with them as best we can so that we can promote our views, our things so that we can widen our view as far as possible. And to do that, there is no provocation of the type of removal of the memorial, the monument of Ivan Stěpanovič Koněv. I am convinced that we should strive to have a unified international political line in the Czech Republic, which would also be bound by self-government, because self-government also follows Czech laws. And the oath of the deputies is not in vain, it is not in vain. I think it's a very important thing. As far as I am concerned, the challenge to respect the foreign policy line in the Czech Republic is that I may have had enough people in this House, who whenever I had the honour of leading a delegation of the Chamber of Deputies abroad, that I have always respected all the things that are important in relation to the Czech Republic to the state where we went, at every time I accepted the foreign delegation here in Prague I respected the foreign policy line of the Czech Republic, I never left it. And if anyone wants to say that I have done so, then let him give me a concrete example, because I have never really done that, and I have always wanted a particular committee to have enough force in the creation of those delegations to travel the broadest political spectrum of the committee so that we can say that this is not the view of the government coalition that it is not the opinion of the opposition, but that it is the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies. And this is how I've always acted. I never got out of it. I don't know an example. If you want to introduce one, please state it to me, and I'll make it right if I really fail. But as far as I know, I have never done such a thing or done it, because I appreciate that we are able to promote the national interest of the Czech Republic abroad. That's what I've always done, and I'm gonna keep doing it. All I'm not gonna do is shut my mouth and get scared of saying what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u7	Thank you. And now Prime Minister Petříček is registered with priority rights, and then perhaps we will get to those applications of Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the opportunity to express your opinion in today's debate on the importance of the Czechoslovak legions and legionnaires. I'll be very brief. The Czechoslovak legions not only in Russia but also in other battlefields of the First World War played a crucial role in the birth of modern Czechoslovak statehood. The legal tradition, the struggle for national autonomy and the democratic nature of the Czechoslovak state, was one of the most important ideas of the first republic. In many families, they still remember grandfathers and great-grandfathers who fought on Piavia or went through Siberian anabasement. Legionnaire was and remains a role model of an active and committed patriot. Unfortunately, the fact that the legions in Russia were introduced into the Russian civil war determines the ambiguous relationship of Russian public, Russian society to them. It may not be surprising that the assessment of legions differs in the political opinion of the judge. The closer to the Soviet interpretation of history, the more criticisms the legion faces. Critics of the Soviet past, on the contrary, perceive the legions as much as we do. I think we should present the idea of legions as we see it. Regardless of the attitude toward the past, every victim of war deserves a dignified rest and a show of human respect. And here I would like to point out that a number of tombs and monuments of Czechoslovak legionnaires are in bad shape. Some prepared monuments were not even installed, and this was mentioned by Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, for example in Samara. The Czech Republic repeatedly called on the Russian Federation to comply with the provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual maintenance of war graves from 1999 in order to restore proper care for the war memorials of the fallen Czechoslovak legionaries. We will certainly continue this effort further. We will continue to fulfill our obligations. The Czech Republic and the Czech municipalities take good care of more than 4,000 Russian war graves, monuments or monuments, especially from World War II, but also from World War I or from Napoleonic wars. We are fulfilling our obligations here and I would like to reject any accusations against us in this context, both in the case of our treaty with the Russian Federation of 1999, as well as friendship agreements between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation of 1993. Shortly to the end. Today, when we face efforts to monopolize the interpretation of history, we certainly need to remind ourselves of the role and legacy of the legions that address and inspire the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u9	Thank you. The Minister of Culture of the Zaorálek asked me to speak. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce the House with a note. Mr Špičák apologizes today from 5:00 p.m. to the end of the day for medical reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this subject because I think it is a little more complicated than we heard in the speech of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. I happen to have had the opportunity to deal with this at a time when I was a foreign minister, and I feel that I have some information and experience that would be quite good if the House were to be heard. The issue and the question of maintaining graves on both sides, in my opinion, began to get complicated just at the time I was at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is not so difficult to connect with the conflict that took place in Ukraine and Crimea. In parallel with how it was not actually possible to act, or we did not actually deal with Russia at the highest level, that is, the level of ministers or deputy ministers, so the issue of grave maintenance began to get complicated. From that time on, I remember a number of things and complications that began to grow, which is why I think from the perspective I had at that time, the whole thing seems to be significantly different from what Vice-President Vojtěch Filip said. [[16.50 hours]] I don't have a lot of time for this, but at least I'm gonna tell you what the difference is, and why I don't think it's completely true that the point is that these citizens are just thinking something and we can't force them to do it. Because in the case of Russia, I often had the very opposite feeling that in some places, such as Vladivostok and the like, it was the ordinary citizens who were quite favorable to this Czech history, and it was rather the authorities that prevented them and which were quite different. So from a certain point of time, I began to feel that there was a certain interpretation of this history on the Russian side and that it certainly was not a good interpretation, and that it was not a matter of citizens, but that it was actually a question of developing a political situation that was thus reflected in the Czech-Russian relations. I remember, and it is very strange that I was the first time, I think it was a meeting, and it was also a meeting of the Ministry of Defence, it was not only about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in 2015, when the Russian side - it was interesting - it was said for the first time that not only your problems with the monuments, with the monuments of the legionnaires, but also we have problems with the Koněv monument in Prague. It was very surprising back then, because at the time we didn't even know there were any problems with Koněv. And yet, on the Russian side, it was as if it had already been prophetically said that there were problems with the Koněv. It was a big surprise for us back then. Now, I don't want to speculate why that was, but I'm just telling you, I remember this. But what's interesting is that there's been a lot of increase in the fact that we haven't actually been able to find a reasonable agreement, and the situation - we should have some 40 monuments like this that are always in place of dead legionnaires. Those are real grave monuments and places where the legionnaires just died. We should have about 40 of them, and there's about 15 of them. And if someone comes here who's an expert, they'll be calculating problems from different areas, not just from Samara, where we delivered actually, say, some monument, and it wasn't possible to find a place - three variants and all weren't accepted, it wasn't possible to agree. I could talk about our legionnaire monuments that were painted with SS markings or some very evil inscriptions. I don't want to interpret them here. Or the insulted heads of legionnaires and the things we've been seeing repeatedly, and on the Russian side, there was actually a minimum willingness to help. And I don't know if you know this, but as far as I know, in ten years, the Czech Republic has invested over 100 million to repair Russian graves in the Czech Republic. And these are investments by municipalities and investments by the state. And I also know that last year, the Czech Republic, for the first time, I think, did not provide the means to restore our graves to the legionnaires in Russia, because we were unable to get the money we put in there at all. So it's lost its meaning, because actually, the deal has stopped working at this level. So it's interesting from my point of view, but the whole problem is that we couldn't agree with the Russian side to show minimal efforts to worry about the graves of the legionnaires. And sometimes we had a much easier deal with ordinary people than with the authorities. The problem has actually been going on for years. And I want to give information about him here because I've been there a little bit, and because I still feel like there's not a lot to know about it. Here we were unable to agree that we wanted protection, some basic care for the Czech graves of legionnaires. And it can't be, you know, so easily blamed on the fact that the citizens were often negative about it, because those memories led them to the fact that the Czech legionnaires didn't perceive favorably. What I would like to hear here is that there is actually an official narrative of the interpretation of history in contemporary Russia and in that interpretation, when you look at it, you will find that the Czech legions are really criminals, they are the ones who roast the children on the bakery, and they are the ones who are responsible for all the atrocities that took place in that war between the whites and the reds. That's how simple it is. I took the feeling that, of course, in the war between the reds and the whites, terrible things happened at the time and that it was very uncomfortable in the Russian narrative to admit that it was something that the Rus were doing to themselves, so there was a very different alternative version that the atrocities were primarily responsible for the Čech or the Japonec and others, but not to admit that these atrocities were simply between the Rus themselves. Which I, say, understand. But it is something I find difficult to accept, which is why the Czech legionnaires began to press charges for crimes committed, which were often made up of legends. I'm not even saying that everything that happened there was completely digestible to us today, because terrible things happen in wars like this. I am not an expert, but I also know that the Czech legionnaires came when they came to the place they had recaptured and found the mutilated bodies of Czech legionnaires, so then they stopped taking prisoners to retaliate with the section that did it. That means what happened there was not acceptable to today's peaceful life. On the other hand, the tendency to start piling on Czech legionnaires is quite transparent on the one hand and, on the other hand, I feel obliged to defend myself against it. Also, because, in fact, when you're dealing not only with the interpretation of these years, but when you're dealing with the interpretation of 1968, you're just going to find that there's a growing shift in the narrative in Russia, that what happened in 1968 in Czechoslovakia wasn't an aggression. Because the history is absolutely positive. Russia just never failed, not then, not after. So I don't think it's that hard for someone who's just doing a little bit of this, to find out that there's a certain narrative of the Russian history of the twentieth century, in which there's actually a whole bunch of distorted things, and they're learning in schools, they're broadcasting on television. Well, I'm not blaming anything here. I think it's easy to prove. And it seems to me that what you felt as a need is to be heard against it. Because suddenly part of this distorted idealized interpretation of history from the Russian point of view, suddenly the defence of the Czech position is lost. The fact that it wasn't at all that Czech legionnaires were the monsters behind which these Russian interpretations often appear. Just as it isn't true that 1968 was simply a rescue against the counter-revolution, that there was a shooting, there were Američan here. And that's the narrative that's been promoted in Russia. And it seems to me that what we should agree on is that it is our duty to face this narrative. Because we cannot allow it to deform and distort the image of Russian history, which thus concerns our history. That is why it seems important to me what Members or those who represent the Czech Republic, wherever they say or wherever they speak on television. Because I think we should unite here on some basic things. Now I'm not just thinking about the meaning of the legions, but the fact that we're not just going to accept this misrepresentation that is unfortunately happening in Russia today. And I almost wouldn't be here if I didn't have the impression that it was something that was more and more escalating for a year and a year. That means it's kind of a trend that, when I say it over the last five or eight years, it seems to me that it's gone a long way. Let this be about the interpretation of 1968, so let it be about the events concerning the Great Revolution in October and the events in which the Czechoslovak legions entered. Sounds to me like it's the crucial thing. We are obliged to defend a certain image of Czech history, to rely on the facts in it, and not to distort it on the other hand, but to insist on some things. And we shouldn't break this. And I do not know how I have accurate information, but according to the statement made by Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, where he said that Czech citizens are - I do not want to distort it now - but that Czech citizens are somehow satisfied with how the Russian authorities prevent citizens from forcing or... You see, this is like a real step taken towards the Russian interpretation of the history of that time. And that's what I think is worth clearing up here. Because it is unacceptable for me to adapt this to this grossly distorting interpretation of Russian-Czech history, or history where the history of the Czechoslovak legions has encountered the history of the revolution in Russia. That's what I think if someone is leaving behind what we should be defending - and I'm also saying exactly and not making it up - but defending what we have to defend. That's what I think is worth discussing in this House. Because when that happens, it feels like we're failing basically. We simply have some self-respect that concerns the fact that we behaved in some way in history, and it is not possible to allow someone to throw something that is false, false, and grossly distorting on our heads. And we should be clear here in the House. Because then when a delegation goes somewhere and speaks for the Czech Republic, they should not be allowed to ignore it, or even approach the interpretation of the other party, which is terribly distorted in this case. And I say that very gently. So today we're watching him constantly feeding, from those higher places in Russia, the bad reputation of the Czech legions, even learning it in schools. We are witnessing how the image of 1968 is actually constantly deformed. And I feel, it's a matter of basic self-esteem and dignity, that we just have to hear from it. And what is the last and what I do not agree with is that even those who represent as constitutional officials of the Czech Republic to distort such a false, lying image. That's what I feel obliged to hear from you. It is precisely because I think that if it weren't for the Czechoslovak legions, there wouldn't even be an independent state in 1918. And what is it if we can't stand up for someone who is really here sometimes completely grotesquely demonized as the source of all the evil that happened back then? Like there was a lot of it. [[17,00 hours]] So I don't have time to go into detail here, but let me point out that this is a very simplified summary of the essential facts of what's happening here today. And I am very sorry, but Russia is a very bad partner in this very, very bad game today, and we should be aware of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u11	Minister, I have to interrupt you because it's 5:00 p.m., which is where we put some other points. I am interrupting this point in the general debate. Mr. Žáček, Mr. Mihola and then Mr. Rakušan are applied for. With priority right between points, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u12	Thank you, fellow Members, thank you for a substantive and fair debate without any screaming or screaming. But I think it is our duty to this point, I understand that not today, we have a firmly placed other point, but simply to reach the end. I will therefore ask our President of the Club of Deputies to agree with the other Members of the Clubs that the item should be put on the agenda shortly, in order to have some continuity of our debate, firmly. And, if possible, in such a time as to actually be an opportunity to drag him to the end, to let colleagues express themselves and to make some final resolution. Thank you again for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-015-379.u13	Thank you. This point 379 is therefore interrupted until consideration of the points which are now included at 17 o'clock. Which is two points. The first one is point 18. I'm opening it right now.
