ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 7/2002 Coll., on proceedings in cases of judges, prosecutors and judicial executors, as amended, and other related laws /house print 683/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u2	I wish you a good morning and thank you for this meeting, which will help us give priority to the laws that we have also undertaken in cooperation with GRECO that the Czech Republic will accept. The first is the law that the President has made. It is a government bill on proceedings in the case of judges, prosecutors and judicial executors, which was submitted in accordance with the legislative work plan of this government and the recommendation of the group of states against corruption. When we prepared this law, we were intensively communicating with the representatives of the courts, prosecutors, round tables were held for this, we consulted it to the maximum extent possible, and I think we ejected it so much that the law is basically a match. The main objective is to strengthen the safeguards for the legality of proceedings in the case of judges, prosecutors and judicial executors, in particular disciplinary proceedings. This objective is to be achieved primarily by introducing a second stage of the procedure. Furthermore, the purpose of this proposal is to adapt legislation so that the proceedings can take place more effectively. It is proposed to introduce the admissibility of an appeal against a limited circle of decision. Appeals shall not be admissible in particular against decisions of a procedural nature. There are now four disciplinary courts in place of one disciplinary court. In the first instance, the Supreme Courts, the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court shall be responsible for the proceedings. The Supreme Court is to decide on matters relating to judges determining matters relating to administrative justice, and on matters relating to prosecutors and judicial executors. The Supreme Administrative Court shall then decide on the matters of judges acting solely in a judicial capacity other than that of an administrative court. The consistency of the decisions of the appeal disciplinary courts should be ensured, a joint chamber of the appeal disciplinary courts should be established, which will deal in particular with the unification of the decision. The Supreme Court Chambers of Discipline shall continue to be composed in particular. The Board of Appeal of the Supreme Court shall have six members, three judges from among the judges of the Supreme Courts, the Regional and District Courts and three lawyers who are not judges. The judges and prosecutors shall be a prosecutor, a lawyer and a person engaged in another legal profession. Adjournants in proceedings concerning judicial executors are to be a judicial executor, a lawyer and a person engaged in another legal profession. [[9.10 hours]] The method of selection of members of the Chambers of the Supreme Courts is fundamentally taken from the current legislation. Therefore, representatives of prosecutors, executors, advocacy and academic communities will continue to participate in the selection of members of the Boards of Appeal of the Supreme Courts. The Boards of Appeal are to be composed of three judges of the Court of Appeal, i.e. the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court. The Senate for Unification of Decision-making Practices shall have six members and shall be composed, in par with the Judges of the Boards of Appeal. As regards further amendments, it is necessary to mention, in particular, the introduction of an explicit adaptation of the agreement on guilt and disciplinary action, an equivalent agreement on guilt and punishment, which is now also a new element. However, the agreement will have to be approved by the disciplinary court. An institute of indisputable facts is also to be introduced, so it will not be necessary to carry out evidence of all facts, as well as an adjustment for coordination between the bodies authorised to bring an action. Coordination is intended to help the disciplinary prosecutor, who has the best conditions for the preparation of a disciplinary action, in particular the best knowledge of the case in question, file a complaint. Furthermore, the legislation of the so-called concentration of proceedings can be mentioned, which basically means that the parties to the proceedings will have to state all the relevant facts and propose evidence already in the first instance proceedings. This shall in particular monitor the reduction of the risk of delays in driving. The Government's proposal contains other measures, which are therefore expressly laid down in the various provisions, and the legislation of accession to the disciplinary action. Thank you for your attention, that is probably the introduction of everything and I look forward to discussing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u3	I thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the Government's bill on proceedings in the case of judges, prosecutors and judicial executors. The Government submitted a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies on 19 December 2019. It was sent out as 683 printing. The Organizing Committee recommended him to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee and I think the Minister has already summed up the content of the legislation. I just wanted to draw attention to one fact that the introduction of another degree of disciplinary proceedings, which is in line with the recommendations of GRECO, does not necessarily mean that excesses in the judiciary will be more effectively punished, because the system will then work so that the judge can appeal to the second Senate and then he can file a constitutional complaint with the Constitutional Court. So the controls will be dragged a little longer. The literature of experts, such as David Kosař's work, shows that the introduction of the present system did not lead to dramatic improvement, this was the so-called Pospíšilův Reform, and it is similarly expected that this organizational change will not bring any dramatic improvement in the detection or prosecution of the disciplinary offences of judges. The mere organizational change will probably not have such consequences. However, I think that the proposal needs to be sent to another reading because it implements the GRECO recommendations and there are a number of points that are definitely in place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, and with priority right, I have been given the recognition of Vice-President Okamura, then Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with relatively good news. Several times in the explanatory report, the plaintiff states that the disciplinary proceedings of judges today are inadequate and ineffective. The government's awareness that disciplinary proceedings with judges, prosecutors and executors are inadequate is a shift. Just like the fact that we got out of a point where everyone here convinced us that justice worked great, or that her only problem was driving speed. The worse news is that the shift in the proposed law is really millimeter. Only a really unkissed layman, or a cunning alibi judge, can judge justice only by how time it manages the trial. The problem with justice is that justice and justice are unenforceable in the Czech Republic. Some judges and prosecutors, not to mention executors, have consistently broken laws for decades and manipulated trials without being held accountable. Yes, if a judge gets caught with a bribe or a theft or drunken crash and gets away from an accident, then we'll see some disciplinary action. If a judge manipulates files, if a judge doesn't respect the right to a fair trial and leaves out evidence that proves otherwise what he wants to see, then there's no real chance of calling such a judge to account. Judges and prosecutors who sent people to prison for crimes that never happened, which were not crimes, the Ministry of Justice, or their colleagues apologize for their legal opinion. My opinion of common sense is that the state's attorney is to know first and foremost what is and is not a criminal offence. Period. If after years The Supreme Court will find that what the prosecutor has sued and what his judge friend has condemned has never been a crime, then someone has to be held responsible for the damage caused by the fact that specific people in the system have deliberately interpreted the laws in their own way or simply failed to respect them. I could continue my grievances indefinitely, because we don't have a bigger and more dangerous barn and irresponsible than justice. And I say it with fear that some judges will retaliate against me again. Yes, 30 years after the Velvet Revolution, I'm afraid of judges who don't rule by law, but who they love and who they don't. That's where we've been working lately. And I share the same concern with many other Czech citizens who also do not trust judges after their own experience. It's not a democracy, it's an outrage. And many politicians from other parties are stubbornly defending this system. Democracy is not a threat to the views of the citizens that justice is prosecuting today. Democracy is not threatened by political movements and parties acting in accordance with the law, whatever their opinion. Democracy is threatened by those who have actually taken power into their own hands, and the laws interpret and judge completely in their own way, and the system is unable to call these basically gangsters to any responsibility, because they are the only ones in the whole system of the Czech Republic controlling themselves. It's like mob activity is supposed to be controlled by a disciplinary senate composed of representatives of individual mob clans. We each have a personal responsibility, and although I disagree with the fact that Members are irrevocable, we still have a mandate limited to elections, when at least somehow we have to issue an account from our work and defend our mandate to the citizens. For example, the police are being controlled by the General Inspectors of the Security Corps. Hopefully everyone here knows why it came from. It was created because in the past there were doubts as to whether internal police inspections were neutral enough to save the work of her colleagues and friends. Of course it wasn't, and that's why an independent body was created, which is independent of the police. It is also necessary for an independent body to be created here to save justice's activities. Of course, it is absolutely necessary to limit the mandates of judges to limiting the number of several years when everyone will have to defend their work and ask for confidence again. The irresistibility of anyone is completely misguided and completely undemocratic. Inevitability is a symbol of dictatorship. Who doesn't know, should study both history and something about democracy and political science. [[9.20 hours]] On the contrary, democracy shapes not only elections but also responsibility for those who pay them, i.e. citizens. Because the bearer of power is neither a politician nor a judge, but always a citizen who only lends a part of his power to these representatives. Where a citizen is robbed of his power and must not control it and demand responsibility, there is no way to talk about democracy. Our SPD movement prepares several proposals in the above-mentioned spirit, such as the duty of a prosecutor to sue only crimes that are proven to be criminal. Yes, it seems absurd to put this into the law to me, too, because it should be a matter of course. But in practice, it is a veritably criminal term, because in some cases the prosecutors are chasing innocent people, even though the courts in several instances confirm that the crime has not happened. This not only increases the damage to the victims of judicial crimes, but also increases the damage to the state that pays them for these prosecutors who repeatedly abuse their position and illegally pursue innocent people. The state not only doesn't know how to punish its representatives, but when their rampage crosses the line, they get rid of them, as in the case of Mr. Attorney General Radek Mezlík, planned by kicking the Office of the European Public Prosecutor. If I have internal information on Mr Mezlík, several criminal notifications and requests for disciplinary proceedings have been filed regarding dozens of proven infringements. For several years, this gentleman has prosecuted innocently convicted in the case of Mrs Vitásková, Mrs Schneiderová and others, when even after the court decisions that no crimes have occurred, surrounded and purposefully dragged the end of the trial and is suspected of forging and manipulating evidence. That's the kind of person who's going to represent us in Europe. Instead of going to jail for putting innocent people in jail. People who were liberated by the Supreme Court, who stated that the defendants had not become or were not crimes. It's not normal. And it is possible only because there is no systemic possibility of prosecuting such people today, independently investigating and, if suspected of illegality is confirmed, also impartially judging. This is also the point of our forthcoming draft law on the General Inspection of Justice, which, as an independent body, would assist the State and the victims of judicial crimes to justice. And once again, I will repeat openly that after this speech, I am concerned that I should not also be the victim of some judicial act and revenge just because I want to remedy this unbearable long-term situation in the name of our constituents who are complaining about the current system. The fact that people are afraid to criticize judges and prosecutors in any way in order to not punish them shows that there really is something rotten in our state. And we should all gather courage here in the House and improve the system together and not talk nonsense about any change about judges or prosecutors being a threat to democracy. No one should politicize on this subject, but we should all discuss it together here in the House in the interests of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda in the general debate, respectively in the debate at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, this rather crucial point is relatively without, say, any more fundamental attention. Now we have heard the speech of Vice-President Okamura, who is undoubtedly right in a number of things, or at least towards that truth. At the same time, in my opinion, some of the sentences that have been raised there are completely unacceptable. The whole idea that the courts and judges and prosecutors should judge someone outside of them and that disciplinary proceedings could even be conducted outside the system is, in my opinion, unthinkable and unacceptable. At the same time, we may feel that disciplinary proceedings are not going exactly as we would have imagined. That, in many cases, there is no reason to assume that responsibility. And if it happens, so it's relatively, the punishments are quite mild to, say, benevolent. At the same time, I remember the last reform of the disciplinary proceedings in 2006-2008, which was based on the fact that the two-tier system at the Supreme Courts and the Supreme Court would unite and reduce to a one-stage system that would be across the courts, so it would be based on the Supreme Court, and everyone had a feeling and conviction as to how significantly improved and tightened the disciplinary proceedings would be. After 12 years, we return to the original model that we will say, it will be on the Supreme Courts and there will be an appeal, and now, in a special way, there will be something in the Supreme Administrative Court, something in the Supreme Court, and then there will be a Senate that is supposed to unite it to some extent. I don't think we're going to be able to help each other with a two-stage process, but it will only lead to mitigation again, because if the first stage gives too severe a punishment, the second stage will correct it. To this day, it's like we're having a one-stage drive. It's only true in the Supreme Court. Nevertheless, the number of complaints and successful constitutional complaints to the Constitutional Court was, in my opinion, completely zero. I don't have the numbers in front of me, but he was very close to zero. The problem is not in proceedings before disciplinary courts. The problem is, we don't have enough props. Even there, the situation has changed many times over the past 15 years. There was entry, entry and the Ombudsman allowed in the case of judicial officials, in the case of delays and inactions, but the fundamental problem is that the Ministry of Justice in this regard - and now, in fact, no matter who the minister is, it is not my fault against the present minister, but rather against all ministers in the long term - the Ministry of Justice does not do so effectively in matters of disciplinary proceedings, both in relation to judges, and perhaps even more fatally in relation to prosecutors. There's no one in that system. How it is possible that there has been no disciplinary action with the Olomouc party for the actions they have committed over the last five years is completely incomprehensible to me. If they were able to demolish the government here to make it one big nothing in the end. There was no disciplinary action. So, in my opinion, it's probably right to refer this press to the constitutionally-legal committee. But our task will be to think about how more effectively to make disciplinary proposals from the party, and there I think that the power is and is right, by the power of the executive against the excesses that remain in the judicial part. Of course, the assessment of the excesses must remain on the judiciary itself, but the proposals can go from executive power and must go in a much more efficient way. In my opinion, the idea that we will improve something and that the public will be more satisfied if we have two-stage management is naive. We've had it here before and we've experienced it, and it hasn't had any higher efficiency. So to make a promise that I will make a two-step trial, that there will be a first degree in the Supreme Courts, and a second to the highest, on behalf of questions where there is still discussion about whether the Supreme Courts have anything to do in the system, if it would not be best to simplify the system only to the three-stage ones, this step seems to me to be a rather reverse step. So I do not propose rejection, nor do I propose a return to recast, because I am aware that the return to recast at this time means saying that we will no longer be dealing with this during this parliamentary term. But I am not at all sure that we are able to prepare a proposal for the House before the second reading, which would somehow be dramatically more effective than the current situation, because the Ministry of Justice and the Government as a whole have more or less fallen in love with the model of a two-stage disciplinary procedure according to the recommendations of GRECO. I am, of course, happy for the recommendations made by GRECO, but I think they are people who come from different parts of Europe, far from understanding the situation in the Czech Republic, far from understanding the problems that arise here. The problem is not really one- or two-stage disciplinary proceedings, but a problem of lack of disciplinary proposals or, respectively, a lack of genuinely qualified disciplinary proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Grospič is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I think I will be quite brief and speak in the spirit of my previous speakers. This means that I also do not have ambition - although I should have a great ambition - to propose this law back to recast, or even to reject, because I think that these attempts to make a fundamental judicial reform, to change the system of courts, and I do not hide that it was also one of the proposals that went from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, there were many. But the question of how the courts operate, how much they function, how much the Supreme Court performs its role in terms of unifying the caselaw, how much back-control and disciplinary proceedings are taking place here at all. And then here comes the question that my previous speaker spoke about, to what extent the disciplinary proceedings are currently being applied and even the disciplinary sanctions against prosecutors. I have witnessed in one of the proceedings which I have been charged with here because of your will of the Chamber of Deputies, where it has finally proved fully - and they have been exempted in the whole case as representatives of one city - that the prosecutor concerned, who has made this accusation, has in the end actually received his career progress, or quite the opposite, rather than having a disciplinary procedure put in place with it and was held responsible for causing harm and perhaps even for some long-term delays, when they saw that they were actually potentially evolved. In this situation, I think that this law, and I will not hinder his release to first reading, sets something very dangerous here. The Czech Republic will easily change from the Republic of Parliament with limited powers directly elected by the President to the Republic of Justice, a Republic where the balance of power of executive, legislative and judicial will not be maintained, but will slowly begin to exceed the power of judicial. Worse still, the power of prosecutors, which is still a part of the executive law, is subject to the government, has its principles, must not, of course, intervene in it spontaneously, must also be governed by the law of the Czech Republic, meaning constitutional laws, laws and other legislation, but is essentially untouchable and as untouchable acts and influences and significantly interferes with the events in the Czech Republic. If I wanted to be such a prophet, I once expressed this concern on the Constitutional and Legal Committee here in the House, when a new criminal code was adopted, or an amendment to the Criminal Code. And that's where I said, if the criteria for assessing criminal activity change and the material character gets out, not completely, but the formal criterion gets put forward before it, then we're going to get into a situation where, in fact, the law enforcement authorities are going to do whatever anonymous announcements they're going to do, any assumption that they're going to come up with, but they're not going to even deal with whether the deed has become, whether it's filled with some social hazard and whether it should be judged by law enforcement authorities, and whether it's whether or not it's going to go to the courts now. I think that in the size of the Czech Republic, although I was also a fan of simplifying the judicial system to a three-stage level, I understand the issue of the size of district courts, which is very uneven, the size of individual districts and regions that do not fully cover the idea of activity, and yet they are preserved and they work here as a certain relic of the past, so I think that the bill is simply not the happiest. And unfortunately, he will be followed by what you are witnessing in a number of other laws. For example, the building law you have received contains many hundred pages of press, and it is already announced by the relevant ministry that a completely new building law will be passed than the one we received and will be called a comprehensive amendment. And something similar is happening in the Enforcement Act, in the Civil Procedure Code. And that's not right. These should be standards which, not that Members could not enter as members of the legislature with their partial amendments, but should not be built on the principle that they quickly submit to the Chamber of Deputies and, in parallel to that, a comprehensive amendment is already being made to the ministries, which one of the government Members or opposition Members does not care, simply adopt, submit it here, and it will actually be discussed and amendments will be tabled to it. [[Nesroz.]] I think that this is undignified and does not even fulfil the fundamental role of representative democracy and the functioning of the democratic parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. The plaintiff? [[No.]] It's not like that. The rapporteur? [[No.]] He's not interested either. The motion to return or refuse has not been made. We will therefore deal with the commandments of the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. Then I will call my colleagues from the lobby and vote on the guarantee committee to which the committee is to be constitutionally-legal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Who's against it? Voting number 3, 92 Members registered, 78, against no one. [[There's 79 on the board.]] The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this press to another committee other than a guarantee committee. Is there any other suggestion? I don't see anyone. So there was no motion to shorten or extend the deadline, and I can stop... Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u12	I just made one comment. I am not proposing an extension of the deadline, but I am also saying that this is a material which must be discussed with the participation of both courts and prosecutors. At least the Supreme Administrative Court... we had to cancel our traditional trip to Brno twice this year due to the coronavirus situation. But if conditions don't loosen up so that we can start acting normally, then I just won't let this go into the Chamber of Deputies. I'm being very clear about that. We can't discuss this in some distance mode. So if the government's measures continue, we'll have to wait some more time with the press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-001-001.u13	So many final statements on this matter. I'm ending the first reading of this press. Thank you all, we will continue. Opening point number
