ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended, and other related laws /house printing 567/ - first reading Under the authority of the government, the press will state the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is presenting a bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws. Next thing I know, I'm just gonna use the words "budgetary rules." In addition to the amendment to that Act, the draft contains amendments to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, the Act on Agriculture, the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation from Public Means, the Act on Foreign Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid, the Service Act and the Act on the Register of Contracts. [[Restlessness and noise persist in the courtroom.]] The Budgetary Rules Act proposes: 1. In particular, specify the authorisation to issue the Order on budgetary composition; 2. extend the budgetary system of programming funding to register non-investment subsidies and return financial assistance provided from the state budget, thus uniting the records of all subsidies in one place within one system managed by the Ministry of Finance; 3. laying down the obligation to commit appropriations to salaries in the organisational units of the State for vacant posts. The basic idea of the proposed measure is that the vacancy does not require the need for the same budgetary security as the seat occupied. As part of the effort to save the expenditure of the State budget, it is proposed to commit appropriations to salaries and related expenditure in the event that the post is free all calendar days in the calendar month. However, the first month when the seat is vacant shall not be binding; 4. anchoring the use of a surplus of the State budget to reduce state debt. This means that, should the state budget end up in surplus, it is proposed to make clear that this surplus will be used to reduce the government debt. State debt must be kept within reasonable limits and every opportunity must be used to reduce it. As regards the deficit of the State budget, the procedures for its reimbursement do not change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you. It's really loud in here. I've already been alerted by Members here. So I'm gonna ask you to calm down so the secretary can express herself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. 5. a reduction in the penalty for late payment for breach of budgetary discipline from 1 perm daily to 0.4 perm daily. To date, the penalty is set at 1 per cent of the amount of the levy for each day on late payment, which in some cases is too heavy a burden for those who have violated budgetary discipline. It is therefore now proposed to reduce the periodic penalty payment to 0,4 per mile of the amount of the levy for each day of late payment. The periodic penalty payment thus provided will fulfil its penalty function without being overly burdensome and, where appropriate, winding-up against the infringer. In addition, a large proportion of the periodic penalty payments are currently being waived; [[10.00 hours]] 6. specifying the payment of the withdrawal of the subsidy or the refundable financial assistance; 7. refinement of the provisions relating to the management of sovereign debt. This is a supplement to Section 36, which clearly defines the methodology for reporting the koruna amount of sovereign debt denominated in foreign currencies, stressing that the koruna value of the sovereign debt with which the remuneration of the nominal value or principal of financial derivatives secured through financial derivatives must take into account the contractual exchange rate; 8. supplementing the National Fund adjustment. In addition to the funds already listed in the law, the National Fund and the European Union Solidarity Fund are the funds. The European Union Solidarity Fund is amended by Council Regulation No 212/2002 of 11 November 2002 establishing the European Union Solidarity Fund. As regards the granting of subsidies from the National Fund, it proposes to apply to this provision as well as to all provisions relating to the granting of subsidies from the State budget. It is also proposed to anchor the correct designation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. As regards the regulation of the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, this is Law No. 250/2000 Coll., follows this amendment to clarify the authorisation to issue a decree on budgetary composition and also reduces the penalty for late payment for breach of budgetary discipline, as well as in budgetary rules. Furthermore, legislative technical changes are made in this law. The amendments to the Act on Agriculture, the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation from Public Means and the Foreign Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid Act are submitted to ensure that subsidies and return financial assistance from the State budget provided under them are managed in a cost-effective way in the budgetary system of programming financing. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] The proposed amendment to the Civil Service Act aims to simplify the discussion of changes to the systemization during the year and follows up with the proposed obligation to bind State budget resources to salaries for vacant posts in the organisational units of the State. The proposed amendment to the Act on the Register of Contracts is only technical in nature and aims to refer to the correct provisions of the budgetary rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u5	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance for her opening words. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa, to present this news report and, at the same time, before I give you the floor, Madame, I will ask the House once again for peace. So far, I have an application from place to place for debate, which I'm registering, so if anybody wants to sign up, I'm pointing out again that the electronic application comes first. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u6	Mr Vice-President, Madam Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, members of the government, colleagues, what else can I add to the comprehensive presentation of this government proposal, as the Minister of Finance has said here? I will allow myself to express more comprehensively in my intelligence report. The government's proposed draft is quite extensive in scope. A total of seven existing laws are proposed in addition to Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules - by the way, if I counted correctly, it has been 66th amendment of this law since 2000 - further amendments to Act No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, Act No. 132/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research and experimental development and innovation, Act No. 151/2010 Coll., on external development cooperation and humanitarian aid provided abroad, Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, and finally Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on the register of contracts. The most important changes to this summary of amendments include the refinement of the authorisation to issue a decree on budgetary composition, the adjustment of programming funding, the change of commitment to salaries and related appropriations for vacant posts in the State's organisational units and the modification of the Ministry of Finance's authorisation to receive data on recipients of funds from the state budget and other legislative technical adjustments. All these things are regulated by law, and thus the changes to legislation cannot be achieved otherwise than by amending the law. Therefore, the basically extensive amendment of a total of seven laws. The most important and also the most extensive are the amendments in the Budgetary Rules Act, but the Minister has described it correctly here, so I will no longer stop there. As rapporteur, I am not aware of any problematic elements of the submitted government proposal, except, perhaps, Law No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules designed to delete the need for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies with the use of funds generated in the past from the results of budgetary management and concentrated on a special account of state financial assets. However, I think this is rather a subject for the budget committee, where we will certainly be dealing with this. So the brief intelligence report has so much, and as rapporteur, I do not think that this press should be assigned to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that this is a press that looks good and belongs to the Committee on Budgets right now. So I will not propose any other committee or possibly support the inclusion in another committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her intelligence report. I am opening the debate and I have one application in it so far, Mr Ferjenčík, to whom I will give the floor. I can hardly record the factual remark made by my colleague, Mr Bělobrádek, because the debate is not yet underway, but, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we have several reservations about this proposal. The first is that unfortunately, the proposal is not more ambitious in an attempt to transparentize the state budget. We would welcome, for example, a clicking budget. But now for what's in the proposal. I'm worried about the unintended consequences of this motion to impose on the staff. He's the one who looks really good about this proposal that if the office doesn't have seats, then he's not going to spend the money, but when we introduce a rule that if he has vacant seats, then he's going to lose the money, so it's also going to make the office occupied at all costs, and it's not necessarily for the benefit of the cause. It works in practice so that, for example, part of the salary will eventually remain for the other employees, so, for example, if he recruits low-skilled employees who will not expect high rewards, then he will have the opportunity to finance the remuneration of those less qualified employees. So paradoxically, this proposal can lead to an increase in the cost of the state budget, an increase in the cost of the state and an increase in the number of civil servants. So I think it deserves a more thorough debate. I was told directly by a government official that, unfortunately, this phenomenon will start to happen in his opinion, and in some areas it is already happening today that it is precisely because of the concern that the budget will not be reduced, that these places will be occupied at all costs. On the contrary, I think that the better way would be to determine how much money is needed to secure a certain agenda, and then to give those authorities greater freedom in how they will reward their people. I think it would lead to better results. This is one problematic thing. Another problematic issue is the amendment point 54, which allows outsourcing of what the Ministry is doing today to private business entities. As the government declares that it does not agree with outsourcing and tries to limit it, I think it is unfortunate to introduce a paragraph here, which allows the state to opt out part of its agenda to private companies. Yes, I'm aware there are limitations, but it's a change towards greater outsourcing possibilities. [[10.10 hours]] The President of the Committee on Budgets has already mentioned a problematic passage concerning the limitation of the powers of the Chamber of Deputies. So I will go to the most problematic passage for us, and that is the opening of the Civil Service Act, which I honestly do not think was necessary at all in this press, and the introduction of other changes to the systemization so that the systemization in the agenda part is done only with the mandate of the Ministry of the Interior in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, which means that it will not be controllable in eKLEP, so the possibility of opposition control of the functioning of the government is being hacked, and that is whether the systemization is actually happening purposefully because of some uncomfortable persons. For these reasons, I propose that this press be returned for processing. In the event that this proposal is not adopted, I propose an extension of the time limits by 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u9	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Before I give the floor to Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Within 12 hours, Mr Marian Jurečka apologizes. Now, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, two comments. One for the Vice Prime Minister's performance. I believe that the committee should really focus well on the proposal that state budget surpluses should only be put on debt. I understand that, of course. On the other hand, I think that in some cases it is good to keep your hands free, for example, if there is an opportunity to invest in an area that will generate long-term profits and which will be strategic. I don't know if it should be that strict. But that's a matter for the debate, and I just want to point it out. And the other thing. I agree with Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President, but I am not quite sure that this is possible with the tables. I totally agree, a more free management management like you could do in companies would certainly be good, say, here you have the amount of resources that we think would be good to process the functions, and you're already wondering if you're going to find one executive for a higher salary or less. But I'm afraid that's not technically possible in the public administration. If so, I'm sure I'm ready to talk about it, because I find it much more flexible and logical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u11	I thank Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u12	Thank you for the floor. Only in response to my colleague Bělobrádek will I clarify exactly what I had in mind. My point was that the proposal put forward by the Minister really revolutionizes the system for the remuneration of civil servants. It introduces the principle that if the office is not occupied, it loses money if there are no tables occupied above any border. I think it is appropriate to discuss how the remuneration of civil servants is to take place. It's time to talk about how to make some savings. However, I would consider it a better path than this proposed by the Minister, for example, that the table salaries will be only legal minimum and that the manager will be able to adjust the structure of the remuneration in the workplace to better match the work load. I think the moment we're doing some sort of systemic change here that goes against exactly this, I wanted to point that out. I am aware that this, of course, has another legislative context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Votava's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, this material will certainly be subject to a thorough discussion in the Committee on Budgets, because there are a number of things that can be discussed there. But there is only one thing I would like to support, and that is basically what my colleague Bělobrádek said. I do not know, therefore, whether it is really necessary and meaningful for us to bind the use of the surplus of the state budget only and only to the reduction of the state debt. Of course, reducing government debt is necessary, no one is questioning that. But to limit the use of surplus only and only to reduce state debt, I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u15	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We have one more factual point, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. And before I give you my word, I will ask the House once again for peace. If you are discussing anything other than budgetary rules, it is crucially in the lobby, my fellow Members. We'll wait a little longer. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u16	Thank you. Just a brief response to Mr Bělobrádek's speech and to Mr Votava. Maybe this discussion would have its meaning in 2015. She's purely academic now. In view of the projected development of the economy and given government's budgetary policy, there is really no surplus in recent years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I am of the opinion that I have no application for a debate. No one's checking in from the scene. I'm asking for final words. Yes, Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u18	Thank you for the floor. I will respond first to comments on the binding of places. Ambassador, that's been going on for two years. And much more strictly than this amendment provides. Since this is happening within the framework of budgetary policy, the Budget Act, whether for 2019, 2020, I basically attach funds to vacant posts, and those ministries don't have them. I introduced this as a measure that essentially brought about about 3 billion in the budget in 2019 and for 2020 combined with a reduction of about 2.5, around 2.7 billion. So it's a measure that's much tougher today. But I don't want it to be just a question of annual budget negotiations, because ministers are changing, governments are changing. I would like this rule to be in budgetary rules once and for all and simply bind all future ministers, unless, of course, the adjustment has changed. And the adjustment is built so... a lot of the suggestions you've made here aren't possible. It is not possible to set a minimum tariff and maximum personal... We have the Civil Service Act. This is related to the remuneration law. You've even admitted it has another legislative convention. So to be fair, I admit it. I'm sure it wouldn't even work. Remember this year's battle for teachers' salaries. There were arguments, if just 8 percent, 2 percent. So that would also be a huge theme for tripartite. So I see such legislative changes as unrealistic. But I see it as real, and I'm going to explain it, there's just no way they're going to occupy at any cost. The person who told you didn't tell you exactly. Maybe it's better to talk to some state secretary or Mr. Postránecký. Each of these systems has prescribed parameters, i.e. education, other requirements, certain classes etc. It's not possible to occupy someone who's just unqualified. And this is the pressure on the resorts. They don't have to fill it in those two months. Of course. But the money starts in the second month - I'm stressing it with the exception of incapacity for work, which we removed. We're not gonna punish someone who's been sick for a long time or on maternity leave. That's out of the question. Let's just tie up. And we don't tie them all in volume, but we're going to tie them at the level of the first tariff grade of that grade. And it's just some kind of motivation. It's just some kind of savings you call for, I hear it here at every budget meeting. And I want it to be in the budget rules. And I consider this absolutely crucial and revolutionary for me. And I don't want to argue about it every year when I draw up a budget. [[Big noise in the hall.]] So it's not in the whole volume. And it's motivation because there were ministries in the past... Take it, it hasn't bothered anyone for years. Whoever the minister was, it didn't bother anyone that they were giving money for vacant jobs. And I just want them, too, to be under some pressure to try to occupy those seats because they were resorts that deliberately didn't occupy the seats and they were saving the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u19	Madam Vice-President of the Government, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace! There's a lot of noise here, and we're in the closing words of the petitioner and, if necessary, the rapporteur, we're going to make a decision. If you really are discussing something else - in the foyer! Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u20	So, on the contrary, I expected commendation from the opposition for this provision. With regard to the use of surplus for anything other than the reduction of government debt, the debate is so smiling. I remember the Prime Minister, when he was Minister of Finance, telling me that it was still being discussed in the last government, whether to use it on it, on it. The debate, of course, is virtual. The surplus at a time when it is decided, so there is a shift in time and use to reduce the government's debt, I think, is very important. We've had surpluses and a balanced budget for several years now. And you may have noticed, interestingly, that this is something that has been kept silent - President Kalousek - Eurostat issued statistics this week, I have this on my twitter, where he said that the fourth lowest state debt in the EU belongs to the Czech Republic. So that's what I'd like to remind you of. I don't remember when the Czech Republic would have such economic results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u21	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. If this is not the case, then before we go to the next one, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, between 10.20 and 12.00 for working reasons, Mr Julius Špičák apologizes. Now we will, because there was no motion to return or reject, decide on the commandment. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will take a vote on the 86 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment. [[Testimonials from the benches.]] So I declare vote 86 misguided. I will therefore ask for clarification from the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u22	Yes, Mr Vice-President. Two proposals were made in the debate, namely a proposal for revision, and then, if this proposal had not been approved by the Chamber of Deputies, we would have voted on another proposal, which is an extension of the deadline by 20 days. These two proposals were made in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u23	I'm picking up the extension, but it's not until after the commandment. Okay. In that case, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. I'm going to ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. We will vote in the vote number 87 on the recovery of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I've started voting 87 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 87, out of 150 for 63, against 69. The motion was denied. So we're going to vote on the commandment. I repeat that the Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. I didn't receive any proposal for another guarantee committee. We will decide in the vote number 88, which I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 88, of the 152 Members present for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. My colleague Ferjenčík reporting. What committee do you propose, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u24	Thank you for the floor. Since the proposal concerns the budgets of the local authorities and, moreover, the service law is being opened, I propose a committee on the public administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-004-021.u25	Okay. Anyone else? That's all we have to suggest. We will decide on the motion for a commandment from the Public Administration Committee in voting number 89, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 89, out of 152 present for 68, against 35. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the extension of the 20-day time limit, in the 90-day vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 90, 154 for 71 Members present, against 52. Nor has this proposal been adopted. I am of the opinion that we have ordered the committee to be a committee of budget as a committee of guarantee. The other committee was not ordered and the time limit for the hearing remained in accordance with the law of 60 days. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish with point 21. We'll continue with point number
