ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u1	5. Proposal for a law amending certain laws in the field of business regulation in the financial market /public press 398/5 - returned by the Senate First of all, there is a need to vote on the presence of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, in discussing this point and on paragraphs 219, 220 and 221 at the 41st meeting, if I could therefore adopt this proposal. We will therefore vote on whether we agree with the Governor's presence in discussing the points that I have just mentioned. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 64, registered is 159 Members, for 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. I, therefore, open point 5, the bill amending certain laws in the field of business regulation in the financial market, the House press 398/5, returned to the Senate. The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as Parliamentary Press 398/6. Information on the amendments has been sent to your mail. I welcome Senator Vilímec, who is already entering the door. Madam Secretary has already taken her place at the rapporteur's table. First of all, I would ask that Senator Vladislav Vilímec take the floor. Please, Senator. I am warning all the Members of Parliament and the honourable Member that I have already opened paragraph 5, and I am asking for peace. If anyone has something to discuss, let them go to the lobby. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u2	Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u3	One more time, please, quiet in the room. I hope I'm not asking too much of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u4	Madam and Members of Parliament, I originally expected the Minister to be the first to speak, but somehow I got it wrong. I have a feeling it used to be that way, but I'm glad I can get off first. So, ladies and gentlemen, by the Senate resolution of the 15th meeting held on 30 January 2020, I was charged with the justification for the amendments adopted by the Senate in connection with the return of the bill amending certain laws on business regulation in the financial market. The draft law itself, according to the House's press 398, was submitted with the primary aim of adapting the legal order of the Czech Republic to the directly applicable legislation of the European Union by a regulation on the so-called prospectus. The text finally referred to the Senate from the Chamber of Deputies, beyond that mandatory adaptation, changes the scope of the obligation to retain records and documents by telephone and electronic communication in Section 17 of the Capital Market Business Act. I note that such an ambition - and the Minister will certainly confirm it to me - was initially not available to the petitioner, the Ministry of Finance, and the extension of the scope of records and the retention of telephone and electronic communications of the securities trader was based on the comments made by the Czech National Bank. The Senate and, before that, the Guarantee Committee, the Senate Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport, have devoted very closely to this very serious topic. Representatives of the Czech National Bank who were present at committee meetings did not speak, but then Mr Vice-Governor Tomáš Nidetzký, on behalf of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, turned to the Chairman of the Guarantee Committee on the amendments to the rules for the storage of electronic and telephone communications. The Vice-Governor also spoke at the Senate plenary meeting - the Minister was there too - and was given sufficient room to express his position. I would like to assure you, honourable Members, that the Senate has consistently based itself on the requirements of the relevant directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council of MiFID II for the area. At the same time, it also respected the principles of proportionality and proportionality, and it is appropriate to save the purpose for which such records are made by telephone and electronic communication. In the vote to return the bill, the senators made it clear that, in keeping communications records, including telephone calls, if they are not - and I underline this - for the purpose of providing an investment service, it is a serious and, in my view, an unauthorized intervention into the privacy of the clients themselves. 56 senators voted to return the bill, and I point out and point out again, out of all Senatorial clubs without exception. Thus, both those whose members are representatives of the opposition and those whose members are representatives of the government coalition. The purpose of the Senate's amendment is to exclude the retention of recordings of telephone calls and electronic communications records relating to securities traders with customers, unless they are and have never been intended to provide investment services involving the receipt, transmission or execution of customer instructions, whether subsequently the transaction has been concluded or the conclusion of the transaction has not taken place at all. So when I heard media reports about the Senate's request to rule out or, respectively, limit the retention of telephone and electronic communications only to situations where trade took place, that is not the case. The Senate says yes, if an investment service is provided, let telephone calls be recorded according to the requirements of the relevant directive, whether the transaction has taken place or not. But not calls of a private nature or such calls or such electronic communications that were not intended to close a trade. The Czech National Bank, which advocated the possibility of re-keeping and recording all telephone calls, also argued in the speech of the Vice-Governor to the Senate that the obligation to record and store all communications was already here before 3 January 2018, i.e. before the amendment of Act No. 204/2017 Coll. Because I'm the kind of guy who always checks everything out, and if I don't read it, I don't really have that much to say about things, so I read the wording of that section 17 before that year 2017. However, this text was conceived in a completely different way and there was no specific mention of recording phone calls before or in the law. The obligation to record communications using a telephone line contained a decree implementing the law, but this obligation did not apply to all investment services and in addition it had to be a specific device for communication, including a specifically designated telephone line and an address for electronic communication. It should be pointed out that such arguments that it has already been recorded and preserved in the past can hardly be relevant and found convincing. The fact that something has happened here in the past, and perhaps even in the present, without any clear legal definition, cannot be accepted, in my view. In addition, recording all calls, including some personal information, cannot even solve many times the problem mentioned by the Minister in the Senate, with the so-called scumbags, because these scumbags stand completely outside the regulation of investment services. On the contrary, the professional political debate conducted on this issue of application of Section 17 of the relevant law has rather highlighted the need for existing vague and unclear provisions to clearly clarify and set rules that will guarantee that these records are not kept in a situation where communication with the aim of not providing the investment service at all is involved. I would also like to point out that the arguments that I have sometimes noted are in the alleged interest of the consumer to increase the scope of the record retention are clearly opposed - and now I will read them all - to the expert associations of investment service providers such as the Czech Association of Financial Advisory and Mediation Companies or the Association for the Capital Market, but also the Association of Czech Consumers, which fear the risk of unauthorized intervention in the privacy of clients themselves where this is not appropriate. The Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic also strongly opposed it. [[14.30 hours]] According to the report on the impact of regulation on the amendment to the Capital Market Business Act, the so-called RIA report prepared by the Ministry of Finance, the annual costs associated with the compulsory recording of all calls and, above all, the retention of all calls for a medium-sized company would mean an increase in annual costs of almost CZK 4 million per year and an amount of more than CZK half a million for small companies. While the increased costs are rather secondary to the necessary protection of privacy, it is evident that such a change would not even be cost-neutral for securities traders. The Office for Personal Data Protection also disagrees with the record retention, and this is some authority in this area, as it follows from the statement of its spokesperson. The Office also pointed out the draft law on this point. It is now up to you Members whether all telephone calls and, where appropriate, all electronic communications will be kept in this area, whether the state will allow this way to enter the privacy of citizens without authorisation. Apart from the Czech National Bank, no one advocated such a change. And at the Czech National Bank, and the Governor will surely forgive me, I feel that it is a bit of a struggle for the prestige of the Czech National Bank, perhaps also for the personal prestige of some members of the Bank Board. But in this case, the prestige of the Czech National Bank or some people is not appropriate. It is appropriate to protect clients and respect their privacy, where any unauthorised interference cannot be positively reflected in the cross-border provision of these services in the European Union, the less into the activities and practices of companies from third countries. We often refer to further regulations and obligations on European Union legislation. Here, the relevant directives do not require such a thing, and the Senate's proposed amendments are fully in line with European legislation. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will also stand in particular on the part of citizens, customers and honest providers of investment services when voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u5	I thank you, Senator, and I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly reiterate that the reason for submitting this bill is, in particular, the need to adapt the legal order to the European Union regulation on the prospectus. This adjustment should therefore be deleted from the Capital Market Business Act and some other necessary changes should be made to it. This amendment also amends the distribution of supplementary pension savings. The issue of insolvency of entities without legal personality is also discussed and it is also proposed to make a number of other minor changes in the Bond Act and in the Investment Companies and Investment Funds Act. The Senate has returned the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment that should release the obligation to record all telephone calls made by a securities trader concerning the provision of investment services. However, I do not agree with this amendment. Protection of privacy and protection of customers against unfair practices are two values that we have measured very carefully. However, we know from practice that some providers of investment services use practices that harm customers. This concerns, in particular, the provision of telephone advice. It is therefore important that the obligation to record calls relate not only to calls where orders are transmitted but to all calls relating to the provision of investment services. A recorded phone call can convict such traders of wrongdoing. That is why it is an important tool of supervision. The recording will take place on lines reserved for the provision of investment services and should definitely not be recorded by private calls, no way. After all, in the market, the practice of recording calls with clients in order to control workers and to improve the quality of services is quite common. It is true that European law does not require recording of all calls relating to the provision of investment services, but does not rule that out either. In this respect, we therefore have the possibility to introduce stricter rules than those required by the European directives. Personally, I consider privacy to be very important, but I believe that in cases where we know about unfair practices, and we know about them only because of recorded calls, the interest in protecting customers should prevail. Therefore, I also ask you to support the House version. I thought about it very much, I considered it very much, we discussed it with the Governor, who, I suppose, will get the floor after me, you approved it to defend it, because it was mainly him and the Czech National Bank, who demanded this legislation, which notabene was part of our legal order until 2018. It's protection against scumbags, against all those who abuse people who simply try to convince them of the products on which they lose, and it can have fatal consequences for them. If the Czech National Bank is to effectively protect all of our citizens who get into the hands of these bastards, then they must have the option, they must have proof of how to exercise their control and surveillance activities. And this can only be given by recording all these calls that these different financial advisors and others will make with customers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u7	Thank you. I am still asking if Mr Řehounek is interested in commenting on the proposals submitted by the Senate, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Budgets. Are you interested in a performance? He doesn't. So I am opening the debate, and Governor Jiří Rusnok was the first to enter the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak to this returned proposal from the Senate. The Senate, in its amendment, is therefore seeking to release the possibility of recording phone calls from clients with investment advisors. From the point of view of the Czech National Bank and its key tasks, this means taking care of the safe functioning of the financial market, i.e. protecting the interests of investors and consumers, this is a fundamental matter, and I would therefore like to stress that we fully support the government proposal originally approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 27 November last year. This means that the legislation, as the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance have already mentioned, should restore the rules for recording telephone calls to the form that was in force here from 2004 to January 2018 and which contained a general requirement for recording calls on telephone lines intended for the provision of investment services. There are many myths about this, especially media and apparently lobbyist myths. Let us leave aside the recording of a specific investment order itself, that is clear, but before submitting the order by the client, which will take place possibly by phone, there is always a business story. And only on the basis of that story does the client decide for a certain investment, and this is often the most important part of the whole matter, which we can then possibly look back on. [[14.40 hours]] So myth number one is that this novel here introduces recording calls, it's not true. In fact, the novel is trying to preserve it, because calls have been recorded in full since 2004. The second myth is related to this, which means that the advisors will increase their costs. Nay, they will not grow, because they already had this obligation, virtually. they have, so those costs have been spent one time long ago, not to mention that the costs of these matters with technological progress are, of course, falling significantly. When it comes to another myth that sensitive information will be recorded, the aim of the recording is a business story that is sold to clients. This isn't about whether the wife is healthy or not. The point is, the client is talking to the counselor about how to invest. And that's happening, of course, in the context of some sort of relationship between the counselor and the client. However, the purpose of the record is to have the record of the decision, the order, and what led to it. If the client doesn't want to talk to the counselor on the phone, he doesn't want to be recorded, so he can do this at any time. He can always tell the counselor: Mr. Counselor, or Mr. XY, please, we'll do it together, come to me, come to work, come to my house, to the coffee shop, we'll face it to face, we'll make a brief record that I asked you to do this and that order, and everything's fine. So there's no need to be recorded, who doesn't want it, whenever he can say, "We'll do it verbally." And I have to say, personally, that's what I recommend to clients if they ask me. It's always better. On the contrary, the amendment to the Senate repeals the long-term standard, which in the end, if something bad happens, is the only way to enforce any damages. And that is what is going on here, honourable Members. The main objective of the party, which in return, I mean the interest groups that lobby for this, i.e. distributors and investment advisors who seem to have succeeded with their activities in the Senate, because it is to secure a larger investment eldorado, something that has already been here for example. until recently in the case of investment life insurance. Today, although consultants no longer have purple jackets and moccasins with pompoms, unfortunately neither the courage to visit personally and in the face to convince the client, they prefer to hide anonymously behind the phone's earpiece. On the other hand, it is also true that clients themselves often fall victim to their own greed and naiveness. However, in terms of the development and reputation of the capital market, the adoption of the Senate amendment would be a significant step backwards, which will harm both clients and honest financial advisors. I am therefore going to ask you not to support the Senate's proposed text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u9	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the debate. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the Governor, instead of using rational arguments, he has identified the upper chamber as a whole as people who are going to hand in some shady business. I just want to remind you that we discussed the similar amendment in the Committee on Budgets, where everyone, I think, supported it, except one, across the political spectrum. That was also the recommendation of the Budget Committee before the third reading. Yes, I think the Minister has opposed it only for politically prestigious reasons, because imagine if we changed the government's bill! What's going on? The governor is wrong when he says that by recording everything, we'll protect more clients. Even in the dictum recommended by the Senate, it is actually said that recordings will be all trades that will lead to or may lead to the conclusion of a particular trade. Perhaps, Mr. Governor, you could tell us, for example, how many complaints there were in a calendar year and what the number of transactions was when we compared it. We see another intervention by the Czech National Bank, which is increasingly dictating us, and unfortunately the weak Ministry of Finance is meeting it, what other powers it wants to impose and what other regulations it wants to introduce. When we are at point 221 - inflation, let us ask the governor how the Czech National Bank is unable to meet its inflation targets. Not even in the tolerance zone. If the most recent information today is that inflation is 3.7 %, then I would like to remind you that the inflation target of the Czech National Bank is 2 percent. We're almost 100 percent off. The tolerance zone is plus minus 1 %, i.e. 1,0 to 3,0. We're already seven tenths up here. Instead of paying attention to the Czech National Bank, it comes with other and other proposals. And let us remember a rather sharp debate about the new powers of the Czech National Bank concerning mortgage loans. I look forward to the debate on point 221, because such high inflation means that nominal growth in pensions does not have as positive effects as such. The House thought that it had voted unanimously. Likewise, inflation will bite off part of real wages to those who arrange higher wages or higher salaries. So I reject the interpretation that anyone who doesn't support impenetrable recording somehow supports unfair business. That's not true at all. And if - if I have good news from the Senate, and if my colleague Vilímec completes me, then if it wasn't for your colleague's performance, maybe the Senate's decision wasn't so clear. After being so confused there, he actually increased the number of senators who voted in favour of the specific amendment because he was unable to defend the position of the Czech National Bank, which was reflected in the opinion of the Minister of Finance, in a credible manner in the debate. I don't know if the Secretary of State in the Senate was present or not, I didn't find out. However, from among our senators, the interpretation of the Bank Board member's speech came out this way, as I told you openly about the microphone at the moment. And again, instead of rationally debating the difference between recording all the cases that will lead to or may lead to trade, and the impeccable recording, the governor, the opponents of this position are labeled smah as those who support unfair trades and maybe no longer have purple jackets and moccasins, as you said, Governor. This is not a fair and professional debate - we are going back to the political debate again. Come back to politics, and then we can tease each other like this, that's totally cool, that's normal. But as the Czech National Bank, as governor, you should act professionally, impartially and not label your opponents with such simple rhetoric. I mean, our club will support the motion that came from the Senate. Just as we voted for him in the Committee on Budgets. And if you are interested, in a moment I am able to find out who was involved in this particular budget committee, and the vast majority of the government Members answered the rational arguments of that amendment, or today the amendment with which the Senate returned it to us. So, on the contrary, I ask you to vote in favour of the version that the Senate has returned to us in order to maintain adequate privacy, protection of personal data, but also good client protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u11	Thank you. I'm asking who else is interested in speaking on this point. Mr. Senator Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u12	Madam, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, I have only a small remark or a few comments on the speech of the Governor, but also of the Minister. The Minister has confirmed that we want to be tougher than the European Union demands. And that's what we are today. Perhaps it should also be said in this area that the Czech National Bank can use so-called. a derogation from the directive and keep records for seven years when the general time limit applicable in that directive is five years. That means we are tougher at the moment than what the European directives require. [[14.50 hours]] And another myth: The Senate does not propose any change compared to the current state. And if I've noticed - and I don't want to have a debate with the governor - that all calls are being recorded at the moment, it's not in accordance with the law. And I'm pretty worried about it. And the Senate didn't do anything about any lobbying I don't want to debate here, so there wasn't a lobby behind me either, but if you think it's appropriate - because it's not just about recording, it's about keeping - keeping all phone calls in this area or any electronic communications, even those that have no intention of providing any investment service at all, but it's about a confidential or private nature, then support the proposal that came out of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't think we should do that. And when Mr Stanjura asked a rhetorical question about how many such complaints the Czech National Bank addresses each year as supervisory authority in this area, I would like to answer for it and inform you. Roughly no more than 50, as the report of the Czech National Bank shows as a supervisory authority. So if, because of such a negligible amount, we are to store and record and, above all, keep, and maybe even for seven years, all telephone calls, then everyone has to ask each other how effective it is, how useful it is. Because it's also not, as I said in the first speech, without any impact on the costs of the individual companies. So I challenge you as the senát - not because I want to fight, I respect the Governor of the Czech National Bank very much, and I have very good relations with the Minister. But if you think it's appropriate to record all phone calls and more or less confirm the state where it's being done at the moment, and it's even out of the law, then vote for the MP's motion. If you think that this is not the case and that it is always intended to measure the purpose of keeping those records, a purpose that can be nothing more than the provision of investment services, an effort either to make some trade or not to close some trade and, if you think that is sufficient, vote in favour of a Senate proposal which is reasonable, balanced and fully in accordance with the relevant European Union directives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u13	Thank you, Senator, and Mr Luzar is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was a little provoked by the Governor by his speech tonight. I listened to him very carefully, and I stayed a little crazy. What's going on? There's a group of people, rich people, who are investing, and they're probably having problems with those who are giving them the investments. I am constantly convinced, especially my right-wing colleagues, that these are successful people, those are the intelligent ones, those are the people who have succeeded in this society because they have enough resources and they invest them. Yet, they are able to fall for impostors, so this person needs increased protection. And here, as the governor of the Czech National Bank arrives on the white steed, the Knight begins to fight for these clients, citizens, and asks for a radical and hard solution. But I ask, Mr. Governor, where was the Czech National Bank when interest-rate loans were offered here, interest-rate interest rates of 100, 200, 300 percent? Where was the Czech National Bank when ordinary citizens were begging here and it was said "but he read the terms, for he had to confess it"? Where was the Czech National Bank when most Czech citizens were in debt? Why didn't you come here on a steed and burn that there was a need to take hard and clear measures against these people who abused those poor people and took credit? Unfortunately, it shows whose side the Czech National Bank is on. When Members here take their own initiative to solve these problems here, the long-term problems of people who have been in debt, and we are trying to find the most appropriate form of solution, so you come up with a solution for those who are supposed to be the best, the most successful, the most intelligent, because they have made big money and now they have stumbled upon the cheaters who have taken them away. This is not fair and I do not consider it fair of the Czech National Bank to distinguish between its clients the lucrative ones that need to be defended, and those others who fell for the impostors who borrowed from the honourable banks or the interbank sector and lost the money. That doesn't seem fair to me. And I firmly hope that, as the Czech National Bank, you will stand quite clearly and clearly for usury interest, for example. And I will be very happy when the Czech National Bank clearly states that the interest rate is such and such, and it will clearly begin to correct in order to avoid the loans that this interest rate represents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Juříček has entered into a debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this is a big deal or a small one. It's just that -- and the practice, in my case, the 30 years of business, the practice shows that there really is a need to change something, and the recordings that the Czech National Bank recommends here are perfectly correct, because if anyone isn't afraid of what he promised or what he agreed, I don't think there's any reason to worry about anything at all. And it is true that if the Czech National Bank does not have the tools in its hands to protect both small and potentially large consumers, who will be asked, for example, in the context of hedge and exchange of exchange rates, to have proof of what has been agreed, because the ante, post ante, is hard to negotiate. That is why I think that this is absolutely fine, and my life experience in the company, but even for other entrepreneurs, it is very clear and absolutely clear that we should support the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u17	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking in the debate. Mrs Černochová, who apologizes for this afternoon's work-related negotiations, apologies. If there's no one else reporting for the debate... Mr. Governor wants to get out again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to respond. This is not about any competence and usurping of the powers of the Czech National Bank. First of all, we're not recording anyone. That's the first thing. Looks like we're doing some wiretaps and recording. We, if we are to ensure that, in extreme cases, we can protect clients who feel they are being deceived, let's say, or in some way fooled by the implementation of the investment service, then we just have to lean on something. Ideally, we lean on some footage that is on paper, and I also recommend it, as I say personally: don't use the phone, sit down with the counselor, write down what you want and what the counselor has to offer you and what you agreed on, and we know how it went down and what it was about. But if this is happening on the phone and we don't have the footage, then it's not enough that we have the end of the record, because then we can't get some truth, let's say, because it follows the statement against the claim. So if this is released from the law, of course, we in the fifty or two hundred complaints, because we have fifty complaints a year roughly against investment intermediaries, but overall, there are about 200 of them, so we simply won't be able to protect those consumers or investors if you want to secure it and we just won't be able to do it. I'm just saying so much in advance, just so we're clear. [[15.00 hours]] As regards the fact that this is beyond MiFID II, yes, it is to some extent beyond that, but as the Minister said, MIFID does not forbid it, and on the contrary says it is appropriate to extend the requirements for recording according to the maturity of the capital market in a particular country, according to the level of financial education, the setting of motivation and commission system of distributors, the development of cross-border trades and so on. So we're responding to a specific situation here. And let us be frank that we are not yet at the level of traditional market economies in this regard, where people with their savings or investments simply work for decades. Of course, if we release it, the cultivation of the market is likely to be significantly slower. And otherwise, through Mr President, here is the honourable Member, my speaker. Dear Member, we have received competences on consumer credit, if I am not mistaken, sometime in 2016 or 2017. Don't take my word for it now. Until then, we had no competence in relation to this agenda, so we could hardly interfere somehow with how the business is going when it comes to determining some kind of... If you're going to set some specific limit to the interest rate from which we say it's already weird, I'm warning you that it's a very problematic thing, because, for example, interest rates on payment cards are normally 25 or more percent, so if you set, I don't know, let's say ten times the CNB's basic rate, which we can say ten times, or PRIBOR, it's going to be 20 percent, so we're all with loan shark victims' credit cards. So let's just remember that it's not that easy to make certain things by law. And by the way, weird isn't so much about the interest rate as about the conditions under which the loan is granted. Of course, we are committed to the responsibility that we understand from existing legislation. I appeal once again to approve the House text, because it is not an overuse. An example from practice, by the way. We have demanded some, even renowned banks, their investment intermediaries, recordings that exist because they have been recording them for years, and in some specific control actions, the recordings were rejected with basically simple justification. We'd rather pay a few million tickets to the state budget than hear the tapes and what's on them. So that's the state of the investment market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u19	Thank you. For the record, the Member addresses the Member through, so, Mr Governor, you can actually directly, you don't have to use me. President Stanjura for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u20	I am pleased that both the senator and the governor have agreed on about 50 complaints, let's say 200. According to my information, about half of it was classified as justified and half of it was unwarranted. But even if they're all classified as legitimate, and I don't want to downplay it, those particular cases, I've been debating with the secretary for a while now, rough guessing, that number isn't completely verified that the transactions are going to be millions a year. Millions! And there are 50 complaints. And our reaction to this 0.0-- I don't know, it's not even a promile, it's already below it-- it's a massive recording. But it's not true, I've already said here once that all calls that may or may have led to the conclusion of the deal must be recorded. The governor's got it in style: it's either recording everything or nothing. But that's not true. In the proposal approved by our Committee on Budgets and also approved by the Senate, it is said that all trades that lead or can lead to the conclusion of trade must be recorded. And then, of course, there's the possibility of control. The governor won't listen to me. That's a tough conversation to have. So, Governor, I want to ask if the interpretation of the Senate is true, and I share it, that all phone calls that lead to or may lead to the conclusion of the trade must be recorded in the Senate version, and then you can use them to decide in those 50 cases in a million whether the complaint is justified or not. But take the discrepancy. Fifty to a million. It's like the mortgage thing. There is no problem, but we want new powers. It's a very similar approach. It's called prevention. And I call it increasing the regulation, the powers of the state, and reducing the role of a confident and responsible citizen. So it's not how you serve it, it's either nothing or everything. Either to a reasonable degree, which, in our opinion and in the upper chamber's opinion, is sufficient for a well-founded control and for a well-founded evaluation of any complaints, or everything will be recorded, because what if we found something there. And if, Mr. Governor, you're using these particular banks, I'd like you to name them on a microphone, who of the renowned banks is using the argument "before you hear what we're saying to clients, we'd rather pay." In general it makes no sense, because it could also be a guide for potential investors and clients to those who would rather pay a fine than publish what they tell clients not to go to them. And don't say: you'll be surprised, some of the renowned. What kind of information is that? How are we supposed to work with her? How are those who want to make use of it and invest in it? That kind of information is of no use to them if I say it politely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-001-005.u21	Thank you. Anyone else interested in speaking in the debate? I don't see anyone at the moment. I'm done with the debate. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I've already summoned our colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a motion to unsubscribe, which I've just granted. We will need the consent of an absolute majority of Members present to be adopted. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending certain laws on the regulation of entrepreneurship in the financial market, according to the House press 398/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 398/6'. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the Senate version. Who's against it? Voting number 65, registered is 144, for 67, versus 3. This proposal was not adopted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This resolution requires the approval of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the consent of 101 Members. The kvorum is already set correctly on the board. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending certain laws on the regulation of entrepreneurship in the financial market, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to the House press 398/5'. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 66, registered is 153, for 107, versus 16. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you all, and I'm done with this point. [[15.10 hours]] I'm opening another point.
