ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u1	212. Government bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 411/ - third reading Madam Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová and rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, who is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's 411/4 press, which was delivered on 21 January 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the Parliamentary Press 411/5. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He's interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly mention the proposal for an amendment to the regulation of housing co-ownership, contained in the Civil Code and Act 311/2013 Coll., on the transfer of ownership rights to units and group family houses in certain housing associations, which was prepared in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, and which is also a co-president of the proposed modifications. First of all, I would like to remind you that the regulation of housing joint ownership affects a considerable number of persons. In 2018, approximately 65,000 members of the group were registered in the Czech Republic and their number increased by 3% year on year. There are more than 1.5 million apartments in housing joint ownership. This adjustment is therefore very important for many of our fellow citizens. In particular, the following modifications may be included in the major proposed amendments: the modification of the owner's declaration, in which, according to the existing text of the law, the requirements of the statutes may be stated, which raises in practice the question of whether, in connection with the acceptance of the declaration, the community of owners can only be incorporated or registered in a public register, as well as whether the subsequent amendment of the statutes following the establishment of the community of owners as a legal person is also a change of the declaration. The proposal removes these doubts by continuing to be a separate document from the declaration. Furthermore, changes are proposed in the process of changing the declaration, also the modification of the rights and obligations of the owner of the unit, in particular in relation to the possibilities of repair and maintenance not only within the apartment but also in relation to the common parts. It is also important to consider the elimination of doubts when deciding on the proportion of the contributions and then when determining the contribution to the management of the house and the land. The main change is the adjustment of the transfer of debts and debts in the case of the transfer of the unit and the clarification of the amount to which debts are transferred to the acquirer. The provisions on debt transfer also apply in the future to payments for transactions related to the use of the apartment. It is also proposed to precise a text relating to the management of the common parts before the creation of a community of owners as a legal person. The process of forced sale of an owner's unit which does not fulfil its obligations is simplified. This institute is not nearly used in practice for its complex adaptation. In principle, there is no effective solution to the situation for owners who do not fulfil their obligations in a way that significantly restricts or precludes the exercise of the rights of other owners of the units. Last but not least, it is proposed to exclude pre-emptive rights, particularly in cases where co-ownership is a unit in which garage parking is defined or where the co-ownership is particularly functionally related. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] Other minor changes, such as the amendment of the alternate assembly when reviewing the decisions of the members' communities by the court to simplify decision-making and improve the functioning of the community. With regard to the relationship of the housing co-ownership legislation contained in the Civil Code in Act No. 311/2013 Sb., on the transfer of ownership to units and group family houses, are also proposed other partial modifications. The proposal was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a committee of guarantee and it recommended its approval. At second reading, amendments were tabled to the proposal. Given the importance of the material presented, I beg you to accept it and refer it to the Senate for further discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall. I didn't want to interrupt the secretary. She has a strong voice, so she drowns you out, but there's really too much noise. If you have a phone call or something to discuss, please go to the lobby. I am opening a debate in which Mr Feri is the first to be joined. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow Members of the government, we have fought this proposal for a long time, but I think we have found an option that is quite viable for everyone. One thing arose there and was taken into account in the second reading, namely that this proposal in its original design would lead to the factual paralysis of those houses where the housing cooperative and some transferred units are, because even one transferred unit could paralyze the management of the house by its non-participation. This was modified by my Amendment B. The proposal doesn't recreate the wheel, it doesn't discover America, you know it, it's great, but it's just maintaining the current state of affairs, which means voting really fairly. The Constitutional Legal Committee adopted a recommendation on him, I think - I was ill - that even unanimously. I'm asking for your support. We will support the overall proposal, given that a compromise has been reached on the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u5	Thank you. I'm asking who else. Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would rather ask, in some way systemically, if we could ask the Minister, together with the Minister of the Interior, perhaps partly with the Minister of Culture, to create a group in their departments that will address the negative phenomenon of those platforms, I do not only mean Airbnb, because I know that there was a meeting on Friday that was initiated by Minister Dostálová, but then the meeting gets into the situation that only the matter concerning the one resort is being dealt closely with, and it does not move to the resorts of others, because, of course, the Ministry of the Interior plays a huge role in these platforms, when again, from the point of view of the foreign law, there are some obligations that concern reporting within some legal deadlines. For example, I was now checking to see if the meeting, which the Minister initiated on Friday, was mentioned as changing the Civil Code in this regard, which in theory - as we all believe and hope - can help in this matter. And the people who were there said that it didn't mention it at all, that it was new information to them. Do not take this as a criticism, Madam Secretary, rather as a recommendation, because the problem, especially in large cities, is great. And I'm kind of into this problem right now, because in Prague 2, we have this huge problem, and I know that a lot of resorts are doing something, and they're doing good steps, but no one is coordinating these resorts to do something that's going to follow up on each other and it's going to have a head and a heel. So I'd like to ask you, because it's mostly a matter of your department, if you might be the initiating agent of some inter-departmental work session where these things will be discussed, because we're about to get here a construction law, my colleague mentioned it at the meeting where Prague 2 initiated the review procedure, namely Podskalska 27, it was about imposing a penalty for using the apartment building for short-term rentals. The sanctions were the appeal body of the Magistrate hl. m. Prague canceled. In short, the MMR rejected this complaint, which lacks a ratio, but it rightly rejected it with reference to the Supreme Administrative Court judgment, but beware - the judgment is from 2008, from which I quote only one sentence: Leaving apartments for short term rental does not go beyond the limits of permissible use of the building. So here I would like to ask that, in this discussion of the construction law, some provisions be created for the future, which will create the prerequisites for us to ensure that the building authorities can effectively ensure that they comply with their decisions, including defining the purpose of the use of buildings. I know we're discussing the Civil Code. I'm sorry for putting you in the building bill, but it's really connected. I just wanted to take the opportunity to see the problem of the platforms, the housing leases, the problem here from the Minister, to deal with it, so that it would be more widely addressed, even in terms of the construction law or the municipal law, and, of course, last but not least, the Ministry of the Interior will be extremely important in these negotiations and in what legal authorization we have. So please take it not as a criticism, but as a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u7	Thank you. Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u8	Thank you very much, Madame. We actually had a meeting on Friday. I had no idea that in the context of this, it would open up today. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance have already proposed that Mr Luzar take part in these meetings at this very meeting. I'm sure we'll make the next meeting, but only to answer the lady. It is already in the law today in the context of the amendment of the 311, so, of course, on the basis of the demands raised, it is proposed to introduce the possibility to negotiate in connection with the rental of the apartment the right to payment of the contractual penalty in the event of breach of the obligations arising from the lease by the tenant. This has been prohibited by law until now and we will also have a favourable opinion on Mr Michálek's amendment, which actually aims to catch accommodation services, when it is proposed to notify the owner of the unit against the SVJ when the owner provides accommodation services. And here I think it's also actually good to encourage us to do things. But at the same time I confirm that it is necessary to act in an interdepartmental manner, that this does not concern only the Ministry of MMR, so of course we will respond to these requests and the next negotiations will be intermediate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u9	Thank you. Mr Benda is next in line for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u10	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I was originally logged in before Mrs Černochová, but somehow it collapsed a little bit in the electronic log-in. I just wanted to, because it didn't completely go away here, a little bit to add to the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee the essential questions that were there beyond the original government proposal, or the original government proposal that came from the Ministry of Justice, which in this press were merged more or less into one that was adopted. And just so the House knows, and then no one blames me for voting on something we didn't know about. The first is, as the Minister said, in 2012, when the new Civil Code was adopted, some concept of pre-emptive rights in the case of co-ownership was chosen. It was a concept that only if this co-ownership arose unexpectedly, in the event of death and other things, there existed pre-emptive law for some time. This concept was changed during the previous minister, the pre-past minister Pelikán in 2016 to the fact that the pre-emptive law had returned. I already thought it was a big mistake at the time. I acted against it on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And now they've started coming from the resorts, this time specifically from the Ministry of Regional Development, proposals for us to cut the pre-emptive law there and then again. Here it was about garage parking, or other things related to housing, but I knew just as well that the same problems were with the Ministry of Agriculture with Minister Toman and others. That the pre-emptive right of co-ownership simply creates a big problem, and, in my view, conceptually, it is not right, because it simply restricts co-ownership, but it is also an entire property. Therefore, the Constitutional and Legal Committee, in agreement with both departments, proposes that we return to the original concept of pre-emptive rights in co-ownership, as it was in the new Civil Code in 2012, that means that there is no pre-emptive law, only those limited cases where it arose from some sudden event, such as inheritance, where there is a six-month period for heirs to be able to settle things. I think that's a fundamental conceptual change that I just want the House to know that it's going to be voted on. I would also say that we support Mr Feri's proposal, which leads to equalisation of cooperatives and co-owners, when it comes to disbanding cooperative ownership into cooperative ownership, namely the co-ownership of units. And after what my colleague Černochová asked. I think that everything about platforms is far from being resolved. Nevertheless, the constitutional-legal committee recommended two proposals, in agreement with the ministries, which we consider to be at least a step forward in order to be able to at least in civil law - and now I am not talking about the public regulations, which must undoubtedly bring the executives separately - but at least in civil law, in some way, to address the issue of precisely shared accommodation, or today, in any case, it is no longer shared accommodation, but simply renting for short periods of time. It is an amendment to Section 1182, of the Civil Code, where a new paragraph 3 is added, which says: "The owner of the unit shall notify the person responsible for the administration of the house of business or other activity in the apartment, which may lead to disturbance of the usual peace and order in the house for a time not transitional." The point is, if I want to do something like this right there, I'm obliged to tell the others, or the administrators, and they're going to tell the other co-owners, so they know that something like this is going to happen there, and they could sort it out in some way. Of course, if this is not the case, it will have to be enforced by other means, but it knows the means of civil law. And the second part, which has been added to the Act adjusting certain issues relating to the provision of performance related to the use of the apartment and non-residential premises in the house with the apartments, i.e. Act 67/2013, there is again the addition of paragraph 3, where what is required to report, are persons who can be deemed to be allowed to use the apartment if they are used for a purpose other than to ensure housing needs for a total period exceeding two months during the settlement period. Again, the point is that in those cases where there is a settlement of various jointly collected ones - whether they are trash cans, water if they do not have separate water meters, and other and other questions - so that it is clear how many people live in the apartment and that the payments that follow them are really based on the number of persons that are there, and not that there is one owner who regularly spins seven to twelve visitors every 14 days and faces the others: I have no obligation whatsoever to you and I can leave you in complete peace. I wanted this to go away on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we both know what we are going to vote on, so that we know that we have taken a tiny step in the direction, let's say, to at least prevent civil disputes in short-term accommodation. But that, no doubt, as Mrs Černochová said, there is still a great deal of ground ahead of us to solve the problem of platforms so that we respect ownership on the one hand and, on the other hand, respect the rights of other joint owners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I don't report, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in a possible final word. Designer? The rapporteur? Not interested. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, colleagues. The Constitutional Legal Committee proposes this voting procedure. In the absence of a proposal or a rejection of the bill as a whole, nor of legislative technical amendments, we would have voted on Amendments A1 to A15, which were adopted in the framework of the constitutional-legal committee as a whole. We would then vote on the amendment under letter B, which is the amendment of fellow Member Dominik Feri. Subsequently, the amendment under letter C, which is the amendment made by my colleague Milan Pour. Finally, the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u13	Thank you. After all, we vote for this relatively simple, transparent procedure according to our practice. I've already summoned colleagues from the lobby. I think there's enough of us. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed procedure. Who's against it? In the vote number 211, 182 Members signed up, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u14	So we would first vote on the amendment under point A, when it is a total of 15 amendments adopted in the framework of the constitutional-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u15	Committee opinion? [[Agreed.]] The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 212 is 183, for 180, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u16	We would also vote on the amendment under letter B, which is the amendment made by fellow Member Dominik Feri. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]] The Constitutional Legal Committee has adopted a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u17	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 213 registered 183, for 180, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u18	We would now vote on the amendment under letter C, which is the amendment made by my fellow Member Milan Pour. The Constitutional Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-001-212.u19	The ministry's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 214 registered 183, for 108, against 11. The motion was accepted. So we will now vote on the law as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House's Press 411, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 215 registered 183, for 178, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you all, and I'm done with the third reading of this point. I'm opening point 214, which is
