ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u1	7. Proposal by Members of Lukáš Černohorský, Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš and others for the issue of constitutional law amending Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws / House print 229/ - second reading Before I ask Mr Lukáš Černohorský, who will present this press as the promoter, I note that the rapporteurs are Jan Farský, Roman Kubíček, and Jiří Dolejš, on behalf of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Guarantee Committee for this press is the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Now, then, Mr Lukáš Černohorský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u2	Thank you for the floor. Hello. The aim of the bill is to extend the limited range of constitutional competences of the Supreme Audit Office. The draft amendment to the Constitution is accompanied at the same time by the amendment to Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, which specifies the proposed amendments to the Constitution. This is therefore already discussed by the House press 360 and the press that will follow, which is the House press 230. The powers of the Supreme Audit Office to date are limited by the Constitution to the control of the management of state property and the implementation of the state budget. This framework-defined scope is developed on the basis of the Constitution in Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, especially in Section 3 of this Act. Therefore, under the current constitutional arrangements, the Supreme Audit Office may carry out control of the management of entities other than the State, i.e. other persons, including municipalities and regions, only if they manage state property, including funds. However, the regulation contained in Section 3 of the Supreme Audit Office Act does not fully correspond to the constitutional definition of the competence of the Supreme Audit Office. The proposed legislation leads to a wider scope of application of the highest audit institutions, thus responding to the newly drafted wording of Article 97, which, under the control of the Supreme Audit Office, places the management of public funds under which, according to the subsequent amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, the property or debt of a State or a local authority, as well as property or debt of another legal person, under which the proposed amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act defines those other legal persons. This regulation is designed in such a way that the specific status of local authorities guaranteed by the Constitution is respected. [[17,00 hours]] In addition, it is proposed to extend the scope of the Supreme Audit Office to other legal persons who could be subject to its control activities, provided that they are legal persons in which the State or the territorial self-government unit has ownership. The amended version of the provisions on the competence of the Supreme Audit Office also requires a simultaneous amendment of the relevant provisions of Law No. 166/1993, on the Supreme Audit Office, which specifies the scope of these legal entities subject to the control powers of the Supreme Audit Office. However, we will deal with this, with the specification, until the following print, if any. The activities of the Supreme Audit Office do not result in the settlement of deficiencies identified as they are an authority without executive powers. The Supreme Audit Office is a search authority whose task is to draw attention to existing problems. His work thus represents a significant feedback that serves the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Government, and possibly. other public authorities, including local authorities and all citizens, as an information source, whether laws are respected in the management of public funds, e.g. draws attention also to increased bureaucracy, which has been reflected in some control conclusions by the subsequent adaptation of processes and their simplifications, and, on the contrary, the controls have ceased to duplicate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The press was also directed to the Audit Committee, the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered to us as House prints 229/2 to 229/9. And I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jan Farský, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Constitution was dealt with by the Constitutional Legal Committee twice last April, when he suspended the hearing, and subsequently on 13 December last year, when he agreed after long debates on amendments in a compromise which corresponds to majority agreement. The amendment of the Constitution is, of course, a condition for us to adopt amendments to the Supreme Audit Office Act in order to specify its powers. The resolution itself - I would like to refer to it because it is quite extensive - enters into Article 97, which regulates the position of the SAO and specifies it, and also enters Articles 2 and 3, thereby essentially replacing the original text of the draft constitutional law as discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u5	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur of the Supervisory Committee, Mr Roman Kubíček, and then others, take the floor gradually. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Audit Committee discussed this press at its 20th meeting of 12 June 2019 with the following resolution: Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening interpretation of Mr Lukáš Černohorský representative, Mr Roman Kubíček's report, the opinion of the Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Office Zdeňka Horníková and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the proposal by Members of Lukáš Černohorský, Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš and others to issue the Constitutional Act amending Act No. 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Laws, House Press 229, should be approved as amended by the following amendment: In the draft Constitutional Act amending Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended by constitutional laws, Article I reads: Article I. Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended by Constitutional Act No. 347/1997 Coll., Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll., Constitutional Act No. 395/2001 Coll., Constitutional Act No. 448/2001 Coll., Constitutional Act No. 515/2002 Coll., Constitutional Act No. 319/2009 Coll., Constitutional Act No. 71/2012 Coll., and Constitutional Act No. 98/2013 Coll., is amended as follows: 1. In Article 97 (1), the words "with state property' shall be replaced by the word "state'. 2. In Article 97, the following paragraph is inserted: The following paragraphs 2 and 3 are inserted: "The Supreme Audit Office, to the extent provided for by law, shall exercise control over the management of other public funds and with funds provided from public budgets. (3) Furthermore, to the extent provided for by law, the Supreme Audit Office shall exercise control over the management of legal persons in which the State or the local authority itself, or with another local authority, has a total majority share in the capital or towards which the State or local authority is itself or with another local authority in the capacity of the controlling person.' paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be referred to as paragraphs 4 and 5. II. The Supervisory Committee hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the proposer and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; IV. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the inspection committee. As I have already informed you, this proposal was also addressed by the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. We will be introduced to the results of the negotiations by Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolutions of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I would like to apologise in advance, ladies and gentlemen, that these resolutions could not be found in writing in our electronic system. It was an administrative mistake, because the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, as you know, is a new institution, and I apologize for this administrative mistake. I have agreed with the Organising Committee and with my colleagues from the legislation that it is sufficient that I present you with this verbally and carefully with the resolutions that we have adopted. As far as the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic is concerned, it has discussed the amendment of the Constitution as we are discussing it several times. It also discussed this matter several times with the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. We have tried to find a consensus on how to adapt the Constitution so that we have a chance to approve both chambers of Parliament. As regards the Commission resolution, on 12 June 2019 we adopted the following resolution at the 12th meeting of the Standing Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic: "Standing Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic I. Notes that (a) the draft amendment submitted by the Constitution, print 229, builds on long-term efforts to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office; [[hereinafter referred to as "the SAO']] (b) the draft amendment of the SAO Act cannot be adopted without the adoption of the draft amendment of the Constitution. - No change. The Constitution would be an amendment to the Act on the SAO against Constitution, because of the finding of the Constitutional Court Pl. It follows from the ÚS 28/94 that the scope of the SAO cannot be extended against the text of Article 97 of the Constitution by ordinary law; (c) the draft amendment tabled by the Constitution gives Parliament a wide margin of discretion on how to define widely the scope of the SAO's implementing law. However, it is necessary to ensure compliance of the draft implementing act with the draft amendment of the Constitution; II. proposes - a permanent commission for the Constitution - to reach agreement with the Senate to include the Act on the Supreme Audit Office in a list of laws requiring the consent of the Senate pursuant to Article 40 of the Constitution and instructs the Chair of the Commission Kateřina Valachová by initiating a joint meeting with the Permanent Senate Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and parliamentary procedures; III. supports the extension of the SAO's scope during this parliamentary term. [[17.10 hours]] We have therefore responded to this resolution by drafting an amendment, which therefore extends Article 40 of the Constitution accordingly, and at the same time we discussed this amendment on 30 October 2019 at the 15th meeting of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. In addition, the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic recommended - I note moreover, this is quite important to emphasise - that in this amendment by Mrs Kateřina Valachová on the draft constitutional law extending the scope of the SAO, print 229, the proposed wording on Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 3 The Constitution said: " (3) The Supreme Audit Office continues to exercise control over the management of public institutions for which it is provided for by law.' So much for the resolution of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I would just like to say that we have also discussed these proposals, these results on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. We have not reached, say, the desired consensus there, therefore these things have not been reflected in the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee. As regards my amendment, that is to say, as Chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution on Article 40 of the Constitution, I will present it to you, colleagues and colleagues, within the framework of my normal applications in a general and detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u9	Thank you. We will be informed by Mr Jiří Dolejš, the Committee's rapporteur, about the discussion in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u10	Yes, one more to the committee. I'll be very brief. Just as we supported the previous press with our majority vote, and it will be the same in the following press, so we supported it here. While we see how this is a sensitive issue in the area of public administration as well, we are aware that it is a constitutional issue and that we should not commit ourselves to this committee of some constitutional DIY, so we have not made any amendments, so it is merely support for this press without any amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u11	Thank you. In the meantime, two apologies have come in: Mr Radek Koten apologizes today from 17.50 am to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Petr Pávek apologizes today from 14.30 am to 16.30 pm due to a doctor's visit. I am now opening a general debate. Mrs Kateřina Valachová is the first to be entered into the general debate and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. I ask the gentlemen at the speaker's desk to allow the lady to appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Luckily, I'm thin, so I got to the counter. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government, as far as the proposed amendment to the Constitution is concerned, I will admit to you that I am indeed a major advocate for extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office in the long term. However, I do not feel that there is a conflict of interest here, or, on the contrary, I feel called upon in the long term in which the debate on extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office leads to this expression. I think it is undoubtedly a great shame, if we are in such a way that, after a 10-year debate, we are not able to deploy the control and supervision of the Supreme Audit Office, call upon, notabene, when the Supreme Audit Office is kind of an extended House hand and should be of interest to us, of course, to monitor the use of public funds not only from the point of view of simple paragraphs, but also the effectiveness of the management of public funds, including efficiency. The long period, which unfortunately did not bring us the desired extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, expired, in my view, mainly because, of course, municipalities, cities, statutory cities and regions are afraid that they would therefore be even more burdened with different control of the already existing control institutions, and also, of course, they have long been afraid of using what is economical in quotation marks, what is useful, that simply the Supreme Audit Office will not be able to assess it. I believe that the Supreme Audit Office has set standards at the moment that could not allow such a thing, and we have set standards from the point of view of normal auditing practice within Europe, and that it would be worth it if it really extended the powers of the Supreme Audit Office in the Constitution and subsequently in the Implementing Act to affect really all public funds. As regards the amendment to the Constitution, the long-term effort of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is therefore an extension of Article 40. To put it simply, it means that the senators and senators have repeatedly asked for this law to extend the list of laws where we need an inch up from both chambers, otherwise they simply will not support the amendment to the Constitution. I would like to say that this article 40, too, the amendment as I am loading it, is an attempt on my part to subsequently create room for the debate of the Guarantee Committee and, where appropriate, the final vote of the Chamber of Deputies to find such a change and subsequently to support it in the Senate, so that finally the Supreme Audit Office should have extended competence and we really checked the maximum public funds in this way. As far as the Supreme Audit Office is concerned, I consider it fair and important to say that the Supreme Audit Office itself, including its boss, rejects the amendment to extend Article 40. In turn, they fear that the Supreme Audit Office would be paralyzed and that it would always have to seek the support of both chambers for minor changes to the law. I consider it important to tell you both sides of the coin here so that you can discuss this not only on the guarantee committee, but also at the House plenary. I myself will then sign up to this amendment in a detailed debate because I want to extend the competence of the SAO, I want to create room for it, and I think that this amendment can be opened subsequently in the Guarantee Committee or in plenary, subsequently for the approval of the Senate. So that is why I will finally read this amendment and finally apply to it. I wanted to explain it this way, and I wanted to honestly say what is in favour and what is against and what is the history of the enlargement of Article 40 of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u13	Thank you. The next party in the general debate is Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u14	Dear Vice-President, Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am acting more formally now. I do not wish to question this press in any way, but from the discussions that we have had with Mrs Valachová and many others with this Senate, I feel that we are in a situation that, at the third reading, at the time when it was right to place before the other points of the Constitution, we probably all suspect that discussing the SAO without an approved Constitution does not make sense that then the correct solution should be: to approve the amendment of the Constitution and to vote on those other accompanying laws changing the Supreme Audit Office until the moment before the final vote, so that it is clear what the House has discussed what its majority will is and at that moment interrupt until the Constitution passes. Because if we send to the Senate an amendment to the Constitution governing the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office and at the same time an amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, then the Senate has unlimited time to return it to us. We have a boat here, many things can happen. Anyway, he's got unlimited time. [[17.20 hours]] In the Supreme Audit Office Act, we have exactly 30 days. If the Senate had not expressed itself within 30 days, it is true that the bill was passed without constitutional change, which would put us in a relatively obscure situation where the President of the Republic would probably have to return the law to us, because he would have said that it is not in accordance with constitutional order. And knowing our president, he'd enjoy us a lot. I don't think we'd really put it behind a frame. So I guess we just can't send both at the same time. At the same time, the Senate has repeatedly agreed in the past that it wants to know what will be in the accompanying law, especially if there was no amendment to Article 40. If there's an amendment to Article 40 and it passes, it would be sooner, so let's say it's still possible. But if it isn't, I think it would be really right for us to take a vote on these points before the final vote, so that the Senate knows what the majority will is, if there are still statutory cities, small towns, universities, what we will think, what we will leave here, and that at the same time we must not allow the final vote, because then we would be in an constitutionally unsolvable situation. I just wanted to say it right here, because I take this as the main carrier, even though all the attention is focused on those accompanying laws where there's a discussion about who else it's gonna be about and who it's not gonna be. But I think we need to say and suggest to the House a course of action for the future. I don't want to vote on him right now, I just want you to see it this way and see that, in the case of those other points, we're going to propose a different order. And that, of course, I think that, between the third readings, we must first discuss the amendment to the Constitutional Law and then the possible amendments to the Supreme Audit Office Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u15	Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková will respond with a factual point. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would only support what has been said here, because we could succeed, just as we have done once recently almost by risking not approving the law on interpreters, such a constitutional pasquil, or one law that would hinder the adoption of a second law for lack of constitutionality. So I support the very procedure proposed by the previous speaker, Mr Benda. And I would like to draw that attention also to the way another previous speaker has spoken here, Mrs Valachová, that although it is nice to make amendments, it is now absolutely crucial to agree in what order and how we will discuss them. Because otherwise, even the best amendment, which is heading in the right direction, could lead to at least questioning the entire process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u17	Thank you. I don't have another application for a general debate or I don't see anyone reporting. I am ending the general debate. There is no interest in the final words after the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate. Mrs Kateřina Valachová is the first to be entered into a detailed debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u18	Thank you. I hereby subscribe to Amendment 3584 and therefore justify the need to reach a maximum agreement on the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office in the Constitution and the consent of the two chambers of Parliament. This is about the extension of Article 40 to the Law on the Supreme Audit Office and, in future, the approval of the two chambers of Parliament would be needed for its amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u19	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka is another member of the detailed debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u20	I would also like to read only a very simple, brief amendment included in the system under the number 4163, which also includes the Supreme Audit Office Act in Article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-007-007.u21	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? I am not reporting, I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? The plaintiff? [[No.]] The rapporteur? [[No.]] There's no interest in final words. And since there was no proposal that we should now vote on, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I'm opening another point, which is
