ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u1	1. Evaluation of the course of the first wave of the coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave We started the debate on this point on 28 May, and the general debate was interrupted. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková cancels her apology for today. I ask that Mr Jakub Michálek take the position at the rapporteur's table, and if he agrees, he will also become his rapporteur. We will now continue the interrupted general debate in which I have the priority right of President Ivan Bartoš. [[There's noise in the room.]] There. And I will ask you all to remain calm in the Chamber, we have begun today's meeting day, we have launched item number 1 and I would like us to discuss this point in a calm and dignified environment. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I'd like to follow up on last week's meeting. The pirates together with the ODS convened an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies last Thursday, which will continue today according to the approved programme. This meeting this morning has been reported by the media, highlighting two things. The first is the importance of updating the pandemic plan of the Czech Republic, which was mentioned last time by colleague Michálek. It is indeed a modernization and a change in the approach to which the Czech Republic may pose similar dangers, these are the proposals of the individual pandemic alarms. The second thing the media is talking about is setting up an investigative committee to buy aids. It is a point that is mentioned in the media very often. I would like to say that this is one of the negotiating points, item number 4, but from my point of view it is not the most important point. The contents of this meeting are therefore four points. The first one, and I think it is very important for the government, which I wanted to thank, that the government Members approved the proposal for this extraordinary meeting, but they did - except for Minister Adam Vojtěch today, no minister has come to the start, which I see as quite shameful given that point 1 is to evaluate how the Czech Republic, in turn, has managed the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and, above all, what lessons are there for similar threats. Point 2 - and again I do not see the ministers involved in this matter, are really helping the citizens that the government has forgotten in this messy handling of the first two months. There are still groups of people, people, but also small companies, on which none of the government's auxiliary packages fell and who, although significantly affected by the overall closure of the economy and the functioning of the Czech Republic, are literally falling to the bottom, which we will see unfortunately, we can see it now, but we see it also in the coming months. The third point - and I thank you that Minister Adam Vojtěch is here - is a point to deal with the purchase of medical aids not only at the Ministry of Health. And the fourth point is the establishment of the commission. But how could citizens learn, the House, virtually. Government parties, but even the SPD is not significantly inclined to take this step. So I would pick up where we left off last time, because the first point was only discussed, and I really wanted to thank the ministers for listening and for reflecting on what the opposition wants them to do, and they can't do it. So I'm going to talk to ministers who may then read it or watch it somewhere, unless they're taking pictures or something like that. There. The opposition gave a helping hand to the government at the beginning. After all, Prime Minister Babiš asked for it in the media and talked about it. We've been to several online meetings because the group couldn't meet in person. And now we hear that the opposition has been asleep during the pandemic crisis. I have even noted President Miloš Zeman's statement that the opposition did nothing at the time of the coronation. I think it's wrong if the Castle doesn't leak the right information, I don't know how the President's Office works. We therefore sent him a structured letter as to how the opposition worked in those two months. Then, at least somewhere about the plan that we presented - the future we're dealing with now - he had some positive connotations. However, it is not true that the opposition does not cooperate. I assume that representatives of other parties will also be present. But I will allow myself to take some very fundamental steps. We are in a time of legislative emergency, the pandemic crisis, when the government presented very quickly the House laws that we had to process during the day, tabled dozens of amendments to many government laws. When we look at it, it's random - infirmary for people working on agreements, simplifying the claim of housing allowance and child allowance, suspending mobility executions, extending the time to which a student has to submit a graduation certificate to a university due to delaying his math, and much more. [[9.10 hours]] The government initially rejected some of our proposals, which, even with a month's delay or with a few weeks' delay, it presented itself. They were proposals to support small s. r. o., including regulation of accommodation Airbnb, mitigation of rules for repayment of loans and mortgages, delay of electronic records of sales. For example, we have advocated the possibility of renewal of escorts in childbirth, we have proposed solving the problems of cross-border workers, so-called Pendlers, whose situation was very critical due to the closure of borders, as well as a number of systemic measures, for example regarding the promotion of the book market. I would like to say that in the two months that we have spent here and together in the House, sometimes in smaller conditions, a lot of work has actually been done, but many things have also failed. I mentioned here a brief list of some proposals. We have put forward and given the Prime Minister the plan of the Future now, and I must say that I am glad that, according to some steps, especially on the preparation for the second pandemic wave, the government is already progressing. It's an update or a new draft crisis law that will reflect the threats. But more could have been done. The first point, then. We have witnessed several situations during this work where the government did not really progress - and it is often said that the situation was new, but the government's processes are in progress, the government has to work systematically - it has not progressed properly, systematically enough, openly enough. I think it was often at the expense of those long-term television presentations and press conferences. The government could have been faster, more flexible, smarter, more helpful to different groups. I think that as we go through the evaluation of the individual steps, there will be a chance to discuss these things and see what we can do about the experience that we have gained over the past two months. I would like to comment briefly on health care, because it is not a question of buying medical aids, but it is often said in the media that we were the best. It cannot be said that we would be at the top of Europe, although we had good numbers from the point of view of health and the number of people infected and the number of people who died. When we look at the number of deaths per million, the countries are better off not only in Latvia or Lithuania but also in our neighbours. Slovakia has five deaths per million inhabitants, Poland 27. The Czech Republic is about 20th place in Europe with 400 dead people per million inhabitants, so let's not fall asleep on laurels. The Czech Republic is not the best within countries on the European continent. And if we're facing another wave of covid in the fall - and it's supposed to - we should be ready for that. I think that one of the essential things is openness and awareness, both of the politicians sitting in the House, government politicians, opposition politicians, and the public. The fact is that the government was a bitch about information, but during the pandemic there was no such presentation, where the individual data trade sectors were then given, there was no plan where people could prepare themselves for possible development scenarios. We have asked for this information, and Members are legally entitled to it. The government should inform the public about planned measures for the spread of coronavirus and I do not think that at ten o'clock at the press conference, citizens will know that something is valid from the second day. When you walk down the street today and go buy some small shopping on the way home, you can see that people wear drapes on the streets where they don't meet, where they even follow the social distance, but they don't wear them in the store. It's the other way around, isn't it? Outside where people can avoid, they don't have to wear drapes. It's like the Minister said here the other day, but they take them off when they enter the interior, where they meet other people. That's a major problem. And I would appeal once again - and I am glad that the Minister here last time spoke with the President of the MP Jakub Michálek, and he showed him the New Zealand model, so that the Czech Republic would actually go into the future by having some states of threat to the Republic or the local, and on this basis everyone knows what measures are being taken and why they are being introduced. Why is that important? The trust of people in the conduct of government and the clarity of these measures is absolutely crucial to the will of the measures to follow, and it is often the only defense that people do not unknowingly violate these measures and it was not that people then call each other cops on each other, that someone shows up on the balcony without a drape and lights a cigarette. It is really important for everyone to know what they have ever paid and how they will proceed. I think that an important question, which is also related to the evaluation of the pandemic, and still about it by politicians, but also by experts and entrepreneurs in the media, is the strategy of supplying the Czech Republic not only at the time of the pandemic. The situation, of course, was critical; purchases abroad were very difficult. We handed over some months and a half ago - and there were more initiatives, some 220 companies in the Czech Republic that deal with medical aids or produce some components, whether nanotechnology or some other components that were needed at the time. I would like to appeal - and it is one of the demands and resolutions that will be made in this House today - that the government actually cooperates actively with the professional institutions in the Czech Republic, it can be the Czech Technical University, it can be the Ostrava Mining University, to involve those companies and that, now that there is much talk about food self-sufficiency, really the Czech Republic or in a European context, we have been able to help each other and not be dependent on markets that we cannot influence at the moment, or, thanks to the closure of borders, we will restrict the possibility of buying abroad. It's a matter of amenities. It is also a question of how the material reserves that the Czech Republic has will be added. One of the major problems of this situation, which had already been brought to light here in January, was indeed a shortage of supplies for a possible pandemic crisis. The supplies were in the tens of thousands that were here, the respirators and the drapes. Indeed, they were inadequate and we should review the current reserves of the Czech Republic in these material reserves, and the government should, now that we are not under the acute threat of the pandemic crisis, present a clear plan on how it will complement these stocks and review the states not only of health aids related to the coronation. I'm about to move on to the last few parts. An important point - and I have noted that the smart quarantine is being passed on and made by some special teams, the state reserves money - an important point, although there is not so much to be needed at the moment, but it has proved necessary in the mines of OKD in Karvinsko, it is the work and operation of the so-called "smart quarantine," a voluntary system that, if there is a sudden occurrence of pandemics, and it can actually happen that one person will drive somewhere by means of a means of transport - so that we can locally activate this system and, with the help of sanitary stations, actually erase those people who could be potentially infected and work with the problem of focally in that place. If the smart quarantine is triggered, it will involve other components that are now being mentioned as components 2.0. It may be the application of eRouse, which is by itself nowhere - I don't have a phone here now, I have it there - which doesn't send data anywhere by itself, but if - even on the iPhone - you become addressed that you were in contact with someone who had a covid disease, then you simply send the data if you agree to it and it will be done on the basis of their tracking. Maps are involved. If we build this system and a second wave appears here in autumn or we face some other pandemic threat in the future, it is a system that helps find those people, locate the problem, and at the same time it is a good defense against the Czech Republic, if it has enough medical aids, having to turn off and turn on the whole Czech Republic in a dramatic way, which - and at this moment it is only estimates - stood the Czech Republic to 600 billion in the first wave. Crowns. [[9.20 hours]] The last point I would like to mention here on the first part is really a question of testing and the possibility of the Czech Republic to carry out tests all the time. The Czech Republic is still not on the capacity that can be turned off and turned on. It is really important to strengthen testing options, including the involvement of non-commercial laboratories, but laboratories at faculty hospitals and have the capacity to test really, if necessary, tens of thousands of tests a day. The necessary estimate is about 20 to 30,000. At this point, I would just like to express my regret, I think everyone watched how non-commercial laboratories stood up to the issue of coronavirus testing at the very beginning, where they presented systems that allowed them to test thousands of samples a day. These capacities were never used. I have now sent information 106 to some institutions along with Mrs Olga Richtrová and my colleagues, how and from whom our hospitals asked. It is not a faggot thing, I just want to show that the Czech Republic has the capacity in professional facilities at its institutions, why this was not involved at the time. On the Internet is the Coronavirus Laboratory initiative, where the relevant laboratories throughout the Czech Republic applied to, and only after I talked to people who made preparations here in Prague in the hospital in Karlova náměstí, so the requirement for testing went to them in the order of units of tests daily, like two tests in the morning, two tests in the afternoon, evaluation. I think it is a shame if we have professional capacity for institutions whose founder is a state or some self-government, so that these are not used. So today they'll still be on the agenda when we're done with this point, three more points. I think it is important if we agree here, and we have already forwarded the motions for resolutions to the Presidents of the Members' Clubs on these individual points, and my colleague Michálek has sent them to the Members to make a real commitment here, and it is a pity that the Prime Minister will not be here during the day, that the hand he spoke about at the beginning could be represented by the agreement on the other positions of the House towards the Government and to the various ministers, that this could be the treaty so that, in the event of another similar crisis, or perhaps some other crisis, we know where we are going, that there would be a clear plan for the future of the Czech Republic in the coming months, even in the event of the arrival of the second wave in the autumn, and on the basis of these resolutions, we would then act, and if the Government goes that way, we would also support these steps in the context of our vote in the Chamber of Deputies. So much for me to begin with, we will present the individual resolutions on individual points during the day and I believe that we agree on a lot of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u3	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mr Stanislav Juránek today for the whole working day for work reasons. Mrs Dana Balcarová from 14.30 to the end of the afternoon block and from Friday's meeting 5. 6. for the whole day also for work reasons. Mr Marek Výborný from 9 to 12 o'clock for working and family reasons. I have two - three factual points here. Minister Adam Vojtěch, Member Jaroslav Holík and Member Josef Hájek, and then Mr Radim Fiala and Vice-President Petr Fiala will speak with priority rights. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to lecture anybody here, for that are experts other in this House, but in any case, President Bartoš spoke about the fact that we have 400 deaths per million inhabitants in the Czech Republic. It is not so, it is 30 people, 30 dead per million inhabitants, which places us in 30th place in Europe, so we are very well, overall 324 deaths so far. So let us really be correct, we are in 55th place in the world when it comes to the number of deaths in Europe in the 30th place. Thank you. [[To Mr Bartoš:]] Really, I'll let you react.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u5	I'm aware of this misrepresentation, I've already applied immediately, yes, indeed, it's 30 dead per million inhabitants, it's about order completely elsewhere, I've misjudged it, it's not that I'm moving in any other numbers. It's the 20th rung, I think, in European terms at the moment. [[The Minister's response and others from the site of the number of infected.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u6	I'd like you not to shout at each other. Mr Josef Hájek, in fact, withdraws. So with the right of priority, Mr Radim Fiala, the Vice-President will prepare himself and then you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u7	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me briefly to summarize the progress of the coronavirus crisis during the SPD movement and to say what we believe was good, what should be improved and what could be done differently. From the point of view of the health crisis, from the point of view of the measures taken by the Czech Government, we can express our satisfaction there. I think it was early measures, it was a measure that prevented a much larger incidence of coronavirus in the Czech Republic, and, despite the small details that we can discuss in the future to learn from them, I think the government has done well. We don't want to criticize at all costs. We want to be constructive about the opposition, and when something's right, I think we should say it. The fact that this is a good thing is what I say mainly because when we look west to liberal democracies such as Germany, Great Britain and so on, those measures began to be taken much later. Far later. And it's also obvious that many countries have said that they might rather let the population get soaked up, and there have been far more mortality, much more deaths than in the Czech Republic. So here, except for a few details in the health section, I think the Czech Republic has succeeded in this matter. We have always supported government measures as a SPD movement, and I am convinced that we are able to cope with such a health crisis in the future. As far as dealing with economic issues is concerned, it is far worse in our opinion. The fact is that the government, like with the health crisis, had no plan - no plan to deal with the health crisis - but it had no plan for the economic crisis either. However, there were several Gremia of the House where we told the Prime Minister that it was necessary to save those companies, save employment in Czech society, and give money to companies so that they could be able to be able, of course, to be able, under the conditions that they would not be able to release employees, so that those companies could pay them in order to avoid redundancies. However, I think the government has chosen an unfortunate way. Method of administrative - bureaucratic completion of forms, approval, signing, checking and so on. As a result, companies which, in my view, have asked for financial assistance completely rightly in March of this year, do not yet have the funds. This is the result, please, and now forgive the word, the deranged euro-donation system, without which governments of perhaps all the countries in Europe feel that they will not be able to do so. If they had changed this system, if they had left money to these companies, they would have left them, for example, in the form of social contributions for employees who would not have had to do so, and of course this is precisely due to the fact that the company that has three employees is doing little, and the company that has 200 employees is doing a lot, which means that it would also be given exactly according to the number of employees that the company would have obtained from that state. That's one important help I don't think the government has done. That means, instead of helping, the government was draining the companies' liquidity. The second thing that, in my opinion, is also important is that the government wants, or is practicing, that companies pay value added tax and invoices that have not been paid. Unfortunately, the fact that some companies are experiencing secondary insolvency is happening again, and this problem is starting to chain. And, of course, if they don't pay the invoices, then the other companies have an obligation to pay the value added tax. If the government had already done in March by a quick law that companies would have paid value added tax only on the invoices actually paid, a lot of money would have remained on those companies' accounts. [[9.30 hours]] We proposed such a law, the government rejected it several times. This is true in several countries of the European Union, and it is nothing against nothing. And I think that it would be very helpful, especially small, that the government would not have to drain money from companies' accounts and could have left them liquidity to pay their employees. There did not have to be secondary insolvency, there did not have to be such great employment. Unfortunately, all of these impacts are only beginning to appear a little bit now, because at least those companies have deferrals of instalments, deferrals of loans, deferrals of leases. But when this is all over, I'm afraid that the economic crisis will break out fully and that unemployment will increase in the Czech Republic as well. So in part of the economic situation, we cannot be satisfied and I believe that if something like this were to happen again, then the government must draw the consequences of how the economy ends at the end of the year. I also fear that the state budget deficit will reach up to 500 billion. But we wouldn't mind assuming the money goes into the economy. Let me just say one more thing. The state budget deficit today is based on the latest reports, the latest information, about 160 billion. But the money, the extra expenses that went to the economy for different COVID I, II, III programs, Antivirus, are 20 to 30 billion. It's a small thing. The size of the economic downturn is just over 100 billion when companies don't work, the economic society has been completely shut down and over 100 billion has been a state budget outage, whether it was tax, VAT, social, health, insurance, etc. This means that it is obvious that most of this is a revenue loss and that only a small part of the state budget deficit went to that economy. It's 20 to 30 billion, and if I remember correctly, the government said it would give 200 billion and 900 billion guarantees for direct aid. So guarantee guarantees maybe, but that's not direct aid, and out of the 200 declared billions, very little went to the economy. Furthermore, I would like to mention, of course, the examination of the purchase of protective equipment. Yes, we in the SPD think that we need to investigate this matter, investigate it thoroughly, because there are stories and rumours going around and we can only face it by doing so, and the government can only face it by having this matter investigated. The SPD's movement on this matter has proposed a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies to investigate this matter for us by the supreme authority, that is to say, the Supreme Audit Office. Unfortunately, this resolution has not been adopted, I am very sorry that it has not been adopted, but we already know from the media that the Supreme Audit Office is following these matters, that the Supreme Audit Office has included the control of the purchase of protective equipment in its work plan. This means that for our sake, we will continue to discuss whether we will support the formation of the commission, because, according to our experience in the Chamber of Deputies, those commissions are more than political investigative and there are verbal gunfires between the coalition and the opposition and the fact that they have escaped. So, of course, we want an examination, we'll do everything for it, we'll still act in the SPD if we support this committee. But for us, the most important thing is that the Supreme Audit Office will carry out the check, and we will see how we will act, whether we will file a criminal report, for example, on some ministries or on someone who will go out in those audits as one with which corruption could potentially occur and so on. What I think is also important to say here is that the coronavirus crisis has shown the clear unpreparedness of the Czech Republic to any similar condition, whether it be a pandemic, whether it be floods, whether it be a potential blackout or another conflict. The Czech Republic is certainly not prepared for this matter in terms of material security. We saw it on protective aids, which we had to drive from China very quickly, and from other countries of Asia. And I think it is the same - if I have spoken to the President of the State Material Reserves Administration, most of the things it contains, and the movable things it contains The Administration of State Material Reserves, maybe twenty, thirty, fifty years of age. When a motorcade like this pulls out of a state's material reserve warehouse, it's gonna look like a veteran's motorcade. These things need to be restored. The government should clearly state how much money it will spend each year, it should have a recovery plan for the State Material Reserve Administration, so that if any disaster occurs, the Czech Republic is ready for any disaster and ready to protect its citizens. This is also directly linked to the re-evaluation of the plan, such as food safety, pharmaceutical safety, energy security. I think these are very important things that need to be addressed here in this debate and in this discussion. We can't stand in line in India and China for parallels. That's not possible. Imagine that some food businesses in both the Czech Republic and Europe would cease to function. Well, we're not gonna feed these people. So the government should focus on these things. And we will, of course, propose today a resolution that the government should accentuate, what the government should focus on, where the errors, imperfections, the problematic things that have just come from the analysis of the coronavirus crisis, and this is one of them. I must also mention the European Union. Excuse me, but here in this coronavirus crisis, I must make it clear that the European Union has failed. The European Union acted as if there was no pandemic and a coronavirus crisis, had no plans, had no solutions. And, as always, if we were waiting for a Europe-wide EU solution, we might still be waiting here right now. It was the sovereign states that managed to take care of themselves and the sovereign states that proved that they had solved the coronavirus crisis. Some better, some worse, but it was their responsibility, and not the responsibility of any political superproject such as the European Union. From our point of view, what needs to be done next. Some say the second wave is coming. I don't know if the second wave is coming, I'm not a doctor. However, I think that the Czech Republic is very well prepared today if the coronavirus crisis should be repeated to a lesser or greater extent. People are already very considerate, they have a responsibility, they disinfect themselves, they wear drapes. But what needs to be done from the point of view of the state? The state must complete the so-called "smart quarantine." Smart quarantine is extremely important in the fact that if there is a small outbreak of a coronavirus pandemic or a coronavirus occurrence, we are able to come and isolate it based on sampling and evaluation of the small outbreak. So, first of all, it's a smart quarantine. Secondly, we need to check the samples and increase their numbers to 30,000, as the government has declared. I think it's big enough, and it's extremely important. And the third thing that we believe is important to do is to protect vulnerable groups of citizens. That means seniors, people in hospitals, people in senior homes, people who are sick and have some diseases that could put their lives at risk in relation to the coronavirus. [[9.40 hours]] Let me also say that, of course, the SPD has prepared the motions for resolutions that we will present to you today. It will be my colleague Lucie Šafránková. The resolution is mostly about the fact that we consider it inadequate, as the government has approached the economic part of the crisis, that it has given people little and too late. So we would like the House to take note of this, and I will ask you to support these resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u8	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes for working on today's day, Mr Radek Koten today from 9am to 10pm for health reasons, Mr Patrik Nacher today between 9.15pm and 11.30pm due to negotiations in the electoral region, Mr Petr Venhoda today between 9.30pm and 1 pm for work reasons, Mr Petr Vrána 4. and 5. 6. due to illness, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk today 4. and tomorrow 5. 6. for reasons of family, Mr. Vít Rakušan today between 9 and 10 o'clock for reasons of work. I'll ask Vice President Fiala to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have had the honour to justify calling this extraordinary meeting last week, and there I have also explained the key reasons which led us, the Citizen Democratic Party, to initiate an extraordinary meeting with the Pirates Club. But since a week has passed in the meantime, I would like to point out some of the things that are important to the Civil Democratic Party and the expectations that we are actually going to the debate today. I must begin by saying that I understand what the President of Pirates Ivan Bartoš said here, that he thanked the ministers who are here, that they are here at all, and so on. It is not a matter of course in this Chamber of Deputies. But I'd rather turn it around. It should be a matter of course and, for such a serious matter as inventory, an assessment of what the Czech Republic has done to deal with the pandemic and what has not succeeded, what awaits us, how we are prepared economically, in health terms, how we have dealt with what has been here, and how we are prepared for what will come, on such a serious matter, most of the members of the government should be in charge of the Prime Minister. And they are simply not here, and I consider it something that is simply wrong and that we should not get used to, because the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, not to the opposition, but to us Members as a whole, and therefore also to the citizens. It's a natural space where a debate must take place. And with all due respect for the members of the government who have come today, with all due respect for you, it is disrespect by the government to the Chamber of Deputies. There's nothing else I can say. But okay, there's not a majority of the government, there's no Prime Minister, he doesn't consider the debate important, it's not the first time. It's just like that. We're not gonna get used to it, we're not gonna accept it, but for the moment, there's nothing I can do but acknowledge it in some way. I said it last time, and I repeat it again today, because I consider it important that the Civil Democratic Party does not expect this meeting, we do not want to be those who are mainly concerned with the past and the criticism of the government. The things we could criticize - chaotic decisions, confusion, all of this - are enough, but we want to focus on key things. We want to do some inventory, but most importantly we want to talk about what happens next, how we are ready for a possible second wave, how we are prepared as the Czech Republic for economic problems that will come up, how we are ready for the future. Because it is certainly impossible to follow up where the government, in its own way, ended its reign before the coronavirus crisis. So the purpose of this meeting for us is to make a certain revision of what has gone wrong and how we are prepared for future development when we are relieved, when we return to normal life. There are three big tasks ahead of us that we need to talk about here and that we want to talk about. The first one, I reminded him last time, today I will only return to him briefly - we must learn to live with connavir. We're told by epidemiologists, we're told by paramedics, the virus doesn't disappear, it's in some form here, not just with us, but in other countries, of course. We've mastered the first wave, we've dealt with pandemics, but now we have to learn to live with coronavirus. And that means, among other things, that we need to be prepared for the worse scenarios that no one wants, which no one wants, but which we cannot completely rule out as responsible politicians. If there's a second wave, we can't do what we did in the first wave. And I say they did it on purpose because we did it together, we supported restrictive measures of government in the first stage, we said yes, shutting down the Republic at this point is fine, and we supported it quite clearly. But if we did it a second time, ladies and gentlemen, after all we know and how we could prepare for a possible second wave of pandemic, that would be a big mistake. It's just not possible to shut down the whole republic for the second time. And so that we don't have to turn it off next time, we have to take certain steps that we don't think are convincingly executed yet. One of them is what they talk about all the time, and that's what they all put down, and that's a smart quarantine. How does this smart quarantine work? How effective is it? Do we have data? Do we know that? And what's going on with the data that's necessary for a smart quarantine? Who works with them? How are they secured? These are data on citizens - how do they work with them? Do we know that? And I ask everyone. I'm also asking government MPs. I don't think we know, 'cause it's just not public enough yet. And when I read from public sources the facts that no one in the government has disputed, and that is how eRouse works, one of the basic, important, essential, key, as we hear, components of a smart quarantine, we see that it probably doesn't work if just 20 percent of people who own mobile phones don't show up enough, or turn off and aren't functional. That doesn't mean we're ready for a possible second wave. If that's the case, I'd be happy to have the government explain it to us, but we haven't had that explanation yet. And I repeat: it is not possible, this is our joint task, with the possible second wave to shut down the Czech Republic again. It would be a huge mistake. The second great task ahead of us is to help those who have been economically affected. And I'm reminiscent of what you probably know, but what everyone doesn't know well. These people weren't affected by the pandemic itself, they weren't hit by the virus. They are affected by the decision of the state, the government's decision to shut down part of the economy. And that's where the state is obliged to compensate these people for the damage, to help these people, to enable these people to survive. And I'm glad, I say it without any irony, I say it out of conviction, I am glad that the government has adopted a number of recipes with which the Civil Democratic Party and other opposition parties have come up. I consider it useful, of course I am sorry that something came late and something in the form that then had to be repaired, and at the same time it was time, but for God's sake, a number of measures work in some way. But right now is the moment when we have to look at which measures are effective, well done, unbureaucratic, which has brought money to people, and where it is simply different. Here I would like to say that we expect a lot from the work of the commission, which was agreed yesterday on our proposal by the other political parties. For that, I thank you all, because the Commission can look very closely at how the aid worked, where it was effective, where it did not work and what needs to be improved in the future. It's not virtual reality, it's not just numbers. I'm not having a discussion here about whether it's 30 billion or 35 billion or 40 billion tomorrow. That, of course, is important. But the point is, if the money, and there's not enough, they got to those people who really need it, who don't survive without it, who can't save their craft without it, their services, their business, their employees, if all this really worked, it was set up well and if it helps them. [[9.50 hours]] And again, ladies and gentlemen, this is not some debate about the past. The economic problems of many people occur in these weeks, in these months. And if we believe those prognosis that are not quite positive, then many people will only encounter these economic problems in a short time. It is all the more important to be sure that the economic aid is well-set and that we have used all the tools we have as a state to save these people, to really help them. This is also linked, of course, to the debate on medical aids, protective equipment and other related matters. For one thing, it is impossible to accept that one ministry buys six times the same price than the other at practically the same time. It just doesn't work, because we don't have some resorts here like islands that are separate and they do something to each other and then they answer for it themselves. Those ministries together form a state, together form a government. And it's just that one hand can't buy six times as much money as the other. We all get that. And that's what we need to go back to, and that's what needs to be dealt with. And it needs to be dealt with for the sake of the future, so that we can be ready again for any other pandemic or for the second wave. No one wants it, but it can happen. We can't repeat what happened here in January, when we asked here how it was, and we were told, well, like nothing really happens, and we're ready and we have the equipment and everything. That's the second time we can't, we all get that. It wasn't supposed to happen the first time. But I just can't anymore. So we need to talk about this, even if the government needs to be uncomfortable with the debate, but it's important. And here I would just briefly touch my colleagues from the SPD who say, we're also interested, but we don't want the investigation committee here, because the SAO will sort it out. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, through Mr President, if that were the case, that is a good thing. But it's not exactly that. Look, see how the government deals with the Supreme Audit Office's reports. The Supreme Audit Office repeatedly warns the government and blames the government - not the opposition, the Supreme Audit Office - on how badly it manages that it has too much money invested in the consumption of the state, that it is so unsustainable that it has to be invested more, that it needs to be saved and so on and so forth. You'll find all that in the Supreme Audit Office's reports in the past year, last year, and it's still there. The government takes it that way, throws it in the trash, and that's it. [[He's showing clearly.]] Where do you know he won't do that with the Supreme Audit Office's report on the purchase of medical aids? And this isn't just about the criminal side. This is also about political responsibility. And it's also about making mistakes, if they happen, not repeating them. And that is why it is important for the Chamber of Deputies to deal with this, so that we have our commission to deal with it in detail. We don't have to talk about it in the House of Deputies in the diaper, but we can talk about it in the committee. The last point that is important to us, the third big task that stands before all of us, and that we will be fighting politically, is no longer a joint debate about what has succeeded, what has failed, how we are prepared for the second wave of pandemic. This is already a subject of political struggle and it is a question of how to put the Czech Republic back on its feet, how to move forward in the economy, how to move forward in the economy, how to make the Czech Republic a prosperous, successful country. And we have serious concerns here that the government wants to do what the Prime Minister has repeatedly told us to do. If he was here, he could say what he meant when he said, well, here's a plan for eight trillion, or how much, investment, and we're gonna invest, and it's all gonna be okay. Well, it won't. First of all, the investment plan isn't a plan. It's kind of a list of operating expenses that we're all just waiting for, and then there's all kinds of nonsense. But you can't go on like this. The Supreme Audit Office, which has been mentioned here several times, shows that the state's management before the crisis - before the crisis - was already wrong, that spending skipped revenue, that the Czech Republic's competitiveness had fallen in international comparison, that we had a very weak public sector performance, we are at the shameful 99th place in the world, that the higher revenues that the state has, because people are working, that they are doing well, that they are doing their taxes, and that the higher revenues have been, so that they have been largely consumed for consumption of the state, for running the state, not for investing in the future. And here, ladies and gentlemen, you can't cut and say: well, we were here before the crisis, we did this policy, now the pandemic came along, and now we're going to go back to it, and we're going to continue the same way. [[shows]] In the same way, we won't get out of these economic problems. The same government approach will not move the Czech Republic to be more competitive, to be more functional for citizens, to have a state where bureaucracy does not choke us, where we can actually do business, a state that is favourable to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, on which, as we all know, our economy stands. We can't start where we left off before the crisis. And that's another debate we need to have here that we're ready for. It is important for us and we want the Czech Republic to stand on its feet. And in the pandemic, we see both the opportunity and the duty to discuss these matters, to move the Czech Republic forward in this direction as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u10	Thank you. I'll read the apologies and one announced voting card. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will vote with the replacement card number 17. Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský apologizes today and tomorrow for work reasons. Minister Jan Hamáček apologizes today within 12 hours for personal reasons. Mr. Rakušan today from 9:00 to 10:00 p.m. cancels his apology. Mr Josef Kott from 14.30 to 15.30 for working reasons today. Mr Přemysl Mališ today within 10 hours for health reasons. Mr Jan Richter today for reasons of illness. Mr Martin Baxa today from 15.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. [[The Minister is waving her hand.]] Is the Minister of Finance interested in giving priority rights? [[No.]] He doesn't. We are in a general debate. But I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Milan Brázdil and Mr Josef Hájek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u11	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bartoš was here a moment ago discussing and criticizing the government that there are few members and that there is no one to discuss. Even though it's summer, he took the snow, made it into such a big ball, threw it here between us, so now have fun, and he'll walk away. [[Shows clearly]] But I would still like to respond to one thing in fact, and that's the number of dead people who died or died in connection with the covid. It's the addition of apples and pears. And it's all coming together. Just so you know, today, actually, someone who dies of natural death by old age doesn't exist. Such a diagnosis... We're all sick in some way. And how the number of covid deaths compares today - I don't know anyone who died of covid - but in connection with it, it's actually, those states do their own statistics. And now we're gonna run a T-shirt if we're better than the Slovák? No. We're doing great. We did it. I just wanted to let you know that this number, maybe not even the minister, it just doesn't even compare. I myself, when I was on night duty at the beginning, and I'd mark the lady who died, the homeless woman, outside the station space in Olomouc, and I'd write a diagnosis that would indicate that she might have been possibly ill, so she would have been there. I wrote R99, death for unknown causes, and I left it up to the pathologist who finally finished it. Let us just remember that these numbers are very indicative and that it cannot be compared across Europe and say that fewer people died here in connection with the covid, so they're better off than we are. We're doing great! We did it. And I, I say it again, repeatedly, am very proud of it. If Mr. Bartoš, if his mom died and now he'd criticize...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u12	Please don't yell at me. You have ten seconds, Mr. Brázdil. And please, no personal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u13	I'm sorry, I won't go on. So I'm sorry if I said something wrong. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u14	Mr Josef Hájek, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u15	Mr President, colleagues, I do not have the same voice as the professor. My listeners were never students, but hardworking guys, so I can't talk so nice and quietly. But I want to get back to one thing. President of the ODS, Vice-President of the House, spoke about it and criticized our ministers or our government for not being here. I just briefly cut a few prints out of Google. In September 2006, "Today's almost total non-participation of the members of the Topolánkův minority government at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is an obvious contempt for the Chamber of Deputies." Of course, the President will say that he was not here, so I will pull out another headline from 2013, when the Vice-President was already the Minister of Education: "President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček had to interrupt the Members' meeting first thing in the morning just because none of the members of the Government arrived at the meeting hall at all at the written interpelration." So please, I'm in favour of criticism, but first, I'm gonna sweep my own doorstep. If you would come, Mr President, and read to me here the speeches from previous elections, when Members praise the ODS government for exemplary attendance, then I will accept and be the first to criticize our government for not being here. But what you're doing here is false and dishonest and incorrect! Today we are discussing the issue of the first wave of pandemics, which was about health care. She was talking about money. The Minister of Health is here, the Minister of Finance is here - so who else would you like here? The Minister of Agriculture? I don't know. Be specific who you wish for here! From my point of view, the full participation of our Minister and Vice Prime Minister is sufficient. So please, let's not be fake, let's approach each other correctly, and if we're criticizing, then based on real information. [[repeated notice of the expiry of the time limit for the factual remark]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u16	Good morning, honourable Members. Let's keep going. My colleague, Beitl, will wait. I have two factual points. Member Ivan Bartoš and Vojtěch Munzar. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u17	I just want to react briefly, I don't know if even the audience knows it, so there are TVs everywhere, the transmission from this hall can also be watched in the office. I was here in the lobby, where, of course, there's TV. I was even at the beginning when I said there were no ministers involved, so even at the beginning I said that they might be looking at it from somewhere else. So my reservation wasn't directed, and I'm watching the whole debate. The other thing, and I just wanted to say that in fact, I said the numbers here, and I made a mistake in one, which I soon explained that I misjudged. I only used the numbers to compare them in response to the Prime Minister's appearance, and on the contrary, he claims that we are the best, the best in Europe. The Czech Republic was the best. I also assessed in my opening speech that we handled the matter well from a medical point of view in connection with the dissemination of the covid. That's what I said. That's what I stand for. I stress, considering the disease COVID-19. I don't want to deal with any of the secondary questions here. And the Czech Republic really is on average, so it is not at the top, which I was just specifying what the Prime Minister likes to use so much. Otherwise, I think that thank God for who can handle it well, that it is not a race, it is a truly critical sad thing, and I am happy for every life that has been saved through smart steps of measures, the work of health professionals and other professions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u18	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Vojtěch Munzar, then Vice-President Petr Fiala. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to colleague Hájek through you. Mr. Colleague, if anything is dishonest, it was your performance. To compare the fact that we are discussing about the biggest intervention in our society that my generation has experienced, for example, with the normal conduct of the House, to compare it and to tell you to sweep up your own doorstep - I appreciate the fact that the Secretary of Finance is here. I appreciate the Minister of Health here. Where is the Minister of Industry and Trade to ask him about the COVID programmes, the business environment, the infirmary for the CFI? Where is Minister Plaga to ask him why he has been hiding his head in the sand for a long time with his steps and his chaotic methodical instructions to sacrifice the education of our children? It concerns me personally. I've got two guys who are in primary school. And although pupils can return to many elementary schools, teachers do not return there due to the chaotic procedure of the Ministry of Education! And those schools often act like groomsmen. And it's the sacrifice of our children's education! Imagine - and the Prime Minister is not here, who is the head of the government that decides in the congregation, and we have a lot of questions and we want an explanation. We have not learned today, and we have not yet learned on what specific criteria the government has decided to release the measure. And can you imagine, for example, if I go back to school, what does that mean for little children when they can't go to school? Foreign languages are taught only by distance teaching, often by entering tasks, having no contact with the language - they can start again! You sacrificed, the Minister of Education sacrificed the education of our children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u20	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Petr Fiala, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u21	Thank you. Very short reaction. I certainly don't belong to those who would keep shouting that there are no members of the government. And I understand what government members are doing and that everyone can't be here at any moment. But there are moments, and that needs to be said, and we should all be aware of that, no matter what political party we are, when the government is just supposed to be represented here by its head, the Prime Minister, and when most ministers are supposed to be here. An example may be the first reading of the state budget, the most important law for the government. The moment the Prime Minister is not here, I find it completely unacceptable and disrespectful. So much for just explaining and how you, Mr Hájek, are addressing you through the President, he mentioned the first point, and yet it is sufficient - well I do not know if this is sufficient representation. You know why? I have read the statement of the first Vice-President of this government, who has spoken very critically about Minister Vojtěch. He said he couldn't handle it, he was supposed to step down or something. I also read - we all know that Deputy Prymula, who was involved in mastering the first wave of pandemic, is now some shadow minister, or whatever his name is, at the Prime Minister's Office. So when we're talking about assessing the course of the first wave of pandemic coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic, only when I listen to the statements of individual members of the government and the steps of the Prime Minister, I consider it perfectly logical that whoever is confessing is the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. It's not enough for me! I don't know what position Minister Vojtěch is now, I don't know if the government is looking positive at it, that it has been handled, I don't know what role Mr. Former Deputy Prymula is playing now, etc. And if we're going to talk about how we did it, how we're going to be ready for the second wave, without these answers, the debate is losing some sense. That's why I'd like the Prime Minister to be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u22	Thank you for keeping the time, Mr Vice-President. We will continue to perform with the factual remark of Petr Dolínek, then Mrs Procházková and Antonín Staněk. My colleague, Beitl, will wait. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u23	Thank you. Good morning. First of all, through Mr President, I would like to express a bit of indignation to Mr Munzar here from the left side of the hall, because we expected that they would not be abused here in fact, and it is a bit unnecessary, so we thought - I know, it was both sides, but we thought that the discussion would be based on what was agreed on most points. So I want to ask all my colleagues to go back to some sort of run-through rhythm, because if they don't have a priority right, then it's hard for them to express themselves in a more correct way. And again. I am far from defending Minister Plaga, but I do not think it is as black and white as it was said here. I myself am a Member in Prague 6. My son doesn't go to bílý elementary school now. We decided not to put him there. But the director sent us all an e-mail that he decided not to open second grade next week. The reason is simple: Only last week, he had two kids in primary school, first grade, with elevated temperatures. He had to quarantine the whole class twice for a day. He didn't know what the results would be. Luckily, they were really negative. And twice it's upset the whole rhythm of the school. It's really not that simple to sacrifice something. It's just that parents, teachers don't really know what is, what isn't. [[10.10 hours]] Prague 6 was the first focal point in the whole republic, it is even more perceived there. And it's not like someone sacrificed someone. It is that it is the personal courage of every director, not just the minister, to treat the health of our children. And I think that health comes first, and those directors definitely didn't do it on purpose. On the contrary, it protects our most precious - those are the children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u24	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Procházková, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u25	Good morning all. I really don't mind the Prime Minister not being here. It doesn't bother me a bit. And you know why? Because he's in the Karlovy Vary Region, where he's dealing with Sokolovská uhelná, which will be released on the basis of emission allowances of at least a thousand people in the shortest possible time. He's dealing with the mayors there, and the meeting of these people needs to be planned. And it's really no fun for everyone to get together and have a chance. This is where we're talking about things that have been discussed a thousand times. Yeah, maybe it can be a comprehensive discussion tonight, yes, I understand. But the Prime Minister has said it many times, his opinion, and I prefer it when he's dealing with something where it's really serious and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u26	Thank you. Now, Mr Antonín Staněk, with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u27	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first, whether proper or extraordinary, meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where we ordinary Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic complain about performances with priority rights. I confess that I have prepared a contribution in which I want to talk about things that are based on experience, what workers, workers, health professionals in the Olomouc Region have done, because the point that is being discussed today is the evaluation of the course of the first wave of pandemic coronavirus in the Czech Republic. I'm not sure my performance can happen today. Why? Just because we're arguing here, rightfully, in those extraordinary, preferred performances. Please, colleagues with these priority rights, try to show some respect for us, fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u28	We're continuing with our colleague Beitl's performance. And before I give him my word, I state Mr Marek Benda's apology from 10:30 p.m. for business reasons until the end of today's hearing. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who can wait will see that. Thank you for the floor. We heard here a week ago from the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Interior, about the situation in the market for protective equipment, how hard it was to get the millions of pieces that our Republic needed here. My contribution is on a similar subject, on a completely different scale, but it may be interesting for you, perhaps inspiring. At a press conference on 15 March, the Prime Minister stated that he commented on the state of protective equipment in our health care and in the Czech Republic, so he spoke about the fact that the protective equipment, specifically the respirators, is sufficient, and if they are not somewhere, so that he will personally deliver it. At that time I was in contact with doctors at the Jablonec Police Department and others in the region and I knew they had nothing there. It's really lifted me up. And then I happened to get the information that the protective equipment and the respirators in China were that they could be imported, and one condition was that the money had to be sent forward. It wasn't exactly a standard business situation. I called the contacts I was with, I called the mayors I was in contact with, and during some five phones, I had a demand for about 4,000 respirators. At that time the prize was 82.30 crowns per piece, including air transport. When I saw these numbers and saw the hunger and saw the need, I decided to take action. I sent half a million crowns to China, and I actually started the event to bring the respirators to the paramedics. It was a pretty exciting time, of course. It took a total of six days. I had partial information. I can confirm that in China the situation was quite dramatic, chaotic, it was also difficult to find air capacity. Then, when the goods arrived in Europe, it was threatened to be requisitioned at some point before they reached the Czech Republic. However, coincidentally on March 24th, six days after I sent the money, the shipment got to the Prague Ruzyni and we were just meeting on Tuesday. I was here in front of the House translating those respirators into my car, and that night on the road I was giving them to or giving them to the mayors I was dealing with at the gas stations, and then they sent it to the needy subjects. Based on this, I made one more delivery. My office worked as a distribution center for two weeks. We called, prepared the shipments, then we billed them, and then I delivered eight thousand respirators in the Liberec Region worth about CZK 660 thousand to doctors in clinics, and to schools and kindergartens, which were opened in extraordinary mode, I donated about one hundred thousand crowns of material. I can actually confirm that during the entire time of the third decade in March, protective equipment was only available in large regional hospitals in a limited number. In the field, in the police, in the firefighters, in the homes for seniors, municipal authorities, those kindergartens, kindergartens, the city police, the prison service, all the institutions that in the first line provided the operation of this country at a time when those reports about how the infection is dangerous and at this time people went to work, communicated with the public or with their clients, and lacked any effective means of protection. In summary, the order was actually made in six days, between 8 and 24 March. One respirator cost 82.30, including traffic. The plane that brought in the state aid landed when I mention it, on March 20th at night and those protective equipment came to the municipalities of our region from that state level until March 28th at 10.00 p.m., i.e. more than 16 days after the announcement of the emergency. I would like to thank everyone I worked with at the event, everyone I named and who faced the first line, they were really wonderful people and did not hide, they faced their responsibilities without protective equipment, and I am very glad that I could help them at least a little. I will take advantage of the fact that the Minister of Health is here, because from the same sources, I have information that protective gloves are missing in surgical clinics where infections are handled more dangerous than the unfortunate covid. As far as possible, distributors claim that deliveries are only intended for large hospitals. I don't know what steps the D.O.D. can take to calm the market down. I have also seen a government resolution that prepares some strategic purchases. Please do the shopping and fill up the warehouses so that at least part of the goods got back to those regions at the clinics, the ambulances, and the doctors didn't have to look for the gloves like they did during the communists before Christmas. Thank you for your attention, have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u30	I thank my colleague Beitl. Now, Mr Jiří Mašek and colleague Marek Benda, if he has to leave, will likely lose his chance. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have divided my speech here into several chapters. First chapter, I took the liberty of starting. Here I would like to admit that, in fact, as Mr Stanjura has repeatedly informed us about this with Mr Fiala, in January there was a proposal from Professor Svoboda, whom I very much appreciate as an honored colleague, and I know that he is also an experienced epidemiologist, that he has an education in it, that he has received from this certificate, from hygiene, so really here was the proposal to discuss the situation in Wuchan, China. It's true that it didn't go through with the program, but let's put it in context, too. It would be about it being in China, and we would be very much discussing Chinese threats here. [[10.20 hours]] But that doesn't mean that nothing happened at the time. Since I am a member of the government coalition, I had the opportunity to communicate with the Minister, with Deputy Minister Prymula and other Deputys, and indeed there was already a meeting at the Ministry at that time, and the Ministry was aware of these threats. For example, we acted there. on the closure of social institutions and hospitals, it was also immediately followed up with a closure with a ban on visits to the influenza epidemic, because we were all aware that this was especially about protecting those groups of patients of a higher age category. polymorbid patients, so it worked right from the start. Steps were also being prepared to separate the spa facilities to either isolate the sick if there really were a lot of them, or to isolate people who were significantly threatened to protect themselves. Of course, it didn't go into the press, it didn't go into the media, because it might have been seen as spreading the alarm message at the time. Just as we were discussing such things together at the time that it is possible to use the rescue service to collect patients at home so that patients do not travel uncontrolled to hospitals and do not cause an infection of personnel and the closure of entire medical facilities. This was subsequently also realized. So many steps were taken. I witnessed that in February of this year, when the Prime Minister was visiting the Králové Hradec Region, he interrupted negotiations with the mayor of the municipalities that were convened in Náchod and went to visit Batist Červený Kostelec, a company which is an important manufacturer of protective equipment. And he went there precisely because we were aware that we needed to increase production and talk about increasing supply from Czech producers, then from Czech producers. So there was quite a lot going on. I will be transferred to the beginning of March of this year when I exchanged opinions with my colleague Stanjura on the topic of closing or failing the Biathlon Cup in Nové Město nad Metují. It was at a time when the travel activities of our citizens peaked in Italy and Austria, during spring holidays, and it was my colleagues from the opposition - and now I am transferring to it, I call them that they were actually those January visionaries who suggested doing something about it in January, so in March, when we had it just outside the borders, it was in Europe, it was in Italy, it was mass, so at that time you advocated the right of travel agencies to function, to their business and the right of citizens to travel freely. At that time, the government suggested that citizens do not travel and that travel agencies suppress these activities. If it wasn't a proposal and it would be a ban, we are, as Bartoš said here, perhaps at the level of Slovakia's numbers, which turned out better, because the Slovák then skied in the Tatras and not in northern Italy. So these are the things that happened here. And I am glad that the Biathlon in New Town managed not to let go in quotation marks because tens of thousands of tourists from abroad and, of course, from Austria and Italy, where these sports are very popular. But to be reconciled, I would like to end this first chapter with a statement - that is, not to blame, to learn that the policy of preference for business interests is not part of the solution to the epidemic. Chapter two - ready. Let us all be excused for not being prepared and surprised by the world. I am a doctor and long-term director of an ambulance, one of the three basic components of an integrated rescue system, and so I know something about the issue of pandemic plans and preparations for pandemics. I want to assure everyone that the Czech Republic is at the top of the world by applying crisis laws and the IZS Act. Around 2011 the pandemic plan was updated. We've had episodes of avian influenza, swine flu, SARS and Ebola disease. This led rescue services, among other things, to the creation of so-called. team bio-hazard. This was devoted to large funds from the Ministry of Health's resources, namely from the so-called "Medical Health'. crisis money. Just so you know, it's 10 crowns a year for a citizen in every county. Biohazard teams are equipped with protective equipment, suits, masks with safe ventilation for crew members, special vehicles with filter valves for safe transport of infected. We've been using all this in the pandemic now. At the same time it was prepared specialized workplaces for isolation of patients with particularly dangerous diseases, let it be in the hospital in Bulovka, the hospital in Těchonín and in infectious clinics. Paramedics have regularly carried out real exercises in recent years, where we have learned to transport such individual patients from homes, health facilities, workplaces to these specialized workplaces, and transfer of these patients. So we had it all ready. We have trained and trained in cooperation with firefighters and police officers who have specific tasks in this activity. They also practice in hospitals. So we were prepared and compared to the outside world and thanks to the world's top functioning IZS. The next chapter - protective equipment. We had enough protective equipment in the ambulances and hospitals, but just to solve the individual cases, we were ready for that. Otherwise, the whole world, including us, underestimated the possibility of a pandemic. It turns out that we didn't have enough resources for a more massive infection, no one in the neighborhood or in the surrounding states. It turned out that there were several tens, maybe thousands of protective masks and masks crouched somewhere on a pallet in the corner. That's really not enough. But when did this happen? It was created in 2004 for a completely different composition of governments, under completely different ministers, in the meantime the chief health officer took turns, no one noticed. It was a supply that was enough for a few days to operate medical facilities. But once again, it is a global understatement of the situation, so were other states. When it was really needed and we needed mass shopping, then the whole world needed it again and normal business relationships ceased to work. We could not then rely on the fact that the order even sometimes even paid in parallel was followed by the fast delivery of the goods requested. We are aware of that, and we have seen that the states among themselves were chasing each other, that the Američan bought their plane in front of the Francouz and brought their drapes and protective equipment to their homes, they were all just fighting. In any case, the European Union did not hold us back at the beginning, even looking at our measures with respect. The supply was subsequently improved, of course, only after the President's intervention and probably also Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, and we must admit that good relations with China may have played an important, important role in this. Without the air bridge that followed, we wouldn't be able to supply medical facilities with enough protective equipment. However, I would also like to thank the mayors of the municipalities and the captains here who have realised this within their establishment and have also tried to obtain and purchase medical resources in parallel for their facilities. So it cannot be said that, as a result, our hospitals, an integrated rescue system and social facilities have remained unprotected. What we're great at, it's a matter of intensive care. Intensive care units, anesthesiology-resuscitation department. It turns out we have them perfectly organized and very well-designed. [[10.30 hours]] By taking action and plowing the curve - the whole nation is basically a specialist today, like everyone knows football, hockey, so now everyone knows what a reproductive number is and what a curve is, etc. - so we're aware that this was successful at the beginning, and we really had enough of those ventilated beds, and we didn't happen to be able to take care of any patient. There belongs a great thanks to Professor Černý, who took up the fact that he created a program of using these ventilated beds. This is one of the things where the coronavirus crisis actually moves us forward somewhere and forward, because it can also be used in a normal peaceful life, when sometimes there is a shortage of ventilated beds, and based on the use of such programs, ambulances can go to a neighboring hospital. But I've been drifting too far from the subject. It is true that the protective equipment at that time could only be purchased at the cost of using the emergency state, that it was not really possible to do classic selection procedures. And here's where I want to say that we really shouldn't politicize. It would not have been considered by any committee composed of Members who are members of any specific parties and have specific political objectives, but here I would recommend it, and also with regard to what the honourable colleague Fiala has said here - through the President, I would like to say to Mr Fial that I would prefer to really trust those who are supposed to be saving it, and that is in this case the SAO's staff. Another chapter - to whom it belongs thanks. Thanks to everyone. All those who sewed drapes at home, all those who tried to supply protective equipment, i.e. teams of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic, Ministry of the Interior, crisis crews, crisis crews on the regions, IRS files, nurses, doctors, pharmacists, social services workers, mailmen, vendors, drivers, just all the people who went on to work and provided the company's running. The pandemic threat has temporarily brought the entire nation together. Unfortunately, today all of this is being turned into politics again, and it's a shame. Where do I see reserves? Now maybe I'll surprise you. Paradoxically in communication. Less is sometimes more. Crisis communication should also begin when declaring a crisis. Outputs from crisis crews, outputs from government negotiations should be passed on to citizens at certain times, in a certain form, to a certain extent, and should not the media - but this is the question of whether we should not treat it - if it is really a crisis, an emergency situation, so it should not happen that parallel 24-hour communication is going on on all channels with the fact that the editors are trying to get some sensation, to get a different opinion, whether it is a question for individual ministers who do not have to have the general information, or an exit from the crisis staff, or addressing various experts, some of whom are truly renowned experts, but their opinions may disturb the solution to the particular one at this moment of the pandemic crisis. So I see a big reserve there, and it should change. Just an emergency should be an emergency, then with all the consequences, with the result of clear, direct, factual communication. From this communication, I have had a negative experience that when the terms of the oceanization fell, the return of children to schools, Pendlers etc., there were waves of questions about when we doctors were approached by endangered groups quite touchingly: we are 65, I am after a heart attack, I have diabetes, my husband has this, this - do we have a chance to survive? And so on. And all of this was because people were just crazy about those shows, for example, you have a word with Míše Jílková, etc., where all sorts of discussions took place and the opinions of various experts, who actually sometimes misjudged the steps the government takes. Furthermore, of course, I see reserves in those stocks of protective equipment and the ability to produce them without dependence on foreign supplies. That is what I think is very important and that we have to do this, but again, I do not think it should come from the Chamber of Deputies. I simply believe that the experts involved, the health professionals, the epidemiologists, the Ministry of Health, will naturally respond and that we do not have to give them full advice. And it may also need to be looked at - I know that you did not like to hear it some - the Public Health Act, because, again, it is not always necessary to activate emergency situations, emergency situations, use emergency laws, but, for example, in local epidemics it is possible to use the Public Health Act and there is a need to really strengthen certain powers in order for the Ministry of Health to take action locally and not to make it a crisis situation, including possible immediate purchases, etc. This is for discussion in the House. Another chapter - that worked. The hammer against the spread of coronavirus from a medical point of view for me was electronic ordering of patients, telephone consultation of patients with doctors and especially here long discussed and some groups rejected eRecipe and eInability. These things, the digitalization of health care, have significantly reduced the attendance of patients in hospitals, ambulances, and reduced the spread of infection. So I take it as a positive thing, and we see that this is something that needs to be worked on and used for the future as well as for the common flu epidemics. It would be really good. We would thus prevent the closure of medical facilities due to the infecting of personnel. The quickly established collection teams have already proved successful, when ambulance crews have added experts from the infectious wards and swabbed the patients directly at home, or blood, without the need to visit them in medical facilities. Later completed collection tents in front of hospitals proved to be successful. I have to mention here the work of KHS in tracking, they did a great job there, and already mentioned clever quarantine. Here I would just like to support the request of health professionals and epidemiologists to strengthen them. I have already discussed this with the Minister, and we need to support this health service. We've devastated her for years. It was gradually downed and we see that the health workers have their place, and when I had the opportunity to talk to the regional health care professional in Hradec Králové, he actually said that hygiene is already on the edge of being able to perform its basic functions, including specific checks at individual workplaces, just where they should go. They don't have the capacity to do it anymore. So strengthening hygiene should be one of the outputs. What helped us most? Paradoxically, the critical readiness. Many of you here say we weren't ready, but we were ready. That's what I told you as an IZS, like a hospital, like a specialized workplace for the reception of infectious patients, etc. I won't repeat myself. What else helped us? It was a government force in decision making. Again, the government has been criticized for these decisions, and we have seen that Europe has followed us. It followed us a few days to a few weeks. The European Union has not kept us in this decision-making process. So it is a fact that the intensity of the government's progress from my point of view should have been even greater at the beginning in relation to Italy and Austria, so we could have been on even better numbers. But it did. Still, we were really -- or we're great at the health department. The activities of hygienists, epidemiologists and statistics have already been mentioned here. We were helped by discipline in keeping with the measures, wearing the drapes, and now genetics have helped us not to blame it all on how great we are and that we only managed with the drapes. There's definitely genetics playing, and there's definitely population inoculation and with that high degree of immunization of our population. We're obviously more resilient. And here it is for margo, for example, Pirát who fight vaccination - consider it, all of this has to do with everything, and the vaccination seems to be very important. We were also helped by the immediately accepted bans on visits to health establishments. It all worked. [[10.40 hours]] How to prepare for next time? And here I would like to ask: not on the way of various parliamentary proposals. No proposals by lay parliamentary committees. Let us work with experts, they themselves submit proposals for preparation for similar states. And we are here to try to make a contribution to the implementation of these expert proposals by adopting the necessary legislation. We have basic crisis legislation. And I called it the biggest gate exercises in the history of the Czech Republic, during which we tried everything in practice. We have gained knowledge and we know what to improve. How'd we do? We're among the premieres in Europe. Thanks to the timely nature of the measures taken, we are at the tenth European average of deaths. Yes, it is true that 80% of the deaths are covid and not covid. But we're fighting some kind of infection right now, but she can come up with a completely different kind of mortality. We've flattened the curve, we haven't flooded the medical facilities. It just worked out for us. We are one of the safest countries in Europe today from the point of view of infection, and we must promote and bring back tourists and restore tourism, among other things. We have paid a very high tax to dampen the economy, which we will be catching up on for many years. But human lives are worth more than any economic indicator. We will be better prepared, we will be able to face another wave of this disease or another epidemic without temporarily shutting down the company. If we can really do this, then that would be a good result. And now, allow me to end up here, because there was a little bit of fencing with the number of deaths. Of course, there are valid statistics, and it tells us that if we didn't have a little bit of luck, we didn't take the measures that we did, and we went in the Belgian script, so the number of our residents would be now not 330, but 9,000 dead. If it were a British, Italian, or Spanish scenario, it would be 6,000 dead, if it were a Swedish scenario, it would be 4.5,000 dead, if it were a Dutch scenario, it would be 3.5,000 dead. German scenario relatively favorable - 1,100 deceased. Consider that it would be these numbers of families who lost someone and not those 300 families who lost someone close to us in the Czech Republic during the measures we took here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u32	I thank Mr Jiří Mašek. We will continue, but my colleague Marek Benda still has to wait, I have two factual remarks from his party colleague Martin Baxa and Mr Zdeněk Podal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u33	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. I would like to take the liberty of responding by your means to one part concerning the speech of Mr Mašek, a colleague of Mr Mašek. I agree with a number of these things about government measures, restrictions, etc. At the very beginning, but he won't give it to me, Doctor, not to comment on the part that concerns protective equipment. We as the city of Plzeň are not the founder of any medical facility, but we are the founder of a large social service facility and there are many social services facilities in our city and those residential facilities were in extreme danger. And it was the government of Andrej Babiš, which laid down very strict conditions for how these facilities are to be operated, including the establishment of defined premises for patients, possibly infected with or suspected of covid, and laid down clear conditions for the protective equipment to be provided by the staff of these facilities. And, Doctor, I really want to assure you that as mayor and chairman of the crisis crew at the time, I knew exactly that we didn't have the protective equipment. You said for what reason. But I also want to add that Prime Minister Babiš was the one who assured us all that the protective equipment was. I was the one who was exposed to the decision on how I should act as chairman of the crisis staff in this situation. It's my personal clear experience. And only then, when I found out that no Chinese aircraft would just provide us with protective equipment at the moment, we had to proceed to buy protective funds from the city's budget to Pilsen. We did it, of course, because that's our duty. But don't tell me, Doctor, it's a general matter, a general lack, because Prime Minister Babiš assures us that the aids are, that they will, and that he will even deliver them personally. And I can just tell you that it didn't happen and that we had to face it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u34	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zdeněk has now Podal a point of fact, then Mr Marek Benda. Thus, an apology has yet to come: from 15 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Ondřej Veselý apologizes. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to comment on Dr. Mašek. Perhaps you will remember many of you when considering the state commendation for the doctor when it was said - he is still alive and is not on the agenda yet. He's a man, I know him personally from Hradec Králové, and I'm proud of him coming from here just like I did, just like Professor Prymula. Because if it wasn't for these two, we were much, much worse, at least in our country. I just want to thank the teachers because my wife is a teacher, my daughter is a teacher. I've seen this huge commitment, when they didn't know what to do before, whether to sew drapes or prepare techniques for teaching. But also to Dr. Mašek. I mean, the ambulance he was leading, I'm going back to it again, and that's the first responder, that's where 72 lives were saved by his actions. He's moving on. He was in the front line. He's not the youngest person. Again, I appreciate people like Dr. Mašek. I respect you. Same with Professor Prymula. Without him, I don't know how we'd turn out. So thank you so much to everyone who's made us go where we are and that we can all sit like this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u36	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. It is now Mr Marek Benda's turn to give a proper speech. Mr Pavel žáček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u37	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, after this touching thank you, it is a bit difficult to deal with the legal issue, but I think it is also necessary to discuss it in a lazy way. Perhaps one more comment on the abundance and flaws of the drapes. I guess we all forgot that the Home Secretary said that until they were able to put a drape in every citizen's apartment, they wouldn't declare it as an obligation. The result was that two days later the drapes were declared an obligation and said: nice citizens, take care of yourselves. Citizens took care of it, surprisingly. I think they need to be grateful for it. There was an extraordinary amount of those stitches and drapes. But I'd just like to go back... I understand that we were in some kind of emergency situation at the beginning, no one really knew what was coming, we had those scary footage from abroad, and I wasn't completely angry with the government in the first few days that he was taking some restrictive measures. Although I have never understood for a second why and for what reasons the government has taken measures, and even for a long time supported by various statements by Professor Prymula and others, bans on traveling out of the Republic. That seemed completely pointless to me, having nothing to do with... The restraining order is a completely different matter. But the ban to travel out of the Republic as a ban to prevent the proliferation of pandemics in the Czech Republic was clearly unconstitutional and abolished by the Constitutional Court only because the government withdrew it quickly enough and took it back. Then there was the other part where, in particular, the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister began to feel that if we were to go in an emergency, we might be in a situation where we needed to pay compensation for the damage, and they started to say, we would transfer everything to the Ministry of Health, which would do so by its measures of a general nature. The Municipal Court in Prague was hit. There's an appeal. But I suppose this appeal will not be successful for the government. This means that it will be clear that the Ministry of Health does not have these powers to shut the economy out of emergency. [[10.50 hours]] We all seem to remember that, at the end of April, there was an extremely dramatic discussion right here in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, if the emergency is extended by three Sundays, fourteen days, seven days, a month. Finally, it was decided by the Communist Party, which said three Sundays. The Minister of the Interior explained everything that can't be done outside of emergency to find out that after those three Sundays we are still back in the same story, and the Ministry of Health continues to ban itself only by its general measures, namely, quite general bans. I know the Minister is, besides being a minister, a lawyer, so I very much warn him to continue this practice. It's gonna be bad. It will abolish our judgments, without a doubt. The Ministry of Health has no right to shut down entire sectors of the economy in the current regime. And it continued. I know you're still hoping those courts won't be able to do that, that you'll always be able to take those measures back before the courts decide they should be canceled. But it's a very dangerous condition. If I take the last precaution, why we have restaurant closing hours at 11:00 p.m. Is there something special going on? Now the Ministry has promised us that from 8 June the closing hours in the restaurants in the gardens will be unlimited, only indoors will be within 23 hours. I don't know who invented it. I really don't know who invented it, because since I've known the Republic, almost all the places in the Republic have established that the gardens can only be operated within ten or eleven hours at most. So, so far, I've found a colleague who's confirmed to me that they have until 12 p.m. on Friday, so in one town -- a town that I don't touch my colleague -- it's going to be extended to one garden from 11 to 12 p.m., the rest is forbidden. It just seems absurd to me. Let's get back to normal. Stop issuing a list of prohibitions, orders and restrictions every week. Maybe give me some recommendations that would be good. Do or do not act, however, citizens are beginning to ignore it. The citizens are starting to ignore it anyway. Tell me who's about to measure 1.5 or 2 meters, tell me how to do this - 300 people, 500 people. It's different every week. Nobody knows what they're paying for anymore. This is still being issued by a number of measures of a general nature. The government has something to pay for. Maybe next week will be different. Please, let's stop this one - if you take the precautions and read the reason message, I don't know if you opened it, I know you probably didn't, because you're doing it by signing it and writing it down by the people below you, the reason message is in the measures that are of 14, 18, 25 and 2. Six exactly the same. He talks about how we needed to deal with the crisis, how we dealt with it beautifully, how we saved, as the Prime Minister said, thousands of deaths. And it doesn't say at all, but it doesn't say why measures are still being held, what reasons are there for them. All he ever says is, "This is how we gradually relax." It's five pages, but copied from the first one. If you come to the Chamber of Deputies, Minister, with the suggestion that we ban bar and restaurant operations from 11 o'clock, we've been arguing about this for two years. And you won't get away with it. I'm pretty sure. And you feel like you're supposed to be taking measures of a general nature. I think it's very unfortunate. If you were dating the other and other measures that are there - this is only the most visible one, where it is quite obvious that it interferes with the business. For example, from the point of view of worship, I also consider the measures completely absurd. Let's just leave these people a little -- yes, we're still under a certain threat, but don't be scared. Stop putting all kinds of epidemiologists on TV, because if we continue to haunt the nation the way we haunt it, the economy will never get started. If we continue to create the feeling that the second wave will come, that we must not spend, that we must each hold on to the fact that we must fear our neighbors, that we must not even shake hands, then we will really get into a state of completely isolated society, and that is something I would not want very much. I very much ask that we get back to normal as soon as possible in the legislative section, in the standard building. I call on the Minister to stop taking big measures. Something else, of course, is a measure to a place where there is a problem with some spreading disease. We've known that by the Health Care Act for many years. Salmonella will appear, I'll close the restaurant, the Darkov Mine will appear, I'll order precautions. But let's stop taking general measures by decision of the Minister of Health, because I think they are clearly illegal, and they're going to be miserable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u38	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek has signed up with priority rights. Before taking the floor, I state the apologies received, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek between 10.30 and 21.00, and from 11.15 to 12.00 Czech Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u39	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the debate also led me to think about some sort of balance of what happened in connection with the covid tragedy, because people are dying everywhere, including the Czech Republic. Maybe less here than in Britain, America, or Brazil, but in the end, too. It's how you project the events back. At this point, I'm reading the balance sheet they're doing in Sweden, and it's easy to find. It's very interesting for me to read it, because I remember there was a time when we decided in the government which direction to go, and we didn't know the future, we knew we'd go a certain way, and then we'd pay for those choices. We'll pay for whether we made the wrong decision or the right one. I remember very much the debates in which one of the arguments may have been the Swedish way. And today I'm reading in a foreign newspaper that a Swedish hygienist says, "I admit, we made a mistake, and we paid a lot of deaths for it." I have the impression - now I do not know in which indicators, but the number of deaths in Sweden is extremely high per million inhabitants. The highest I don't know from what point of view, but he's surprisingly tall. I'm saying this because I remember thinking about whether we were making a mistake, if the Swedish road isn't the one that's gonna be more brave, but eventually it's gonna lead to a herd immunity and eventually it's gonna turn out that we've thrown the country into some kind of crappy measures, that we've doubted that we've damaged the economy and all that. I'm just reminding you, because I remember this type of debate that we had, I remember that even once in the late hours of the night, and we weren't really sure - I remember very well how unclear it was and how we felt that we could easily make a mistake. For me, if I'm going to balance what happened, I'm going to admit that my basic feeling is to thank God. Thank God we said we were going the hard way back then. And I remember the reason we did it, too. At the time, doctors and hygienists told us: The disease is not an ordinary flu, it is not true that it does not concern the young, it also causes quite serious consequences among them as inflammation of the heart muscle, it is when it passes through this country and we leave it just like that, it will be like a storm that will leave health consequences in many groups of the population, far from the oldest. We can't just put this on. We have to stop this. - That was the highlight of the debate we had and decided, the government decided - no, we're going to take tough measures. It's gonna mean casualties, but we can't afford to risk finding out what the virus is gonna do here. I tell you, from my personal point of view, thank God I wasn't in government at this time, which today would have to tell people what the Švéd is saying: we made a mistake, we made a mistake. It's not his fault either, I don't want to blame him. But it's just that you're a little lucky that you just have some experts there to advise you, and you're not all-knowing, and you end up taking a certain route. [[11.00 hours]] And for me, I confess to you, this is absolutely crucial in the assessment of this thing. I'm happy to say that we made mistakes, that we were imperfect, that we did a lot of things for the first time, that we even knew that we might not avoid mistakes, and we could try to reduce them as much as possible. But it seems essential to me when assessing the whole event that we said in the Czech Republic: we have to take tough measures across the scale, and we have to release the virus here at least. He's actually a really dangerous criminal who, if we let him go, we're gonna have to add the consequences for a long time. This was crucial to me. And of course, this balance sheet is probably necessary, and the balance sheet and what mistakes have been made. From the beginning it was clear to me, given the speed at which it was accepted, given that we were actually reading them at the last minute, in the hours we read them and looked for errors, considered and discussed them, so it was clear that it would not be perfect. [[Measures]] But I actually believed that people would understand later when they read that we were led back then by creating a new regime in that country, that we had to create it quickly and that we had to prevent the virus from spreading freely by all means. And it seems to me when I'm supposed to call this a balance sheet, like from the perspective of backwards, when I look at these meetings, that this, thank God, this was done right. And I'm just happy about this, and I don't think it's our genius ability, we were a little lucky to have a couple of people there who told us the words that we just had to say and that we went that way. So that's what I think was the main thing that worked out and what I think we're living off today. Because don't be mad at me, but in this country, the atmosphere is really different than in some other countries, and not only in the United States, Brazil, but also in some other European countries. You know, in Britain, the situation is quite still very bad. And even in some European countries, the psychological consequences of what has happened are incomparably harder than what we have experienced. [[Compared to]] If you have 30,000 dead in a country, it looks at this tragedy in a very different way than the Czech Republic. But I, when I'm walking down the street, I'm thinking, "God bless you." Thank God we were spared this. 'Cause that's something that messed with the companies. And of course, it's going to be much harder to sign on the economic recovery, even on the possibilities to revive the economy. So I still think, when there's a balance going on here about what happened, I'm not saying it at all to jump in here. But I have a feeling of relief. I feel relieved. He's always such a test. The crisis was a test, and of course I was afraid we were gonna fail the test. I was afraid I'd be in a government that wouldn't make it. You never know ahead. And for me, the result of the test is that we didn't fail on the basic thing, that we really did correctly estimate using the experts we had around us, even in the nightly negotiations, that we actually have to go that way. So that's what I think, and I'm glad. I am also happy - you may feel that the area of culture is, as traditionally seen here in this country, not so vital in such crises. But I was also afraid from the beginning that there would be no room for this to be dealt with so that culture in this country would not be completely devastated after the crisis. And for me, it's very comforting that once the main things about hygiene and health have gone away, I've managed to push this issue through the government, and that the government has found space and willingness to do so. And that she also found an understanding that certain areas of the country, such as tourism, gastronomy, culture, were hit particularly hard and that we are actually negotiating until now, of course, looking for a way out. So perhaps this is part of this balance sheet debate today, because sometimes it's unclear to me when I read some things in the Czech Republic. I still think that thank God in this health crisis, the covid crisis, the government has been able to create conditions in that society that I think are comparable better than in many other countries of Europe. I wish we could work on this and move these advantages and this foreplay into dealing with economic issues, because we're gonna need it very much to restore life. This is where Mr. Benda said - don't be scared. It's so hard, you understand - don't scare. Don't scare people! Don't be mad at me, but in moments of crisis and fear, there's a pretty reasonable reason. Because you understand, when you have people who are scared, but because of that, they do things to keep them from getting infected, then maybe they don't get really sick. So it has a positive meaning for them. This is so complicated, obviously this wasn't just the government, this was pretty much the media. I was talking to some editors who said to me, "Well, we admit that we created psychosis here, but what were we supposed to do? Of course, what was happening in those countries also made it difficult to inform otherwise. But in the end, the fear, which seems to us to be a dangerous thing, helped create a certain atmosphere in which there was quite a high level of discipline in the Czech Republic, and it actually helped. Otherwise, I agree with Mr Benda that this stage is gone and that today we are creating conditions for us to return to normal life. And that it's happening very lightly, I can see that. I can see that very clearly in the culture, restaurants, etc. The return to normal life will be slow, and I think that maybe that's what we feel in that government. Today our job is not to scare people, but to tell them: be disciplined and under these conditions it is possible to return to normal life. So I'm convinced that even in this, the way the government addresses the public today has changed, and we're trying to encourage her not to be afraid to go back to her normal life. Especially when we see that the numbers and the development are favourable. It is of great importance to me because I realize that if we fail to create that sense of normality and that we are no longer in immediate danger, we will not be able to revive the entire cultural segment of life, which, of course, still suffers immensely at these moments. So I would like to take this step by step - and I am happy for the last measures in the field of hygiene that will allow social and cultural gatherings to take a big step towards, for example, creating conditions for this summer in the Czech Republic in which concerts can be held, in which it will be possible for people to meet eventually up to a thousand and in which it will be possible that summer will be like this - it will not be strange, but that it will be close to normal. [[which are]] And I think we have a good chance of that. And I think that in this atmosphere, even fear will succeed, and even those segments of the population that are afraid will become less and less afraid. I think that the recovery of life may not be immediate, it must be one step at a time, one step at a time, and for the government we should try to create a certain atmosphere of trust and security that they are trying to build for us here. So the fear had a role here, and it can't be questioned, he was actually quite effective in something. I know it's dangerous to play with fear, but I think at some point it was quite real and it was an expression of fears that they were afraid of rightly, and to tell them not to be afraid would be stupid and even irresponsible. And now that we know we have different numbers, we can say, "Try it, stop worrying and go somewhere." But we can only do that now that we have it under control. So the fear was - I don't think it was a special intention, I realized at some point that it was fake to call people "don't worry" when they just had reason to be afraid and saw it all around them. This is my balance sheet. I still don't think she's that bad. I hope it lasts. Of course, I don't know what's going to happen in the fall, I don't think anyone knows for sure at this point. But if we're lucky, we'll be able to get back to normal in the culture area that I'm in charge of. And I wish I could. It will be one step at a time, and if we can manage the fall, I think the Czech Republic will go back to where we were before. That doesn't mean we're going back to the very same world. I believe that our cultural life will need to be thought over in a number of areas. I don't know if we're going back to the galleries, the way they worked before - I think the type of operation of the galleries before the crisis may have to change. I don't want to talk about that right now, I just want to say that I think that even in this area of culture, a whole range of areas will have to change. It's not just a simple return to normal. And that's an interesting task that awaits us to learn to operate differently in the post-covide era. I think this affair is gonna leave a mark on us, and it's gonna mean learning to behave differently. Galleries will have to work differently, museums, which I think seems pretty clear. And that's the next challenge we have. And I think we can handle that without fear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u40	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch is registered with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief and I will rather try to respond to some of the criticisms that have been raised here and some analysis of the situation that Mr Benda, in particular, presented here. I would have signed a lot of things that the Minister of Culture had already said, and I wanted to say the same thing. That I feel that this is where the situation is judged as if we were in a vacuum in the Czech Republic. It's like we're here some kind of island without context to other countries. It is as if the Czech Republic is the only one who makes such restrictions here that prevents the gathering of more people, who closed the restaurant, which closed the schools and so on and so on and so on. But we weren't the only ones. Advanced democracies to the west of us, very advanced, more advanced than our democracies, have made the same restrictive measures. So in this regard, to talk about the Czech Republic as some anomalous state that interferes with the fundamental human rights and freedoms of citizens, so I think that is not an objective assessment in the context of the European situation. Not to mention that I am convinced that our measures are entirely in line with the Constitution. After all, when we look at the development of the case-law so far, the only successful action was in principle those measures in the area of retail and free movement of persons. Otherwise, all other constitutional complaints, actions, were rejected in a territorial manner. So, in this regard, I do not think that the situation is quite that clear, and it will also appear within some other - for example, the appeals that we have lodged, so how the case law will be set. And it's a good thing it's set, it's a good thing that there's a legal environment here for the future development of the situation so we can have legal certainty. Because, of course, we do not have it to some extent because we have cursed the path that no one has ever followed here, even in terms of legislation and legal instruments available to us in the law. And the fact that we have them at our disposal is an indisputable fact. Just look into the Public Health Act, where, among other things, if we are talking about the restrictions of 23 to 6 hours, it is explicitly stated that the Ministry of Health can close down the catering services on a flat-rate basis. There's really no argument here. This is directly explicitly given in the law, in Section 69. So we're not really going out of the Public Health Act here either. And, of course, it's in consultation with epidemiologists, the limit of 23 to 6 is based on some foreign experience. When we look at the situation in South Korea, for example, which is still being given for the pattern of handling the COVID-19 pandemic, the very nightclubs that started to work there have caused the second wave of this pandemic to rise again after practically zero growth, so by opening these nightclubs, the number of cases has increased again. Because, of course, logically in these companies, where there is a large concentration of people, there is a zero chance of ensuring some separation, so in that case, of course, the risk of spreading the disease is significant. That is why we still want to keep this measure, let us say, in the coming weeks rather. By the end of June, we had a date that we would like to unwind all the remaining measures. And it's not like we're introducing new restrictions. On the contrary, we are gradually relaxing them and I think it is not even chaotic at all. We've clearly set up a plan to relax, we're holding it, we're holding the terms, we're communicating clearly. We're communicating ahead of time with all these operators. So after that time, which, let's say, was very dynamic at the beginning of the implementation of these measures, I agree. It was due to the crisis situation, the pressure those decisions had to be made from an hour to an hour. And I agree that it wasn't always communicative that it was completely happy. So now I think we're perfectly communicative, that we're actually communicating things in advance enough, that there's a clear plan of dislodgement, clear steps, after deadlines. All operators are informed of this, they can prepare for it sufficiently in advance, even for the hygienic-epidemiology rules that we have set with epidemiologists. So, in this regard, I think that communication has improved significantly from the Ministry of Health as well. So much for that. And we're not really an island. In this respect, the Czech Republic is not some theoretical state where we can think about how it would be, or wouldn't be, what the scenario would be if we didn't do what could happen. Here we have a clear practical demonstration. I am glad that the Minister of Culture mentioned that in Sweden. This is indeed one of those examples of media debate, public debate, whether the Swedish way is not the right way, and now we see that the main architect of this trip, the main epidemiologist of Sweden, declares that we have made a mistake, that we should have taken another route, that we should have taken the measures in question. Because the Swedish road and the mistake, as Mr. Chief Epidemiologist in Sweden said yesterday - it was a mistake and it cost 4.5,000 lives. When Sweden has the same population as the Czech Republic, about 10 million inhabitants, we have 324 victims, 4.5 thousand in Sweden. So let's just realize that we're not really in a theory, so this isn't some theoretical discussion here, what if. That's real practice, real experience. And let's really take this seriously. And it's not haunting. It's not haunting. I don't think I'm the one to scare. On the other hand, I think that caution is still in order. For yesterday there is an increase in the number of new cases 84, a relatively significant increase in Prague, there are 29 cases in Prague. In Prague, we observe that there is a community spread of the disease within individual urban areas. It's a rather difficult situation, we have to follow it. So caution is certainly in order. Not fear, not fear, but caution. And I think that-- let's finish the relaxation in those steps as planned. We really have a deadline that we would like to unwind all the measures that are still being set up during June, apart from really some mass events, tens of thousands of events where we have clearly declared that we want to keep their restrictions during this summer, festivals and so on. That's where I think it's quite appropriate. But otherwise, we would really like to unwind these measures so that our lives can gradually get to normal. And I think it's getting to me that the limits are minimal these days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mr Pavel žáček will now appear, Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u43	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a comment on the Minister. The question should be whether the government would like to carry out an analysis, or the Ministry of Health, of the measures that we could have prevented some of those deaths. That's what I think would be a credible thing to do, not enchant in the international statistics and the number of numbers we're in. I think that we should be able to react in the future, if any such situation comes up, so we should say and we should analyse whether there was any mistake, if there was any possibility in the risk groups, in the risk environments, in the risk communities to prevent it. I'd see that as completely credible, and that's how I'd expect the key control bodies, like the Health Department, to stand up to it. But I'd like to talk about something else. Allow me to join our discussion, make a few comments on Smart Quarantine 2.0, perhaps the most frequently tilted government project whose ambition is to monitor and manage measures for the possible second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. On 25 May 2020, the Government approved the technical form of the "health threat management system in the field of public health" project at its meeting and, as is significant for this period, did not pass this document by inter-ministerial commentary procedure based on the consent of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Although in the case of Smart Quarantine 2.0 it is obviously a semi-finished product processed in a move, which, among other things, avoided any legal aspects of such a complex problem as the handling of sensitive personal data of citizens by the state authorities, but also by private companies, following, by the way, several contested decisions by the Ministry of Health, and not even among health professionals, the government approved its wording. [[11.20 hours]] In addition, in this context, let us recall yesterday's response to the Health Department, when the media noted the statement contained in the document and approved by the government that in the case of eRouse, there were "formal errors" because the position of citizens through modern technologies will not be monitored. So the government "formally erred" also in point 4.2 of this document entitled Communication and PR, where, in order to "engage" more users of eRoads and perversion - I quote - "unless disagreements" - a beautiful formulation that shows that people are not identified with this way of their control - citizens with involvement in this monitoring system of government in the first phase of 6 million. and a total of 20 miles in the second. to the media campaign. Obvious contradiction. All of this is due, among other things, to Andrej Babiš's decision not to allow discussion of this system with other resorts and comment points. In addition, it appears from the document that information systems for data collection and analysis were developed and developed uncoordinatedly in several locations during the emergency state under the Smart Quarantine 1.0: within the Army of the Czech Republic, at the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, at the National Agency for Communication and Information Technologies, state enterprise, and also by private technology companies from the COVID19CZ Association. One of the main objectives of the Smart Quarantine 2.0 is obviously, in my opinion, a desperate effort to combine all these diverse systems into one system. And, as the document itself shows, basic contradictions are not resolved, as I will prove by this quote: "The experience of solving the COVID-19 epidemic shows that in the area of information systems it is a clear and strategic advantage if the essential information systems are under full control of the state administration and key applications are developed directly by employees of the resort as employee works. Adjustments to such systems are rapid, effective at a time of crisis, do not require new contractual collateral or agreements with any external entity. An example of the Health Department is the Information System of ISIS infectious Diseases, which is developed and operated by employees of the IHIS under the authority and administration of the Ministry of Health. [[...]] The fact that it was an internal system and the development team could react flexibly to the new requirements introduced at COVID-19 enabled this system to become a backbone information infrastructure for managing the COVID-19 epidemic." End of quote. In other words, the government is prevented from cooperating with private-sector technological products for which the legal side of the matter is not properly treated, i.e. protected citizens' data are also processed by entities that have no legal authority to do so, particularly regarding the handling of sensitive personal data by citizens, but also localization data from mobile operators and banks. There is no liability, cyber protection and ultimately no destruction of this data. This uncertainty, in my opinion, stems from the extraordinary regulation of the Ministry of Health of 19 March 2020. MZDR 12398/2020-1/MIN/KAN, whose legal deficiency is to be revised by 15 June 2020, together with existing contractual relationships based on free cooperation in crisis condition. Let me note that this regulation, issued, by the way, without the opinion of the Office on Personal Data Protection, should have been revised a long time ago instead of completely amending the agreement with a private contractor, because it is, as we all agree, a document of a much lower legal level. Andrej Babiš simply knew why he had to let the material into the government without commenting because the other resorts and comment points would tear it apart. There is no analysis of the effectiveness and effectiveness of Smart Quarantine 1.0, not to mention the assessment of the legality or lawlessness of some of its segments. Its authors did not even ask whether it was necessary to change the law in order to put this system into operation, although they often refer to South Korean epidemiological tracing, carried out on the basis of legal mandate. For example, we do not know how government legislation looks at the problem of citizens' data accumulation on the basis of their alleged consent, demoted in addition to simply connecting to tracking applications without establishing a legal framework for the management of these data. Even the material assumes its future connection to similar systems abroad. Clearly, the government is not enough to connect 210,000 citizens so far, demanding voluntary involvement of up to 60 percent of the population, including those who are healthy and uninfected. I ask quite logically, on what legal basis should this crazy and grand plan be implemented? When I approached the individual institutions involved in epidemiological tracing during the emergency situation, a representative of a technology company was telling me how surprised he was by the reaction of his surroundings that they were labeled as creators of Babišův's digital police designated to monitor citizens. Isn't there any truth in the context of Smart Quarantine 2.0? The government document confirms that neither the government nor the Ministry of Health, as in previous cases, are interested in controlling the entire system of dealing with protected data of citizens, mobile operators and banks, nor is there any indication of internal or external control in it, not to mention parliamentary control, which has also been rejected by the House in recent weeks. What's that gonna mean? I estimate that lawsuits and interim measures capable of blocking this entire complex system, and I will supply the necessary system, before the second wave. I therefore call on the Government to re-evaluate this material, to eliminate all these shortcomings, including the incorporation of experience resulting from the implementation of a clever quarantine, for example, in the Moravian-Silesian Region, and then its new early submission, preferably for approval of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I would call on our public, individual citizens, to be precautionary about giving consent or connecting to various applications, until the government clearly guarantees how their personal data will be handled, how it is ensured that these data do not fall into the wrong hands, and whether they will not be used for other purposes, such as commercial ones. I recommend always making sure what consent is granted to, to whom and for how long. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u44	I thank Mr Žáček. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will now appear and Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u45	Hello, Mr President, hello, Dear House. I would like to speak here to the Minister and to the Ministry of Education in general. Therefore, I will mainly speak to Minister Plaga because it concerns him. It's a shame he's not here, but I believe he's gonna play this footage from today, or someone's gonna retell it to him. The Ministry of Education has had a very short time during this whole situation to prepare individual measures, since this situation has never been here in the past years. So I want to thank the Ministry for their rapid actions, for trying to communicate with schools, for trying very quickly to resolve these issues, and also, of course, school directors, who, on the other hand, had to respond very quickly to these measures, and to teachers and to all those who worked fully in this situation to manage it. So a really big thank you to Minister Plag. However, we must now say what things are good to improve, which things to avoid, because this wave can happen again, or there will be another pandemic or another similar crisis scenario in the future, and it is necessary to be prepared for this much better than it has been so far. I may be repeating myself on some of the previous speakers on this subject, but it is obvious that we have similar or sometimes identical views that it simply exists across the spectrum, which is why I think it is good that it will also be said here for a number of times, these similar things, because it is necessary for further work to be done. The Ministry of Education issued a manual to guide schools, where measures are written, written steps as to how directors and teachers should proceed. However, there are many irregularities in this manual that would be good to correct and improve so that the manual is more clear for school directors and teachers to make the irregularities disappear, simply to be prepared so that the school can use it without any questions, so that it doesn't have to be called and asked how exactly it should be done. In short, it is necessary to work even harder on this. For me, at this point, the objections that fell on the committee, because we have discussed this subject many times with the Minister, there are things that I think need to be more specific. School heads even - I have often heard from them that they called this manual a cat dog, which is a very strange analogy, but so it is. [[11.30 hours]] I didn't like the fact that the Ministry recommended or, in the course of those procedures, it simply said that educators should use unpaid leave. It was considered as a last resort, but many teachers were asked, or asked by their employer, the school director, or if they did not want to, or would take advantage of unpaid leave. I don't think it's appropriate at all. Teachers did the perfect work from home, distance lessons, often video lessons, sat on computers every day, so that they could formalize the work and tasks, or grade it in some schools. So I think they did the perfect job. And those teachers who could simply have been gym instructors who didn't have it in quarantine, because gymnastics isn't really learning on the Internet, obviously it's more education, music education and the like, so I think the director should be looking for a different application so that the teacher can help the school handle the situation even though it's not his field. [[Noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, as a major deficiency, I see that the manual is not clear, which steps are legally binding, which actions are simply to be followed by directors and which steps are voluntary. In short, it's advice that directors can follow. I think that is not good, because it really should be clearly, briefly written, which things simply have to be followed in this situation and which do not. Another minus is the fact, and I believe that most school directors here would confirm that this whole system is built on a voluntary basis. That means the kids can come to school. If you want, you don't have to go to school, you can leave the baby at home and stuff. I think this has made a big, big chaos in schools. The directors are unhappy about this. The situation is that there are really few children in school. Some of them stayed home with them. And yet the teacher must teach children who have come to school and teach distance children who have not come to school because they did not have to because they are at home. So it's also giving him a job, both for the teacher, so I don't think it's the best thing for the kids, either, because keeping social contacts is basically at the first level, because I'm a first-grade teacher, so I think it would be good if everyone just went to school or just stay home. But not on a voluntary basis. That means we should be clear about what it's supposed to look like. Other things concern such small things, which I think also needs to be worked out in the future. For example, we discussed this on the committee, various crossings from buildings to schools, where various safety and hygiene measures must be followed, dining rooms, cafeterias, so that even at this time the crew operations are ensured, so that the child simply doesn't go to school at eight as it was now, went to school at eight, finished at half past eleven, and still the parent couldn't go to work, or had to get someone to look after the child, picked him up because the child didn't have a chance to go to the cafeteria, had no chance to be in the party. And I think that we should also work this out so that the pupils and parents, on the contrary, can make it easier for them in these difficult situations. So if he goes to school to actually provide the after-school care. I think that will make up for that, Minister Plaga. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Otherwise, as regards the measures that have been gradually issued, I think that since we do not have so much experience, the Minister has always tried to be clear. At press conferences...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u46	Yes, you're right, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the Member can finish her performance. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, I think the Minister has always tried to speak in a matter of fact. He held many press conferences for teachers, where he tried to clarify the steps, to clarify them. And he gradually released the measures. However, the big deal is that we, as Members, have learned these things many times and often only from the press conferences. And unfortunately, even though we have tried to propose a point here several times, an information point so that actually Minister Plaga can say here comprehensively how the release will take place and how this will continue, so this point has been rejected here and it has been told us that this is because we will find out at two o'clock or at one hour from the press conference, which I do not think is the best course of action. I think that in the future it should look like these things are being dealt with here, where these comments have been incorporated. And I'm sure we'd be trying to help the Minister make things work. Because on the committee, when Minister Plaga was actually talking about the manual, he discussed the manual with us in detail, so in a lot of things, I think he admitted that it was true that this might look better. And it's a shame that it didn't just wake up here, and in my opinion these irregularities could have been avoided. So I believe that the Minister, or in his interest, is that these things are going more systematically next time, so that the House is actually informed of this as a matter of priority, so that it is properly discussed and that communication has improved. There have also been many complaints recently that the Minister and the Ministry of Education in general do not communicate sufficiently with Members of Parliament. I have to say for myself that I have also sent a lot, or simply a lot of interpellation during this time, where I asked for certain things, because these suggestions came from our citizens, the school heads who called me from the students, and I simply took advantage of these suggestions. The answers were delayed. And many times I believe that even at that time it was not yet clear what it was actually, how the Ministry is planning it exactly. And I understand that because I know it was a lot, it was a new situation. But that's why I think this is better too, this is better if these things are properly discussed and more. I would therefore like to ask Mr Plaga for more communication with Members. I know he's running low, trying to get to the committee. But simply to communicate more with the unions, the school unions, and the MPs, and not to enter into the ministry's bubble, but simply to consult us more. And I believe that if he hears this, he will come forward and acknowledge that this improvement will be for everyone's benefit. I just don't want to criticize Mr. Plaga with what I just said. I understand. But I just want to look for things that can be improved in the future. Because I know that many school directors couldn't sleep at this time, they were very worried about it, very busy. And I just want to make it easy for them, and I want to make it easy for all of us. Therefore, on the basis of what I have briefly or briefly named here, I would like to propose these problems, and I will also add to this in a detailed debate, the resolution that I have handed out to all the Members' clubs today, I have informed them of this resolution, so everyone has it at their disposal, which is responding to this situation. Because we all know that there may be a second wave of pandemics, or there will be a completely different pandemic in the future, something new will come up, none of us know, so that we can respond in advance, so that we can be prepared and know what we're getting into, and so will those schools, so that it isn't messy and nobody knows what's going to happen. I will read the resolution here, which I will, of course, also sign up for in a detailed debate. "I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to create a crisis manual for schools, which will contain precise procedure and individual measures, and where it will be precisely defined which measures are recommending and which are legally binding and which schools are to follow during the possible emergence of a pandemic." That was a Roman one. [[11.40 hours]] "II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to draw up this manual and to provide it to schools by 31 August 2020 at the latest." I've been in these backgrounds to some clubs, and then I've been trying to fix it, and I've only put it on August 31st. I have also corrected this during this morning and put a word in there by 31 August 2020 at the latest, and that is why we all know that we are starting a new school year in September, and I think that schools should be prepared for this, they should be familiar with it. Originally, I was thinking about putting a date on it a week earlier, when actually teachers are already in school and they're prepping classes. But since I would like to go to the Ministry to give it enough time, I have chosen the date of August 31st with the fact that the schools will have it at their disposal. And if God forbid, I hope it doesn't happen if this wave comes in the fall to know exactly how this is going to happen and how they're supposed to behave themselves. So I think I said what I wanted in a nutshell. And I would ask very much for this resolution to be adopted, because if we want to improve this, we want to save the work of teachers, help schools, pupils, students and all those involved in education in this Republic so it is necessary to be prepared for this and manage it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u48	Thank you, ma'am. Members will now speak here with factual remarks. First of all, Mr Jiří Mašek. After that, Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I applied before my colleague's performance. It was a reaction to a colleague, Žáček, who at the beginning of his speech asked if there was an analysis made or whether some people died in connection with the covido crisis in the Czech Republic in vain, if I understood the question correctly. I would like to confirm that there is no need to do such analyses, because she has been constantly paying a lot of attention to the issue. And unlike the states I've named here, for example. Italy, where everyone really had to make a decision, health workers, and you saw it, but you forgot it quickly, in the media you saw weeping paramedics who couldn't accept it, couldn't sleep not only by being physically exhausted, but also by having to decide whether to join a 40-year-old young man or a 70-year-old lady to make up their mind, they put one who has a greater perspective of longer life. And we didn't have this in the Czech Republic. But count me in: we have enough ventilated beds, we have them well prepared, that's what I'm talking about here. But if the infection were to break out in Italy or Belgium and we were to lose it within three months, the numbers of patients, seriously ill, are the dead and the other seriously ill, who need intensive ventilation care, then our capacity would not be enough and our people would be ahead of the same decision-making process. It's just the note. And really, let's not downplay it, it wasn't easy, and it had a lot to be done for, and I thank the Health Department here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u50	I thank the honourable Member and Mr Karel Rais will now make a point of fact. Mr Pavel žáček, still in fact, will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u51	Have a good day. I would like to join in what my colleague Hyťhová said about thanking both the Ministry of Education staff and, of course, the teachers who were most busy with it. I would also point out that during that hectic time, even the members of the school committee worked without a problem, and I think it also contributed to making those laws. And now I would react, and I would like to make a second comment on the crisis manuals, which, of course, respond to the current situation, so the Ministry issued and sent schools at the beginning of May. These manuals are not binding in themselves, but they contain procedures which schools are obliged to comply with in order to fulfil the obligations contained in the Ministry of Health measures. Basically, the link to the Ministry of Health was highlighted many times by the Minister of Education. Manuals contain recommendations involving health care professionals and epidemiologists. And again, they're not binding. But once again, the principal is sure that if he does, he'll basically meet the conditions of the school bill. Thus, compliance with the manual was and is a prerequisite for effective cessation of the spread of the disease, possibly. for effective localization so that the whole school doesn't have to be closed, but only a specific class. And all of this was presented by the Ministry of Education through webinars. So I think we have a clear conscience here. And it's still the problem, whether, how much to give autonomy or give orders to directors who are responsible to their founders, i.e. mostly to municipalities, and possibly to municipalities. Colleges have their stakeholder, or board of directors. So that's still the problem of balance in what they're supposed to be given as a "command" and what's in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u52	Thank you and Mr Pavel Žáček, who I have already announced, will make a point of fact. In the meantime, Mr Tomáš Martínek came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u53	I thank my colleague Mašek for his words. I see it, I would expect it from a representative of the government or the Minister, because I believe that each state will carry out the analysis precisely for the future. We are a society based on a humane relationship with each individual, and of course each fate should interest us. The ideal outcome of this crisis and the ideal response of the entire state apparatus, especially the medical one, would be if no one had died, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u54	Thank you and now Mr Tomáš Martínek, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u55	Hello. I would just like to briefly follow up on the speech by the Minister of Health, but thanks to the fact that there is also a Minister of Culture, to take advantage of this opportunity and to ask about the current Coronavirus crisis, which is here, about the measures that are on it in relation to cultural events. And why it is not possible to consume drinks and food at cultural events, when it is already possible in the indoor areas of restaurants or e.g. at the zoo already consume food and drinks. So why can not be consumed e.g. food and drinks in the theatre bar or e.g. at outdoor cultural events that are likely to have more security and de facto less risk than e.g. A closed restaurant, so why isn't it allowed under some clearly defined hygiene conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr Antonín Staněk will now speak in the general debate, Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this item is called the evaluation of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic, and so let me remind you of the significant share of military hospitals and their employees in anti-epidemiological activities in the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as their assistance to the civilian health sector and citizens of our country. As a Member of the Olomouc Region, I will focus my attention on the participation of the Olomouc Military Hospital. Medical personnel from Military Hospital On Sunday, 15 March, Olomouc launched the operation of a sampling ambulance, which took samples from Slatinic to Zlatá Hora near Jeseník or Staré Město pod Sněžník, often more than 100 km from the maternity hospital. This operation of the ambulance in field sampling continues today, on the basis of the determination and regulation of the regional sanitary station and in cooperation with other military forces. [[11.50 hours]] In this context, I would like to say that according to the information available to me, the activities of the sampling nurses of the Military Hospital Olomouc did not receive any extraordinary contribution, although some CZK 1,500 were promised for the sister for the exit. At this point, I would like to ask that this promise be fulfilled, or if there is any other way that this load will be compensated for by nurses and the Olomouc Military Hospital. If it is. Since 16 March, when secured areas of quarantine were created in Uničov, Litovli and Moravian, government regulations and subsequent emergency measures of the Ministry of Health became mandatory for the Military Hospital Olomouc. It was mainly about limiting non-acute and neural care, participation in collection and testing, participation in treatment and reprofiling of standard beds per bed infectious. At some point the Olomouc Region became the second most affected region right after Prague and the Olomouc district became the most affected district of the region, especially after the explosion of the pandemic on the Neředen college tracks near foreign students. As early as 17 March, in cooperation with the Olomouc Engineering Battalion and Logistics of Pardubice, a collection post was established at Olomouc Military Hospital, which was accompanied and operated until 5 May. Another collection point was established in cooperation with Olomouc Military Police and Police of the Czech Republic at the border of the closed zone in Nové Zámec u Litovla and it was also operated until 5 May. Since the Olomouc Region does not have an infectious clinic, it has only an infectious department in Prostějov Hospital, which has a standard condition of twenty beds, and it has spread to thirty, but during the course of this infectious department in Prostějov Hospital, it was necessary to establish the positive patients' staff in order to ensure additional infectious capacity of non-ventilated beds in the Olomouc Military Hospital. On these newly established fourteen beds, doctors and medical staff at Olomouc Military Hospital treated twenty patients, i.e. five percent in a given month of hospitalized patients, albeit the proportion of acute beds on national capacity is just over four perm. Doctors, medical staff and other staff of Military Hospital Olomouc thus provided care eleven times the size of the Military Hospital. The statistics show that three patients died in the Military Hospital, with covid rather than covid, so death rate was 15 percent of all hospitalized, i.e. below the average of the Czech Republic, which then amounted to about 20 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, the diagnostic activities of the Military Hospital during this period, i.e. the ambulance and two sampling points, have led to 2,600 collections, i.e. 21 percent of those carried out in the Olomouc Region, and one percent of those carried out in the Czech Republic, twice as much as the share of the Military Hospital in bed capacity in the region, and twice as much as the share of the total Republic's bed capacity. I would like to pick up from the treatment activities that the employees of the Military Hospital themselves have prepared infectious beds that the Military Hospital does not have under normal circumstances, and within 32 days they have treated twenty patients, i.e. at that time five percent of the current hospitalized in the Czech Republic. Again, eleven times more than the size of the Military Hospital. What is positive is that so far, according to the tests that have been carried out, no health care professional has been infected despite the enormous risk, which can be attributed to their extraordinary discipline and measures taken by the management of the Military Hospital. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, what I am saying here is not an attempt to glorify one hospital, one workplace. I know that there are plenty of those who have struggled similarly with pandemics, and many have already been mentioned, many have been thanked, and many have not been mentioned so far. What I am doing here is also trying to support my question, which I raised at the meeting of the Defence Committee through President Jana Černochová, in order to address the relevant ministers asking for a response on compensation for military hospitals that do not belong to the Ministry of Health's Ministry of Health, precisely with regard to the disease pandemic COVID-19, but participated in significant assistance in the region. Thank you very much, because I have information that we have already received an answer from the Department of Health. I haven't had time to meet her yet, and I would like to ask the government and the Ministry of Health to remember the activities of military hospitals, their doctors and medical staff during final accounting, because, like everyone else, they are very grateful. And here the Army of the Czech Republic and its individual components have really played a significant share of helping our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u58	Thank you. One apology. Mr Milan Hnilička apologizes today between 14.30 and 15.30 hours for work reasons. Mr Leo Luzar will now appear in the general debate, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the point of today's programme, which is called Evaluation of the course of the first wave of cancer pandemic in the territory of the Czech Republic. I listened carefully to my previous speakers who took this topic very widely. First of all, I want to draw attention to the first problem I have with it, and that's in the title - the first wave. Do we know there's gonna be any more waves? Are we preparing for this, or do we even suspect? You know what the biggest problem with pandemic effects like this is? Not that people are dying. Unfortunately, people die every day, but the biggest problem is panic. The panic that arises in these activities and which we artificially encourage. That the media does it every day, I guess we all know that, and we know that. But that we are doing this in this House, it is very considerate. What I consider to be a very negative sign of the situation that has occurred and which frames this point in a way is how we deal with professional data. Anyone who tries to present himself a little bit and has access to non-public data, statistical data, feels the necessary need to publish them, preferably on Facebook, preferably under his own name and, if possible, in such a way as to interest the company as much as possible. However, it often publishes data which are absolutely irrelevant to the course and merely document certain results and states of a situation that has occurred somewhere, and in this context creates some impression. Therefore, if we are to arrive at something and do some evaluation, we should very strongly remove ourselves from calling for more communication, calling for more information, ideally for us, for Members, so that we can have everything that we can. What can we do? So we can spread panic? So we can raise people's fears about what's coming and what's coming? Is this really our job, politicians and Members, to spread this panic and to do so? Or is it our job to solve the problems that come with this pandemic? And I think that maybe the solution to the problem isn't about us, the MPs. In this role in declaring the pandemic state, emergency state, crisis state and all those scenarios that the Czech rule of law knows, our role, let's say, is backwards because there are specific fields to address and give information. That's why we have a crisis crew here. The crisis crew is the one who prepares and analyzes in detail the information that the government of the Czech Republic is supposed to be dealing with and is to submit information important to the citizens of the Czech Republic in the context of crisis management to overcome the crisis. [[12.00 hours]] This should always be the basis of our progress, of our political approach, of the information we receive and which we continue to give. Because what is happening at the moment after the first wave of access to information, the panic that has arisen in society - and, if I may say, I am glad that it has shown that people have begun to sew drapes, that is the positive that has arisen, so I am very glad that it has not turned into the negative panic that could have been brought about here. Of course, it is framed that few knew how to react, how to intervene. Today I hear various ministries approach and make a mistake, make a mistake, or, on the contrary, there were good reactions, they worked properly there. Is the purpose of today, when we do not yet have the crisis overcome, to evaluate? I don't think it is. The evaluation will come, the expert evaluation will come, the economic evaluation will come, maybe the criminal evaluation will come, I don't know. We know that the Supreme Audit Office has the task of conducting an investigation concerning economy, spending and operating under emergency conditions, but we do not have results. And we're already predicting. We already want to do the commission, we want to put things in order here without having the evidence that should be important in the decision-making process. Representatives of the political clubs in this House were given a motion for a resolution on the benches, which should be the completion of this point. But I don't think it's good. If I consider something interesting or important from the resolution that I have had the opportunity to see, the preparation of the pandemic plan for the next period is important. I'm willing to support that for my person, but we haven't discussed it at the club yet, we haven't talked about it. Yet if something is to be a starting point in the future, it is to look for ways to prepare for future crises that will come. What I personally consider necessary for the pandemic plan to be part of is a timely response. If there is anything I can think of as a mistake, but now not a mistake of the Czech Republic, not a mistake of our government, but a mistake of Evropan in general is an absolute understatement of pandemic plans in Europe. I will only deal with Europe, we will leave the other states aside, but at least in December last year, the first signals about the emergence of some pandemic diseases that hit Asia were already. As the crisis crew responded, and especially how the crisis crews of individual ministries reacted, if they communicated, increased their potential ability to meet and learn how individual ministries were prepared. These are the things that should be done in the analysis and should be carried out with the participation of experts in crisis planning in some government regime, or possibly. crisis staff, if this crisis crew is still established and functioning, also discuss. At the moment, other things are more up-to-date, the current needs of this republic are being dealt with. But there will come a time when this crew should also complete its activities by assessing its readiness and offering solutions for the future. Each ministry has its own crisis crews, each ministry has its own officials in charge of crisis planning. If we should focus somewhere as elected citizens' representatives, it is precisely on this area, as far as these officials who have prepared for the various departments of work are concerned, and how far this activity has been coordinated. Therefore, if we should talk about something and set up a commission, I would rather go through a subcommittee of crisis management under one of the committees, whether safety, where the crisis plans of individual ministries should be presented, proposals for solutions, because of course this also has implications and implications for the budget, of course it has consequences and impacts on other laws and other activities that this country needs and does. I can say for myself that I am satisfied. Satisfied with the fact that the Czech government did some good work after the initial hesitant steps. A piece of good work for citizens of the Czech Republic, a piece of good work to calm down the panic that arose. How do you know when panic ends? When most people start to approach the danger of humor, they start to approach it with the attitude that it's not really that dangerous. After all, the danger is constantly there, people are dying, people are affected by this Coronavirus disease, yet they are beginning to approach this situation with humor and create a certain position in a society that is already able to overcome the crises that result from this. So I would like to recommend here to all of you that we do not deal with this in the form of a resolution that is prepared, but rather focus on the future and look for ways and solutions for the next subsequent pandemic. Here I will only allow a small historical excursion a few years back to 2015, when the Pandemic Health 2020 project was created, which prepared plans for the Czech Republic by 2020, precisely based on the analysis of SARS 1 experience, which is the current year of progress if these diseases happen to come here. Perhaps because of this we were partly prepared for this, we had capacity in the districts, we had capacity in the hospitals, how to proceed when this pandemic flu COVID-19 came. This is the right solution to these procedures. That is why I do not like the title of the point, so I do not like the attempt to give it some political outline, that it could also be used in the political struggle of the political parties. It's not good. This is a serious matter, and therefore we should approach this with all seriousness and not have an effort to gain political points. Thank you for your attention. And once again, let us try to be serious towards citizens too, let us not scare citizens, let us try to approach this with all seriousness and expertise, let us also let experts decide, and let us not try to make any proposals at all costs just to give the proposal. The evaluation is ahead of us, it will be evaluated for many years, believe me, remember the floods. And I believe that the subsequent crises that will come - and they will certainly come, if it is in a year, two, ten, fifty years, but they will - our successors will be ready to deal with perhaps better than we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u60	So I wish you a nice noon and now we have three Members in the general debate, respectively. two Members and one Minister. So now, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský will speak, Mrs Olga Richterová will prepare and Minister Alena Schillerová would like to speak as the very last one in the general debate, so we will see who else will come forward. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u61	Good noon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I was here on point 1 of the approved programme of the 50th emergency meeting already last week. Let me just remind you that I mentioned a few areas here that I think deserved a comment on the first wave of the coronavirus crisis in our country. I spoke here about the fact that in the first phase, in those first weeks, as representatives of the opposition, we supported the quarantine and barrier measures that the government introduced in our country in connection with COVID-19 infection. In my view, we also had a very helpful approach to the crisis legislation that we are in a great hurry here - and it was necessary for it to be approved as quickly as possible -. Here I must follow up on my colleague Ivan Bartoš, who mentioned that the opposition came here with a lot of constructive amendments, which the government did not hear mostly. But then she came up with some of them herself when we were fixing some of the laws here so-called, so in that second phase part of our proposals was used by the government. Of course, the important thing is that the changes were finally approved, but I don't think it's always been completely kosher. [[12.10 hours]] As representatives of the opposition, we have also been involved in the operation of the Central Crisis Staff, we have been given the opportunity, and I must say that we have not played any political games on the Central Crisis Staff. We tried to go there with topics and comments from practice and tried to discuss the problems that came in those advancing weeks to fight COVID-19 infection. Last week I also mentioned problems with purchases and distribution of protective equipment and other medical supplies. This will be covered by point 3 today, and I will briefly comment on this at the end of my speech. One of the problems that I have also mentioned here and which I think deserves a comment, and it has already been said here, was the problems with testing. We all know it was all chaotic at the beginning. And I don't blame anyone because we weren't fully prepared for PCR testing on COVID-19, but there was activity by private laboratories, there was an activity of academic workplaces, which responded very quickly to the situation, and both staffly and financially it cost them considerable effort. And we have also repeatedly mentioned on the Central Crisis Staff why the state is not using their capacity enough in a situation where we needed to test in social services when we needed to test to an increased degree in some regions, so this workplace, which had a daily capacity of 3.5 thousand PCR samples, was used only - 400 to 800 samples were received. And I don't think it's quite right, and I think it should be a lesson for the next wave we don't want, but it can happen, and we don't know if it's gonna happen, what time it's gonna be, what kind of force it's gonna be. I think that towards these laboratories we should rather be very helpful, because we really need their capacities, and it turns out that they were relatively operational even in how they were able to prepare very quickly and basically take up the testing system. Last week I also talked about how care was provided for the most vulnerable, which I consider seniors in community facilities, which are homes for seniors, nursing homes and other bedded social services. We all know that at the beginning of these operations, these facilities had a critical shortage of protective equipment. The availability was even greater than in health care and in some other areas. And I would like to thank you once again very much both for the management of these bedding and field facilities, because even those field workers who operate field social services came into contact with potentially infected people without sufficient equipment for protective equipment. And it is for all of them that this is a big thank-you because they have done it, and indeed, and this is shown by examples from other countries, that there has been a great evaluation of those sick people in many states and that there really was a big problem. And with us the increased deployment of all those workers, who have often been with these clients for 14 days 24 hours a day to avoid potentially infecting their family members, they really owe them a lot of thanks for making it through. Also in health care, it wasn't all as pink as it often seemed. Also here is a great thank you to the hospital management, but also to all the workers. And I'm not just talking about hospitals, I'm talking about other health services. Even there, at first, the great creativity and great commitment of those workers occurred that within a few days, at most two weeks, the medical facilities were prepared to receive potentially infected and, at the same time, to take care of patients who needed acute care with other health problems. They also owe them a lot of thanks. And we really should learn from being prepared to be equipped with the necessary protective devices in the future, and that will be a problem that we will still be discussing. Surely there would still be a number of other areas that would deserve commentary if we talked about helping the state the weakest, about helping companies, etc., but we will certainly get to that, and also here we have already talked about it by colleagues from the Pirate Party, from the ODS and from other political groups. In conclusion, I will only return to one area, and I have already announced it, and these are the purchases and distribution of protective equipment and other medical supplies needed to cope with the COVID-19 epidemic. I am also deeply convinced, based on experience from the Central Crisis Staff, but also from other consultations and also from what happened, of course, in the media space, that the two-trackness that was there in the purchase and distribution of protective equipment was one of the reasons why it did not work completely in the first few weeks. We enjoyed it at the edges, I think our mayors and the directors of all the services needed, whether it concerns health care, schools, social services, that it really wasn't that great at the beginning. We all know there were objective causes. Indeed, all of Europe did not have the protective equipment. But the fact that we were shopping for two resorts caused a lot of confusion and conjecture, and I don't think it should work that way in the future. I believe that this crucial activity, which is in a crisis situation, to secure protective equipment, should be under one resort. There should be one purchase system and one distribution system. Then it can work, then we can defend ourselves from all the conjecture, confusion, and maybe some kind of criminal announcement, and so on, who bought more efficiently, who did it better. So that is why I have prepared and, in a detailed debate, I will read the motion for a resolution, so that, in a possible second wave of pandemic COVID-19 or in any other serious disease that may affect our state, the purchase and distribution should be secured only by one resort, and in my opinion, even in accordance with crisis legislation, the Ministry of the Interior should be the resort. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention and I will also be happy to support the resolution that I will read in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u62	So now, Mrs Olga Richterová will come forward and prepare herself as the last Minister Alena Schillerová. Madame, please, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u63	Thank you for the floor. I'm doing a brief summary of what we said here during last Thursday and today for the pirát. I would like to begin by reminding you that a number of people at the beginning of the emergency have abandoned their normal work and have thrown themselves into aid in various areas. And the fact that so many people have deployed their capacity intellectually, their time in various kinds of aid, I think it is necessary to highlight, and then also to take into account that managing a possible second wave or another pandemic in the future will only be possible with the public's confidence that such a wave of solidarity makes sense. And just so that people don't lose that trust in state leadership, I will briefly sum up what is very important for us as a lesson and as a preparation for possible similar things in the future. So it's the update of the pandemic plan, and it's really going according to the pandemic plan, so it's the supporting skeleton for the government. We managed to get a clear organogram of the Central Crisis Staff on the info request of Jakub Michálek, but it's exactly the kind of thing that the public shouldn't get through our information request at the end of May, but it's information that's supposed to be available right at the beginning. It also took so long to obtain a list of professional working groups advising on the very important matters at the Ministry of Health. Third thing. Data to scientists. Even that was a very, very long one, I would almost say birth. Something's succeeded, but it's not quite finished yet. At the same time, these basic things - an organogram of the Central Crisis Staff, a list of advisory expert groups and members in them, and data for scientists - are the basis for that trust. To trust that decisions are justified and that those who propose them have the necessary qualifications and experience to do so. And the second thing is that, thanks to the greater transparency, there will be a reduction in the risk that key information will only be in one head; that really important decisions will depend only on the minimum number and these people will not be replaceable. [[12.20 hours]] The last thing I want to stress is all the public commitment, whether it's voluntary drapes sewing activities, but also the 3D print for shields and fans. These are all partial aids, which were extremely important, but without the managerial mastery of the top, without the coordination where the aids are most needed, and without the verification of capacity upgrades, the public can't do it alone. And that is what I would ask very much for all those who have been involved in the last two months, those measures to consider what lessons to learn for the best possible coordination and management of a possible pandemic in the future. And the last point. It turns out that many things then depend on the legal framework. And that where we lack the legal framework, that's where the smart quarantine is. So instead of throwing responsibility from all over the government into a single ministry, we propose - and this is very important, and I would like to underline this in conclusion - that the legal requirements necessary for a smart quarantine are probably anchored in the Public Health Act. That's what's really missing. This is a brief summary of the points with which we spoke during the negotiations for this evaluation. And I believe that we will be able to learn this lesson, that we will be able to make the pandemic plan, in fact, the plan to follow, and that such seeming details as an organogram of the Central Crisis Staff will be made publicly available from the beginning next time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u64	There. Now here I have two applications with priority rights. So Prime Minister Marian Jurečka will be the first to speak, and Minister Alena Schillerová will be prepared. I'll read an apology. Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologizes, between 13 and 19 o'clock for work reasons. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u65	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, a lot has been said here. Our MP KDU-ČSL colleague and doctor Vít Kaňkovský also described a lot of specific moments that should lead us to think about how we have managed this in the last three months and how to learn from this for possible future similar situations. I have a few more moments. I understand that this was an extremely difficult time in terms of the functioning and decision-making of the government. I agree with what Minister Zaorálek said here. I also agree that, thank God, we are among those countries that have turned out very well. We're not the best ones to ever sound, but let's say we're in the third of those who did it well. We also see the debates in Sweden today, where we are debating whether Swedish measures should have been more restrictive, stricter, more protective, etc. And yet there are some moments where I would like us, as the Chamber of Deputies, to get an evaluation of the government's progress very quickly, as well as the public and the public. This means that the moments that were being criticized here, whether it was a question of first-serving doctors and people in the front line of protective aids, then it was social services and people who work there. Whether it was then the procedures that then tuned at the last minute, etc., to make it clear that there is an update and setting of the right procedures and processes and that someone also says for you when these things will be updated, when they will be and how they would proceed in the future. It just seems to me that the debate here is still very general. They mention some things that obviously didn't turn out quite well, but I miss someone coming to the government and saying: We know now that we will have updated our procedures within two or three months. We know that next time we would clearly go through the purchase of medical aids through one ministry, etc. etc. To get someone to answer those questions. I don't know if Secretary Schillerová, if she's having the final performance after me, is going to say the same thing. I would not like to repeat the situations that we experienced here as well as the approach to Czech companies, when Minister of Health Vojtěch here said veřejně that he was buying cameras from Swiss manufacturers. Then it turns out it's not the manufacturer, it's the dealer, the cameras are from China. And they got them at a huge distance, actually, in a situation where the cameras weren't much use to them anymore. In order to also know that such steps that some leading Czech entrepreneurs have taken here - and for that they deserve to thank - are to be taken away from the fact that they will also be able to support their procedures financially. This means that if Mr. Průša and his company have printed protective equipment and we have included the citizens of the Czech Republic, I too have contributed a little bit, it does not seem completely systemic to me in a situation where billions of crowns are flowing into China. So the work of the Czech manufacturer, who saves a certain part of the spectrum that is missing, is composed by the public, and then it is commented by the members of the government that although the government did not give money for it, perhaps the public collection will suffice. This does not strike me as a normal procedure and how we should proceed with the care of proper farmers. I confess, I understand the issue of alcohol legislation, the supervision of the entire production and distribution of alcohol, I understand. But I confess that in exceptional situations, it is good to look for a really special solution. And then when we watched the case and developments around the company Žufánek, when they wanted to come up with some kind of help, and then it actually turned out that it came across legislative barriers, I didn't really feel good about it. And I would also like us to deal with these matters in the future, and also for the government or ministerial servants to listen to such people as Martin Hausenblas and his activities and his help, which he also carried out on his own line. But then when you read these people's comments, they actually say that today they're very disgusted that just the communication and cooperation with the officials involved and the authorities weren't quite good. [[I'd like to]] so that we can learn from these things, so that we know that if anything comes in the coming months, autumn, winter, etc., we will not solve the same problems in the operation and that we will be significantly better prepared for these problems. So I'm calling for that, and please, if the Vice Prime Minister could respond, say when a lot of the questions that have been asked here in this debate, if any of the officials of the various departments have followed it and if we can get an answer to it in any summary material, how do these suggestions or criticisms, which I think, at some moments, was appropriate, how does this translate into legislation, into procedures, into priorities, so that maybe next time we don't repeat these errors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u66	There. And now the last to speak is the Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. You have your word. Well, I don't know if it's the last one, but at this point, you're the last one logged in. Madam Secretary, please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u67	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I won't talk long. I had prepared a speech last week, where I wanted to talk about the specific measures we had prepared at the Ministry of Finance, but I think they are generally known either to have passed through this House directly or to be sufficiently publicized. And others, of course, will follow. [[12.30 hours]] But I was listening to the debate today, and I'm gonna talk about something else. I didn't want to go back to the past, but I kind of have to. Despite all the debate - and I want to say absolutely inconclusive and unattacked that it was mostly correct, except maybe for some exceptions that I won't go back to. From this place, I would like to say that the government - I do not complain, nor do I regret it, nor do I expect any reaction - that the government was really ahead of those two, two and a half, it flies terribly, three months in a completely unprecedented situation in the sense that we were built from one day to the next before the question of how to proceed, and before - at least I will speak for myself and I believe that I am speaking for other government colleagues - the hardest decision we have had to make in our lives was the hardest thing for me, which meant that we have reduced the personal freedoms and the personal rights of most citizens of this country. We've closed the borders, we've restricted our approach, we've restricted our business. That's what I think was basically something they've never had in the history of this country. And it was - I repeat - very complicated. However, history - I don't know if this meeting, I don't think so - will see if it was the right decision. I'm certainly not going to usurp any right now to evaluate it. We'll leave it to history. I'm sure it'll enter history. Personally, I think it's positive, and a number of previous speakers have said that the dilemmas that have been addressed in other countries have not been addressed. My colleagues said it, I won't say it again. The Minister of Health has been talking about Sweden, there has been talk about Italy and other countries, and I think that if something like this happened in the Czech Republic - and believe that our government would not really allow it - we would probably not have a government here at this point, I would just like to say that, and maybe we would be dealing with completely different and much worse topics. I remember, and I have to remind you here that when we took the first unpopular and very hard measures in those night meetings, I remember that at that time Adam Vojtěch, the Minister of Health - he didn't mention it here, I mentioned it behind him - it was before the border was closed, before the physical journey to Brussels was stopped, so he was at the health ministers meeting and he was very molded, if I'm telling the truth, for the measures, he was very much blamed for what we're doing here in the Czech Republic. So we did what we thought was best at the time, in harmony with our conscience. We have protected the health of our citizens and I will really leave the rest of the evaluation to history. But now it is very important to look to the future. That means we used the next time to help stop the greatest economic damage, because there was never any experience of shutting down the economy en bloc. Believe me, I am looking very honestly in the archives of the Ministry of Finance and I am trying - although there is no such historical experience, so I am looking for various measures from previous years. I'm not gonna judge right now. I have tables, I have a support table then, support table now - now it's not a topic, I don't want to just escalate it. I say to myself, if there was anything that was inspiring, I would also listen to the opinions that are being expressed here within the Chamber of Deputies and from opposition benches, if time allowed me to do so, because 38% of all the codis laws were prepared by the Ministry of Finance. It really worked there day and night. We did this with enthusiasm and a desire to help, but if time allowed me to do so, I also met with representatives of opposition parties and listened to their suggestions. Let's leave that history behind, and let's focus on economic aid now. We have helped the most vulnerable, we are trying to protect employment, we are trying to help the self-employed, we are trying to solve a blackout with regions, towns, municipalities. I will submit the first subsidy programme, which is evaluated, for schools and kindergartens on Monday to the government, for about 3.1 billion for municipalities up to 3,000. The others will follow. Of course, we are also talking about some possible compensation for those small ones who have the biggest problems with it, but we must also consider getting as much money into the economy as possible. I am pleased for the many laws that this Chamber of Deputies has supported, which have put into liquidity as of 31. 5. almost 60 billion already, and the figures, of course, continue. COVID III is starting, I had a meeting with representatives of the Czech Banking Association on Monday. I have COVID IV in my head, these are operating loans that would help with investment loans. We need to address the tourism issue, we are sitting on it tomorrow with Minister Dostálová, and a number of other measures. I don't want to escalate today, I don't want to create any more ditches here. I will be grateful and grateful for any suggestions that will contribute to the fact that this country will get out of the economic crisis as quickly as possible and will remain a sad memory of this part of our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u68	Now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Klaus apologizes for working reasons from 12 o'clock to the end of the day. Now I no longer register any application for a general debate, look around the hall, see none, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word. Not interested. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová first came forward, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u69	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my motion for a resolution, which I have already presented in the general debate. I'll read it to remind you, it's not long: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to establish a crisis manual for schools, which will contain precise procedure and individual measures, and where it will be precisely defined, which measures are recommendations which are legally binding and which schools are to follow for the duration of any pandemic; II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to draw up this manual and to provide it to schools by 31 August 2020 at the latest." I ask that this resolution be voted together. So I don't want to vote after points, please vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u70	I will now request a speech from Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Last application so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u71	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues, as I have already announced, I will now read the motion for a resolution of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Club on item 1 of today's programme: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to ensure the purchase and distribution of personal protective equipment, disinfection and other material to cope with the epidemic through the Ministry of the Interior and the Administration of State Material Reserves in the event of a second wave of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus epidemic or epidemic of other serious infectious diseases." Thank you for your attention and for your support for this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u72	I do not have another application for a detailed debate, so I conclude a detailed debate. More? There you go. In a detailed debate, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. You caught me just as I was taking over the proposal as rapporteur from my colleague -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u74	I'm going to ask you to calm down in the Chamber because I can't hear what the rapporteur is saying through the drape. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u75	Okay. [[He's taking off his drape.]] Well, I hope I don't splash too much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on behalf of the Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN to evaluate the course of the first wave of the pandemic of coronavirus in the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave. The motion for a resolution is contained in House document 5547 and reads as follows: 1. The Chamber of Deputies appeals to the Government for further negotiations and activities of the Central epidemiological Commission to be conducted on a regular basis in the future and to ensure their cooperation with international partners. 2. The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government of the Czech Republic to submit information to the Chamber of Deputies through the Prime Minister at least once every three months on the selected solutions and preparations for the possible arrival of another wave of the Coronavirus. [[12.40 hours]] 3. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to impose an update on the Health Ministry of the type plan for a mass disease epidemic with a deadline of 30 September 2020 and, in the case of the second wave, to proceed accordingly. 4. The Chamber of Deputies appeals to the government, ministries and subordinate organisations to provide Members with information under applicable laws and in defined terms. 5. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government, in the case of the second wave of the Coronavirus, to provide information to the public at regular and predetermined intervals, intelligible and factual terms, in adequate quantities and systemic terms for all public groups concerned. 6. The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government to present a testing strategy to the Chamber of Deputies for the second wave of the Coronavirus by 30 June 2020. 7. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to impose a clever quarantine concept on the Ministry of Health and present it to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 June 2020. 8. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to instruct the Ministry of Health to develop a system of pandemic alert levels with clear action and present it to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 July 2020. [[Noise in the hall.]] May I continue? 9. The Chamber of Deputies requests the Government to process and publish a comprehensive support plan for distance teaching in schools by 31 August 2020 so that this plan can be implemented from the beginning of the 2020/2021 school year if school attendance is reduced again. 10. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to prepare and publish by 31 August 2020 plans with scenarios on how schools will work in the event of possible further epidemiological threat, with prepared scenarios and proposed measures duly justified and their implementation determined on the basis of epidemiological indicators, thereby enabling the founders, schools and the public to anticipate possible measures based on developments in the epidemiological situation. 11. The Chamber of Deputies urges the Government and the Ministry of Culture to prepare a strategy for supporting e-books in public libraries in a new situation. These are the proposals that I am pointing out came out of today's negotiations in what we have received from our colleagues from ODS: 12. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to thank Taiwan, on behalf of the Czech Republic, for its free assistance in the form of protective equipment provided by the Czech Republic to combat Coronavirus. 13. By 30 June 2020, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to pay compensation to medical professionals who have been called to fight coronavirus for assistance in medical facilities. Last motion for a resolution: 14. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to prepare an investment list for the modernisation of medical equipment by 30 August 2020 and subsequently to upgrade this equipment. As far as the justification for these proposals is concerned, it has already been mentioned in the debate. I draw attention only to the fact that we have been discussing the issue of providing information so that Members actually receive the information as they are to receive it, and therefore the opposition can fully fulfil the role that it plays under the Constitution of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u76	Thank you. I'll read one more apology. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes from 12 to 13 hours for work reasons. I'm gonna take another look around, see if there's anyone from the scene yet. I don't see anyone missing anyone, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word. The appellant is not interested in the final word, you have already said everything, I presume, so we will proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. So I, the rapporteur - the rapporteur is also the rapporteur - will ask you to give it to us - or give it to me here. [[Informal briefing.]] So I confess that I do not have the resolution in my hand, but I do remember, however, that the first one gave the resolution, if you agree, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, in a detailed debate. The second was Mr Kaňkovský and the third was Mr Jakub Michálek. Is there any objection to voting in that order? [[Request off the microphone.]] Mr. Michálek - is there a request that the chairman of the club of the ANO movement says after points? [[Notes from the diaper.]] There. Excuse me, but let's talk to the microphone. There's more of you now. Please, first the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u77	If I may go to the procedure, we have three motions for a resolution - from Mrs Hyťhová, Mr Kaňkovský, and the Pirates' proposal, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN - and I will propose it in the procedure to vote after the last one that has been read. Mrs Hyťhová has asked for a full vote, but it may be that someone here will also request a vote after the points, so if necessary, sign in. So far, so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u78	I'd rather have the procedure voted. But Mr. Mr. Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u79	Mr President, I just want to point out that you have ended the debate, then Mr Michálek, Mr Michálek, has read something, and we are now to vote on it. After the end of the debate, do you have something to read in a detailed debate? One more time. You have closed the debate, and this is what has been read beyond the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u80	No, wait, what are we talking about right now? There was a detailed debate - you mean outside the detailed debate that it was loaded. [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Well, I wouldn't agree with that, because there's this situation where I basically looked around the room in one sentence, there were electronic applications, so this wasn't the electronic application I had on display, I looked at it, and in that one continuous sentence, when I saw someone else reporting, I went on. That's what I think is normal procedure, because in that number of people it could happen, there was basically no delay, that was one sentence. But if President Bartošek has something to say. So I stand by it that the sequel was okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u81	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. In this case, I would like to point out that such a procedure is not the first time in the case of the Chamber of Deputies, just for the sake of order, with the President registering that someone is still applying, and in that case he gave him the floor. That means it's not the first case. If you insist on a rigid procedure, we can discuss it, but it is not really the first case and it has not been disputed in the previous ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u82	So if there was any delay, I would understand that, but it was basically in one sentence. Otherwise, in this context, I would like to call again for you to report electronically as far as possible, so I can have it on display. However, everyone has the right to apply from the place, so of course there is no problem, but it was such a continuous sentence, so I think there really is no contradiction. So I guess now we're going to vote on the procedure, because there have been various proposals, if that is what you agree to, in this sense, as the rapporteur has suggested, and at the same time the applicant Michálek, that we would therefore vote on those resolutions. I'm gonna call everyone to the ballroom, make sure it's not even questioned at the next stage that we're gonna vote in different order here. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Question.]] For the proposed voting procedure on those resolutions. Who's against it? Voting number three, 159 Members signed in for 135, versus 1. The draft voting procedure has been adopted. Then I will ask the rapporteur and the plaintiff in one person, Mr Michálek, please show us around. Sorry, checkout request. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u83	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, we will be the first to vote on Mrs Hyťhová's proposal under the approved procedure, with votes being taken in whole. The proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to establish a crisis manual for schools, which will contain precise procedure and individual measures and where it will be precisely defined which measures are recommending and which, on the contrary, are legally binding and which schools are to follow during the possible outbreak; II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to draw up this manual and to provide it to schools by 31 August 2020 at the latest."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u84	Otherwise, we can do this because there was a very long last resolution in particular, so we can also solve it by asking the hall if everyone remembers it, and then we don't have to read it here again. It's also one option. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 135 Members registered, 78 against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u85	We will also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kaňkovský, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to ensure, in the case of a second wave of SARS-CoV-2 Corona epidemic or an epidemic of another serious infectious disease, the purchase and distribution of personal protective equipment, disinfection and other material to cope with the epidemic through the Ministry of the Interior and the Administration of State Material Reserves.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u86	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered is 137 Members, for 68, against one. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. But now you are right, because that last resolution will be voted on after the points that it will certainly be better to read it. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We will now vote on the various items of the motion for a resolution of the Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. The first point of the resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies urges the Government to conduct negotiations and other activities of the Central Epidemiology Commission on a regular basis in the future and to ensure its cooperation with international partners.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u88	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 136 Members registered, for 74, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Point two of the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government of the Czech Republic to submit information to the Chamber of Deputies through the Prime Minister at least once every three months on the selected solutions and preparations for the possible arrival of another wave of the Coronavirus."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u90	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered is 137 Members, for 74, against 1. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u91	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. We will continue with point three: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to update the Health Ministry's type plan for a mass disease epidemic by 30 September 2020 and, in the case of the second wave, to proceed.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u92	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 136 Members registered, for 128, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor. Item four of the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies appeals to the Government, ministries and subordinate organisations to provide information to Members under applicable laws and in defined terms.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u94	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 137 Members registered, for 74, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor. We are voting on paragraph five, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government, in the case of the second wave of the Coronavirus, to provide information to the public at regular and predetermined intervals, intelligible and factual terms, in adequate quantities and systematically for all groups concerned.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u96	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 137 Members registered, for 73, against 1. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u97	We are voting on paragraph six, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the Government to present a testing strategy to the Chamber of Deputies for the second wave of the Coronavirus by 30 June 2020.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u98	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 139 Members signed in, for 73, against 1. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u99	The following is paragraph seven, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to impose on the Ministry of Health the concept of a clever quarantine and to introduce it to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 June 2020.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u100	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 139 Members signed in, for 121, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u101	The following is paragraph eight, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to order the Ministry of Health to develop a system of pandemic alert levels with clear action and introduce it to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 July 2020.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u102	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 139 Members registered, for 74, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u103	The following is paragraph nine, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to process and publish a comprehensive support plan for distance teaching in schools until 31 August 2020 so that this plan can be implemented from the beginning of the 2020-2020 school year if there is a further reduction in school attendance.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u104	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 140 Members are logged in, for 80, against 1. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u105	Item 10: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to prepare and publish by 31 August 2020 plans with scenarios on how schools will work in the event of possible further epidemiological threat, with the proper justification for the prepared scenarios and measures proposed and their implementation being established on the basis of epidemiological indicators, thereby enabling the founders, schools and the public to anticipate possible measures based on the evolution of the epidemiological situation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u106	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 140 Members registered, for 74, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u107	We are voting on proposal number eleven, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is appealing to the Government and the Ministry of Culture to prepare a strategy to support e-books in public libraries in a new situation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u108	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 140 Members registered, for 119, against none. The motion was accepted. [[13.00 hours]] So I'm the only one who'd like to stretch out at this point so we can finish after 13 o'clock, so I hope you don't mind. I have the authority, but I'm just asking. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] So you're protesting it. Okay. Let's vote one more vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u109	We've already got six seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u110	It's 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u111	So may I suggest that we discuss the three resolutions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u112	We should stop at 1:00. It should be after some consensus. I may have the opportunity to continue, but if there are loud protests. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u113	There is nothing stopping us from making three resolutions, three votes. I don't know if it's gonna be accepted or not. But, of course, if anyone else has an opinion, they are to make a procedural motion, because under the Rules of Procedure, we can act after 13:00. There was no hour. So if anyone is protesting that we should act, whether he gives a procedural motion and in the vote we decide whether or not the procedural proposal will be adopted. For example, the interruption of a point until 14.30 is a voteable proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u114	I'd suggest we interrupt until 2:30 anyway. [[Dissenting voices.]] Chairman of the club ČSSD MP Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u115	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I think we've got a lot of use here, that it's really in the consensus. It always has been. This means that if at least two club presidents, the chairman of the ANO and the ČSSD, do not agree with this, then please continue at 14.30. I was supposed to be somewhere by 1:00. It's a good thing we're done at 1:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u116	Of course, if I interrupt now, we'll continue at 2:30. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u117	President Chvojka will confirm to me by your means that if we hadn't spoken for two minutes, we'd had the three votes behind us. I welcome the words about the consensus, so next time, let's say we negotiate after 19 when we agree, not that you overrule us. I'll just welcome it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u118	I didn't even understand you right now. I'm sorry. [[Glee in the hall.]] No, I'm seriously asking the Prime Minister if there was any suggestion, because it was a bit of a mess. So please, I'm gonna interrupt until 2:30. Before I interrupt, of course, I have a few more excuses to read, and then I will stop immediately. [[Members are already leaving the hall.]] Mrs Karla Šlechtová apologizes from 12.45 for health reasons, Mr Roman Sklenák apologizes - not attending today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for health reasons, Mr Marian Bojko apologises from 14.30 to the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Špičák apologises from 12.30 to the end of the meeting for health reasons, and Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologises from 14.30 to the end of the meeting for working reasons. I'm interrupting the meeting now. Meet me again at 14.30 and have a good taste.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u119	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will begin today's meeting day after lunch break. I'll read the apologies. Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová, today at the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, from 14.30 to 18.00 today for work Válek, Mr Antonín Staněk, from today's meeting today from 12.00 to the end of the day for working reasons, and tomorrow from 14.30 to the end of the day for working Votava, Mr Martin Baxa, from today's afternoon meeting, for working reasons, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, from 14.30 to midnight for reasons of family reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Tomáš Petříček, from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons. I would remind you that the discussion of this point, which we are discussing at the moment, is an evaluation of the course of the first wave of the pandemic in the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave, was interrupted before the midday break in the vote on the motion for a resolution of the Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. I would like the representatives of the plaintiffs and the rapporteur, Mr Jakub Michálek, to introduce us to the next procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, we voted in the morning on eleven resolutions, which were part of the House document 5547, and now we have to vote the last four resolutions, which were the contents of this document, according to the procedure already approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u121	There. I would ask all of you to keep your voice down, we will vote on the last four resolutions we have not voted on this morning. I'll check you all out, please sign up with your cards. If possible, take your seats and we will vote. Minister of Culture Zaorálek will vote with voting card 21. Did the MP ask me to do something? [[A Member of the War reports that he is present.]] Mrs Válková is canceling her apology. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We are now voting on paragraph 12, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government, on behalf of the Czech Republic, to thank Taiwan for its free assistance in the form of protective equipment provided by the Czech Republic to combat Coronavirus."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u123	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 17, 122 Members and Members signed in for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted. President Stanjura is going to check on the vote. [[Short silence.]] In the meantime, I'll read the apology. Mrs Monika Oborná cancels her apology today. So there's still a vote check going on... The paper's stuck in the printer, so... [[He's waiting a while.]] So, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to address the President of the Chamber of Deputies, President Radek Vondráček, at this point in time. Mr. Chairman, you liked taking pictures when you took the gift. You took a picture of yourself and praised yourself for accepting a gift from Taiwan. But to support a normal human request to thank you for your free help, you were heroically delayed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u125	Mr. Chairman Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u126	Thank you. I confess, I don't know how you colleagues had it, but my parents, my mom and dad taught me at home that when I get something, it's polite to thank you for being perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u127	I'd like us not to yell at each other because we're not gonna solve anything and we're just gonna extend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u128	If anyone else had it, it's probably his personal business, but that's how we were raised at home. And if the Czech Republic is in a situation where, as regards foreign policy and communication between countries at that international level, the Czech government is the Czech Republic's representative, and there is a problem when the House is here to call on the government to thank for this assistance - and the help has been very moderate in not having such marketing stickers on every box, that the Czech-Chinese friendship will persist and that you are receiving in quotation marks the help we pay for more than 10 billion, that the country that has significantly larger investments has arrived here has an impact on the fact that we are succeeding, that we have jobs and have come free of charge, has offered assistance to institutions, to some cities, organizations, and we only have to thank it politely by the voice of our government, so most of us here in the House will not be able to say: "Dear government, thank you for the help. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u129	President Vondráček, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the President of the Bartošek Club will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u130	I was basically summoned by President Stanjura. Mr Stanjuro through the President, I, with all due respect, do not understand this, your reply. I accepted a delegation here, a representative of Taiwan, and I thanked them for their protective equipment, and we gave it to the Boromeans. She thanked all the gifts the government received for all of them. And that I've been delayed - I've been delayed because I don't think we need to vote entirely on everything, that some things are taken for granted. [[Let's hear it for yes, CSSD.]] And if it was because of me that you went to check your votes and it took so long, you could have asked me, I would have told you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u131	Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček. We are after the debates concluded, factual remarks are not possible. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u132	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Members, I would like to stress first of all that the government has thanked all those who have helped us during the crisis. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly informed us from where we received donations, who sent us protection aids or other assistance from abroad. We certainly treated all the gifts in the same way; we did not express ourselves to any state in any non-standard way. I personally thanked everyone who helped the Czech Republic in the crisis. I'm sure the government has acted here, pardon me, fall in line, thank everyone equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u133	President of the Bartošek Club, the President of the Stanjura Club will be prepared with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u134	Thank you. Technically first. As the Minister has spoken, the debate is reopened. That's for starters. Thank you. [[A voice from the diaper.]] That's good.) Yes, it's good, I appreciate it. I just want us to know what stage of the negotiations we're at. Second thing. If, my dear colleagues, first of all from the YES movement, you did not raise your hand to thank wan, so if it is standing with planes from China and thanking them in the log, then let me publicly thank you here for at least us who voted in favour of this resolution, wan and its government for the selfless assistance provided by the Czech Republic, because I believe that when the government helps, it is necessary to thank them, and - was one of those who helped us, so thank them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u135	Thank you. I do not agree with the view that a debate is open by the Minister because we are already in the course of the vote on the various motions for resolutions. The President of Stanjura shall speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u136	Firstly, Mr Vondráček through the Vice-President, I did not call you to the microphone. Secondly, President Vondráček, through the Vice-President, I said that the paper was stuck in the printer, and you mock me here that it took a long time for me to look at your vote, and your colleagues applaud you. Yes, the evil opposition arranged that the printer did not print and I could not check the vote. Indeed, that is the course of the opposition. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Thirdly, Mr Vondráček through the Vice-President, I remember the photos. I was glad you joined and accepted the delegation. Really. And I didn't think for a moment - and by any chance I noticed how you voted, I went to check it for other reasons, I didn't think of it and it seemed strange to me, and you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, had the opportunity to say "this resolution is useless during the debate, we have already thanked it then and then" or "this resolution is too narrow, we have other states that have helped us free of charge, add other states to it" but in the strong pro-Chinese propaganda that we have seen here, we felt especially grateful to Taiwan, but if you had added the resolution about other countries that have helped us free of charge, then, of course, we would have supported it, there is no problem. You had the motion for a resolution at your disposal before the end of the debate, so please do not blame us for what you might like to see there. You had the opportunity to expand, possibly explain that the government had already done it, and we would say 'Excellent, thank you, dear government, there will be no more voting on this proposal'. Then I would ask - it doesn't have to be on the microphone - the Foreign Minister, whether he gives me either a government resolution or how she did it. If so, I really appreciate it. It wasn't an open door if we knew it was open. If there are other states that have helped us free of charge, I would ask you to tell us so that we can appreciate all those who have helped us free of charge. We just wanted to put it against each other - how can I put it? If he's so ceremonially thanking himself for buying something - I don't usually thank you when I pay at the checkout. Most of the time, no. Thank you so much for selling it to me. Okay, well, you do, but I want to see it. [[Noise and revival in the hall.]] Well, I'll come with you next time, and I'll check it out a little bit. I thought it was undignified. Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, Second Vice Prime Minister, Ceremonial Speech, etc. That's why we wanted to appreciate that there was another state that gave it to us free of charge that didn't sell it to us. I really appreciated that the two chairmen of the two parliamentary chambers took over in person. I really appreciate it. That's why I was surprised by your vote, and that's why I asked, but I didn't go there because of you and I didn't hold up the press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u137	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u138	Thank you for the floor. Of course, it's okay, and thank you for thanking the government. But we wanted to thank Taiwan as the Chamber of Deputies. We're not the government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u139	Please don't shout at yourself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u140	I don't know why it triggers such emotions. But, of course, the second thing is - you can tell them by their deeds. And we were already signing here before New Year's Eve to make Tchaj a full member of the World Health Organization, because at a time when China was still fogging what was happening to them and how the pandemic continues, wan was already actively acting and said that this situation had to be addressed. And I firmly believe that the Czech Government will be active in this, and I am happy to learn the answer to the question whether the Czech Government will advocate Taiwan to become a full member of the World Health Organization, because given the way in which it acted responsibly and did not conceal information, I think that it deserves WHO membership fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u141	Thank you. President Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u142	Don't worry, I won't go back to that. I would like to say that the Parliament of the Czech Republic, at least according to my information, received two donations, both from Taiwan, and currently 30,000 drapes are prepared at our representative office as a gift to the Parliament of the Czech Republic from the Republic of Vietnam. I would also like to thank her at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u143	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur, Michálek, to take us through the next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We will now vote on resolution 13, which reads as follows: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to pay the remuneration to medical professionals who have been called up to fight coronavirus to assist in medical facilities by 30 June 2020.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u145	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 18, 141 Members and Members signed in for 67, no one opposed it. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u146	We will now vote on the last motion for a resolution number 14, which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to draw up an investment list by 30 August 2020 for the modernisation of medical equipment and subsequently to upgrade this equipment'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u147	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 19, 142 Members and Members, in favour of 65, against 1. The motion was denied. This has dealt with all the resolutions. I'm done discussing this point. [[They're still reporting the word of the rapporteur.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u148	Thank you for the floor. I'm still the chairman of the club with priority rights. I wanted to thank you, fellow Members, for voting for the first eleven resolutions. I think they symbolically close the period of the first wave of pandemic in the Czech Republic. I think that we have drawn adequate and sufficient conclusions in this area in relation to the proper functioning of the epidemiology commission, to better prepare ourselves, to update the plans based on what we have learned from the epidemic, to complete the testing strategy and all the other points that we have approved here. Once again, thank you sincerely for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-050-02-001-001.u149	Thank you. We're going to come up with another point, and that's the point.
