ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u1	9. Government bill on some measures to mitigate the impact of SARS CoV-2 on tenants of premises serving business /house printing 816/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade, and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me introduce you to the Government's proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic. It is a law that directly concerns those who are in relation as tenants to the landlord, namely those tenants who have been ordered by the government, by regulation, withdrawn from their business, from their business, in other words those who had to close their premises during March. The vast majority were retail establishments or service establishments. In the proposal for this law, we are based on the possibility of partial relief for these tenants, who are now in a position to have income at zero level, although, of course, they have the costs they have to incur. It is true that these costs are partly alleviated, or they will be able to mitigate them by being able to compensate wages, at an amount of 80 percent of the supergross wage for employees who were or would be in those stores, and who are dependent at this point in their relationship, however, are at home. At the same time, if they are not legal persons, they can benefit from the various benefits that we offer them in the framework of self-employed persons, whether the 25,000 or social, health and medical benefits. But in any case, rent is one of the basic costs, significant costs, and it is true that these companies are getting into big trouble. It must be rightly said that the landlords are actually trying to accommodate them in a number of cases. However, it is not possible to flat-rate, sometimes the landlord behaves very correct, can negotiate with the tenant for a delay, sometimes even forgives him partially, sometimes does not agree with him. In fact, by this law, we are trying to reconcile the regime with, say, the legislative levels so that, to some extent, what is happening today, we are giving it some kind of legal framework. Of course, there may be an argument as to why we are going into this. We're entering this because even if it were only 20 percent, 25, and we don't have that number, 30 of those landlords who can't deal with the tenant, the tenant wouldn't be to blame for his own economic problems caused by his lack of skill, but by simply being in a situation where he's in the frame of coronavirus and can't operate, so he probably would have ended, maybe he went bankrupt. We were inspired by a German model. I dare say that we copied it almost identically when, unlike, for example, the Polish model, which is relatively, I dare say, almost brutal to the landlords, the German model allows for three months plus, possibly another three months, for the tenant to apply for his landlord, and if the landlord, and submits that he is unable to repay as a result of the coronavirus, the landlord cannot give him notice at that time. And de facto, that's what we're putting forward. We're not saying the tenant shouldn't pay. We're just saying that-- and the deadline is until 30. 6. - if, during this period and at this time, the tenant, who, I repeat, has been removed from his livelihood, that is to say, legally, virtually. By order of the government, he cannot operate his business or his business or his business, so that he has the opportunity to ask that the landlord does not give him notice, and the landlord simply cannot give him 30. 6. We were also inspired by the German model What next. Because what we're saying is that it's not possible for this to be over by just giving him three months' delay, and then he's going to pay immediately, so we're just going to push the situation into the fact that if he hadn't been destroyed in quotation marks for the first three months, he would have ended up in July or August, because we can assume that he wouldn't have paid it immediately, so we're going to propose a withdrawal period, a time limit until he has to pay the rent for a period of up to 31. 3. 2022. In other words, it's two years since the pre-start of these problems, or the beginning of coronavirus. At the same time, I would like to say that in the proposal we propose that this will include services. However, and this must be rightly said, there was a discussion on the Economic Committee, I must say that the discussion was very substantive, it was not idealized, and there were a number of reasonable proposals, so we are prepared to respect that, accept that, and not to put the services associated with the rent in it. I have seen the amendments, we identify with many of them. I'd say there's no principle problem. Where we have a problem, and that's a thing we didn't put into law, it's legal in any way to enter VAT, not because we didn't realize the problem for the landlord, because if he had to issue invoices, the tenant wouldn't pay him until 30. 6. At that point, he is, of course, obliged to pay the VAT, and the logical question is why he should do it. It is possible to do this in parallel, and in a more elegant way, simply by applying to the Financial Administration, and the Financial Administration is ready to respect it. Similarly, we did not impose any obligation on the law to accept state guarantees. Again, not because we are not prepared to provide those guarantees, but because it cannot be completely ambushed. Those tenants and landlords, they're tens of thousands of different relationships. However, we are preparing a special programme within the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, which will be called COVID-Hire, which will address this on request. The point is that in many cases it won't even necessarily be necessary to deal with it, because they will agree, the landlord with the tenant, together. However, in the event that the landlord requires it, it is possible to proceed to this instrument. I think I've been trying to explain it from a lot of angles. Once again, I would like to thank everyone for the ongoing discussion. I am, of course, prepared to respond to your questions and to some extent, as I have already suggested, to identify myself with some of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u3	Thank you. The Economic Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 816/2. And now, Mr Petr Dolínek, the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, will take the floor, who will inform us of the discussion of this proposal on the committee and the possible amendments will certainly justify it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in time the resolution of the Economic Committee is, therefore, referring to the fact that, firstly, the Committee proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill, secondly, proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that all parts of the bill be discussed in detail, thirdly, that the Chamber of Deputies end its negotiations at this point no later than 24 o'clock on 8 April, and fourthly empowers me to introduce you to it. As you may have noticed, the binding resolution on support or not supporting the law as a whole is missing, since the committee did not ultimately adopt either a positive or a negative resolution. However, at its meeting, the Committee dealt with two amendments, one of the workshops of Mrs Kovářová and some other Members, and one of the workshops of the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Fiala and some colleagues. There was no positive resolution in the case of Mr Fiala's amendments. In the case of amendments by Mrs Kovářová, the Committee has given a positive opinion on all parts of the amendment. However, of course, we are now getting to this B because, as you know, the system is now a little different in law-making, so MEPs could and can still record amendments, and at this point I am registering as rapporteur in a system of 16 amendments, where, of course, some of the proposals are duplicated or almost duplicated. Some are dealing with areas that the Minister has said in a friendly manner, which means that he is dealing with some of the issues that have arisen from the debate, and some of them are, of course, a little bit more aggressive. It depends now, therefore, on how anyone will sign up for the amendments, because the debate has really been running very intensively for the last five days. For example, I will no longer be applying to my proposals at the moment, because they are duplicated and because these proposals are dealt with in a different way, and, of course, then at the end of the discussion and signing up to the amendments, we will have to prepare with legislation such a voting procedure and procedure, so that we first vote on proposals that are almost comprehensively amended, and only then the partial ones, because, as I looked at the proposals, some of them actually solve more parameters of the law, and we must then resolve the order of the vote. I would like to thank the Minister here that, before the debate begins, he presented a friendly position on the fact that the Ministry is able to accept some of the proposals that will be heard, because the debate will certainly be easier now than if it had not been built in this way. I would also like to mention, as rapporteur, what I have mentioned to the committee as such, that this standard, and consequently it will be a standard concerning even apartments, is something revolutionary that has never been discussed here in the last 30 years and has never been so aggressively engaged in private relations. And I have asked the committee to do this, and I will also ask here that you approach this with a certain degree of long - suffering, because it really does not have a precedent here in the legal system of the Czech Republic, and it really is a very special matter. And let us try in this way, as the Minister has described, that it was up to the committee, also here to come in a matter of fact to the debate, and not ideologically, because perhaps everyone here, perhaps a few exceptions, but we are all aware that this is not a step that we would all welcome. That we have to enter into these relationships like this. But the current situation requires it, so let's really try to deal with it in a matter of fact. Thank you and then, of course, I will comment on the procedure and other requirements. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u5	Thank you. And Mr Kubíček is reporting with a procedural proposal, I presume. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Again, I propose limiting the time in the general and detailed debate for one Member to one speech and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u7	Thank you. There is therefore a proposal to limit the time for Members to five minutes. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. and I'll do it again. And then I'll put it to a vote like that. At the same time, I assume that after the second reading, we would interrupt this proposal and move on to the next proposal by the Minister, and then we had the third reading in a row, as originally agreed. I don't think there should be a problem with that. . I think that everyone who wanted to be here is already here, and I am opening the vote on reducing the speaker's time to five minutes. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 96 Members and Members in the 115 vote, for 58, against 9. I'm stating that the proposal has been accepted, so we've reduced the speaking time to five minutes. I, therefore, am opening a general debate at the moment, if no one has anything against it, in accordance with the committee's proposal. And the first one is Mrs Kořanová, who is already heading for the microphone, in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me briefly comment on my amendment, which is very short and simple. Even Minister Havlíček mentioned him here. It is really simple that if the tenant is allowed to defer the rent, this should also apply to the services associated with the use of the space used for business. The reason is simple that the landlords still have to pay all energy or all costs to energy suppliers and other services, so this would be unfair if it remained in that law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u9	Thank you. Five minutes haven't even been used. Now, please, Mrs Šafránková, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present to you the amendment I am proposing under the SPD. As with the government's proposal to rent housing premises, we propose that landlords - legal persons of real estate and business premises be entitled to exclude from the corporate tax base those claims on rents that have become so-called. the relevant period defined by the draft law due but not actually paid by the tenants. We therefore propose that these claims be transferred to the corporate tax base for the calendar year in which their real payment takes place. Furthermore, we also propose that landlords be entitled to exclude taxable transactions from unpaid rental premises intended for business from their value added tax liability for a period in which the tenant did not pay the tax either. The value added tax would thus be included in the taxable transactions only during the period when the payment is actually received. The main purpose of the adjustment is to avoid the fact that, as a result of a two-year deferral of rent payments by tenants, the lessor's premises for business will be in a situation where they will be obliged to pay corporate tax and value added tax from these invoiced payments, while not actually being paid for the rent in the long term. The owner of the space will thus have to tax the invoiced rent, but he will not receive it, which is another significant intervention in his management, which can put him into serious existential difficulties and lead to the liquidation of his company. Our amendment would allow landlords to postpone the taxation of unpaid rent and the levy of value added tax until its actual remuneration, giving them at least a chance to survive this difficult period economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u11	Thank you. And now, Mrs Kovářová, and Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u12	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you the amendment that I tabled to the Economic Committee, where a positive opinion has been expressed on it, for which I thank you. And I'd just give you a brief look at it. These adjustments relate to § 3 (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) In the event of a delay, the words "at the relevant time' shall be inserted after the words "if there has been a delay'. This implies that point (a) is then deleted and other provisions will also be deleted. It is necessary to delete this because it can be expected that it will often be problematic for tenants to show that the delay occurred mainly due to the epidemic. The proposed provision creates unjustified differences e.g. in the sense that repayment of loans is deferred to all without proof, whereas the tenant must justify his delay. I would also point out that in Section 3, the originally marked paragraph 4, which will be renumbered, is added. The following sentence shall be inserted before the beginning of this paragraph: "The tenant shall be obliged to pay all claims which have become due at the relevant time and which the tenant has not properly paid up until the end of the protection period'. It is clear that the law does not deal with the maturity of the lessor's outstanding claims against the tenant, which became due at the relevant time and which the tenant did not pay at the relevant time. We therefore propose that the tenants be obliged to pay such claims by the end of the protection period. This will also determine the moment at which the landlord will be allowed to recover unpaid rents from the tenant. Then the words - that is, in the originally marked paragraph 4 - "or if they become otherwise dubious " are released. This is a very vague provision - that is why this is added there - which has the potential to cause interpretation disputes in practice. That's why we're proposing his release. The following shall be added to the original paragraph 4 of the text: "If the lease expires or ends before the expiry of the protection period, the tenant shall be obliged to pay all claims which have become due at the relevant time within 30 days of the termination or termination of the lease'. And the last point is the change in Section 4, when the words "after the circumstances have passed..." and so on are replaced by the words "after the decisive period." So this is the first amendment that we are proposing, and I am presenting it together with my colleague Farský. Then I would also like to put forward an amendment which states that services that are connected with the use of space for business must be de facto covered, because, as has already been said, they are in fact face-to-face and could create significant problems. And only if we compare it essentially with that law 815 is the House press, where the services - there it concerns apartments and non-residential premises - where the tenant must pay the services. So I think what's getting easier is that we're essentially moving the risk to the landlords, and we're basically taking the responsibilities out of the tenants. So, colleagues, I will sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u13	Thank you. Now, Mr Munzar, Mrs Válková will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, hello. I would like to introduce you to the ODS club's position and gradually to eight amendments. I may present them in a detailed debate for limited time. So first of all, about our position. We understand the effort to help people who get into trouble with paying rent. We understand that there are lots of establishments closed, entrepreneurs don't have sales, they don't have revenue. And I'm just pointing out that we've proposed a lot of measures here beyond the proposed government and approved here in the House to help entrepreneurs and businesses directly. We are certainly in favour of the state helping even in such a situation between the tenant and the landlord, but the best form would be to help the tenants directly, which would be better if they didn't have a problem with paying the rent. Or, for example, a balanced approach and a fair distribution between tenants, landlords and the state. But we have considerable reservations about the proposal put forward by the government, as it is designed, because the principle of one-sided transfer of the risk of insolvency from tenants to landlords cannot be fully accepted. Helping one group at the expense of another is not a solution. The landlords will not be deprived of the obligation to pay the cost of the property holding, whether it is, for example, contributions to the repair fund if the establishment is in the housing house, or the repayment of the loan, investment, energy and services costs, if they are included in the lease and many others. These costs are paid by the landlord from the rent income. I am not sure that, in particular, the smaller landlords have sufficient reserves to carry the financial burden 100% without adequate income. In addition, if they were to pay taxes on this non-realised income, for example by the Minister of VAT. To this end, it should be pointed out that each landlord knows the situation of its tenant and a reasonable landlord can negotiate with the tenant even without State intervention. There are landlords who already lower their tenant's rent today because they don't want to lose it and would hardly be looking for a replacement for existing tenants today. And this agreement between two contractual partners works without State interference. If the government comes up with some balanced solution to help one group, it will adequately burden, not liquidating, the other group, with some active financial state aid, we would very much like to discuss it. But we don't have that kind of decision on our desk today. And in our opinion, it is not possible for it to come up first with a not-so-thought-out proposal, and only after the opposition of the landlords has been raised, are discussions about substitutes and solutions for the landlords to be allowed. Today we have a proposal that moves, as I mentioned, the risk of insolvency on the landlords, but we don't know that, and the government probably doesn't know that today, what possible compensation and solutions will be for the landlords. As the proposal is formulated, the State enters into private relations and enters into the exercise of property rights. And today we face the cardinal and key question of this proposal: how would this law succeed in a constitutional test? Because it is a restriction of law in the public interest, but another constitutional condition is not met by this proposal, and this is a substitute for that restriction. And getting tenants and landlords into a state where they wake up to some expectations based on a law that can be challenged by the Constitutional Court, and thus getting them into even greater uncertainty, it does not seem fair to me in today's situation. I must say that even the media presentation by the members of the government on this proposal was frankly not entirely happy. And that is because many people and entrepreneurs have succumbed to the impression that this is a clean shift of rent payments in time, without penalty. At the beginning, I too succumbed to the feeling of those endless press releases. But it turns out, and I specifically asked the representatives of the Ministry at the meeting of the Economic Committee, and it was confirmed to me from their side that this was not the case. Such deferred rents may be subject to the penalty provisions of our legislation and. [[Nesroz.]] [[The President: The Member has been voted five minutes.]] I understand. I will continue with the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u15	Copy that. And now a Member of the Válková. Mr Luzar will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u16	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I am also not easily spoken of in relation to this bill, because, as my previous speaker said, although this is a very exceptional situation, it must always be dealt with, taking into account what the final position, or the verdict of a possible constitutional review, will then be. I therefore propose, in my amendment, at least some amendments which I hope will at least partially comply with the possible review, or at least increase the likelihood that this law will be approved as constitutionally conformary. In particular, the amendment concerns the date referred to in Section 1 of paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The next change concerns what Mrs Kovářová, by your means, Mr President, has already pointed out, however, I assume that the legislative change contained in the discharge of the'services connected' and replaced with the word 'connected rent' is more accurate. In particular, it is proposed that the original proposal to ban unilateral termination of the lease in the protection period apply only to situations of non-payment of rent, not to the non-payment of services related to the use of the premises. And that's where it stays. This is being clarified and should remain there "with the use of space for business by the tenant," which, Mrs Kovářová, seems to have fallen out there by your means, Mr President. And then it's more of a formula thing. In Article 3, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) it is proposed to abolish the word 'primarily', because I think it could cause such interpretational problems that it would end unnecessarily in some cases by litigation. In point 4, I propose replacing the term "search cards" with another term "rental debts" so that it becomes clear, in turn, what is going on here. Finally, the last change is that, in Article 4, the last part of the sentence is deleted, "in particular, if the lease is the only source of its livelihood', because it can be included in the more general statement, unless it is fair for the entrepreneur to bear the limitation to the specified extent. And just putting this case in, I think, could also cause confusion in the interpretation. I will, of course, sign up for this in a detailed debate. It was inserted into the system under number 4875, but I'll say that again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u17	Thank you. And now I am in a slightly more difficult situation because, with priority right, Mr Farský, President of the Válková, applied for me, but before that, they wanted to exercise the priority right of Mrs Pekarová, Member Bartošek, but only to Members Luzar. So if no one objects to any of those who have exercised priority rights before, I will now give the floor to Members of Farský. Then Member Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u18	Thank you. It was such a puzzle, but it was solved. I hope this law can be resolved as well. The Minister's opening words almost made it seem as if he was helping the state here, as if he was taking on the burden and responsibility for his decision, but that's not the case. In this case, the state simply transfers the consequences of its decision-making to the landlord. That's just the way it is. He neither helps landlords, nor helps tenants, but tells landlords to help tenants, and maybe he wants to be praised for it. I really don't. It's just that the crisis that is objectively in our society is spreading to other and other entities. And I'm criticizing it. We have proposed a solution that was much more logical, simpler, and that is a solution in that the state, in the case of operations where it limited their business in a fundamental way, simply to those tenants, helped those entrepreneurs with fixed costs so that they could pay rent so that there might not be any moratorium that extends here. That's something that the government coalition has rejected, and what they're thinking is that we're going to stretch out the problem that we have in time and, on the one hand, expand into the economy. Because, of course, the landlords in many cases have to pay their mortgages. We've already discussed how interest will be reduced, or how interest will be reduced, how repayment will be extended, how banks will be appealed. They must, of course, contribute to the funds, they must also pay for the services. This may eventually be resolved by means of amendments. But wouldn't it be far easiest in terms of administration and funding if you took the opposition proposal and simply helped entrepreneurs with the fixed costs? Now, what we've heard here is that perhaps the landlords will be able to ask for some kind of loan that if they're in crisis, so that they can bridge it again. Why are we doing this insanely complicated? Why are we expanding this to society? We burden tens, hundreds and thousands of officials with this extremely complicated administration, of course we also complicate the fact that in the future it will be managed, controlled, edited. All these people will have to be paid. All their steps will then be subsequently checked. And we make this crisis an even bigger and longer crisis. That's why this law doesn't make much sense. And why doesn't it make sense? Because those establishments that are closed, and that doesn't make any money for the rent, they're chosen in a very random way. I can't find any logic in which establishments remain closed and which are opened. I've been going over the Ministry of Health's decision and his justification. Look at the justification, you won't lose much time because I have a few lines. It's just not explained there. Although it has such a profound influence. So the hobby markets open, but the music business stays closed. The jewelry stores remain closed, the clock shops remain closed, the bookstores remain closed. And we're causing them a lot of trouble to pay their rent. And instead of thinking about why it's necessary here that, when there are huge movements of the population in supermarkets, instead of hastening that, in keeping with the hygiene conditions, whether it's disinfectant or the number of shoppers, they're allowed to work so that they can pay the rent, we're figuring out that we're going to burden their landlords and create some kind of subsidy program for them. Why in God's name are you making all this so difficult? All we had to do was put the money on their fixed costs and, in a reasonable time, release with some logic that, don't be angry, but I don't see it yet. When we open children's shoes and paper shops, but the operations listed remain closed, there's really no logic in it. But by opening some, closing some, you prolong the problem. Why are you doing this so complicated? What's complicated is going to be complicated administration, it's going to be expensive, it's going to be stretching. Please, let's make this as simple as possible. And since the law is being prepared here, let's make it as clear and reasonable as possible. I know we don't have the strength for this bill to fail here, but I appeal to you, please forgive the amendments that they are from the opposition, and support them because they are improving the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u19	Thank you. And now, with a proper application, Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to be able to perform almost for the last time, because I have heard the proposals of the honourable colleague here. Wars through you and spared me a lot of the words I wanted to say here. And I think that when I see her proposal in writing that we will support it, because it responds to most of the comments that have been made in the discussion of the Economic Committee, the factual ones that we have encountered in getting to know this proposal. At the same time, I have here the basis of the Economic Committee, when he met with a certain support proposal by colleague Kovářová and Farský, which details a little bit better about the law. And if I have information, the Ministry has found some consensus here in these proposals, and I assume their position will be positive. As for the other proposals, I can understand the petitioner, and my previous speaker quite talked about it. There's one thing that puzzles me. So far, we've been dealing with the aid of the state to those affected, at risk. Logically. And we talked about how the state, now the bad state in quotation marks, helps the good, or should help those good, the salt of the Czech industry, entrepreneurs, whether it's the self-employed, whether it's bigger or smaller companies. And they were in the same boat. And the bad state won't let go as much as they should get. It sounded from the true spectrum of this House. Now we're in a situation where the good guys split into nicer and bad guys. They're all businessmen. But instead of everyone understanding the situation that has occurred, and we are all in it as citizens of this country, not guilty, it is a higher power, so there is a group that says: but we do not want to be disabled, we still want to be given, and we do not want the state to be responsible, the problem to us. On the previous points, this was about banks that did not want to lose their interest. Now we're talking that they're landlords who don't want to lose their regular payments. But for me, knowledge is that there's talk of entrepreneurs who don't make money in their business. Because, of course, if he has a financial reserve, he'll pay the rent. I don't think there's a reason. He's got enough. You earned it. He's just going to postpone some of the necessary payments he had, and he's going to make the rent. Because he understands that his colleague, the partner, the entrepreneur who rents him, also has these problems. Or it's automatically assumed that there's a real wolf, a wolf pack, stronger wins. On the other hand, it's assumed that the landlords also live without a spare. They're poor people. They won't have mortgage payments. They all picked it up, and now... So if I had to cut my speech short, maybe the government was too nice here. Or let's try to make an amendment at this point and say that if the big one, the landlord, proves that he doesn't have the money to pay off his mortgages and others, and that it's just such a big intervention, then let's talk about it. But how many of these landlords are there? And that doesn't ring a bell. And I'm sad about it, because I've always taken that block of entrepreneurs as one group that has common interests. But now this block has split into two parts and these two parts are fighting each other, which can gain more on the state, or which will be the more affected by the state. I'm sorry, I confess. And I think that we are in a time and a situation where we all have these problems, we all suffer somehow, some healthy, some economically. But we're still in the same boat. And I don't consider the distribution of these groups to be right among myself. We as a club will, of course, take a vote on this, as I indicated at the beginning, because here is the solution, there is an effort. But it is also a warning to the petitioner that he may not run on a pitchfork with too much goodness and that the excessive help will eventually turn against him, because he will always be someone who will not be 100% satisfied. And finding that compromise is a big problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u21	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. We will now get to the priority rights in this debate - Mrs Pekarová and Mr Bartošek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u22	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a lawyer, which is why I have been working on proposals relating to deferment of rents, not only to this law, but also to the one that is still waiting for us, which concerns apartments, really legal assessment. And I must say that we really cannot vote in favour of such proposals that are on the verge of constitutionality. Although the explanatory memorandum says on both proposals that the legal framework is respected, however, the lawyers that we have turned to and who have been engaged in housing law for a long time and who are also engaged in these private relations have received a completely opposite view. And I would like to support some of the opinions that have already been expressed here, and that is, even in this area, that we are really moving the problem from one group only to another and creating a kind of domino effect that only puts off the problem of not paying rents somewhere in the future. And since this is a really dangerous phenomenon, which, on the basis of this opinion, which I have on seven sides, I do not want to read all of them here, I do not want to read all of the complaints that are on this proposal, so clearly show that it is not really possible to support the proposal. I would like to poke one crucial thing out of this, which is very dangerous and which I consider to be inadequate and justified, because in both of the two proposals - and I apologize that I am mixing both issues here now, but they are very close, and it is really possible to at least do so in one contribution, because it actually applies to the point that is yet to come, point 13 - so it is not clear from the draft of both laws how to understand the obligation of tenants to prove to the landlord without undue delay and with a certainty corresponding to the facts available to the circumstances of delay, i.e. that this was due to the real limitation of the conavir. So how can a tenant document that? Or how is he supposed to document it? Does he need papers from the authorities? Is it enough to make a statement? Or how will it be judged? Who's gonna decide anyway? Well, that's one of those reservations that comes out here and I think is completely legitimate. Why is it also not possible not to pay rent at the relevant time conditional, for example, on the debtor's debt to the lessor over the period preceding the relevant period, as is the case with banks and the deferral of the loans that we have dealt with? So here you can see that really the input in this is in some ways preconceived, it brings more risks. And we wouldn't want the dominoes to really start here, which will just take responsibility for another group. Yesterday, when we were discussing support for entrepreneurs here, the opposition also came up with a proposal that concerned the rental and payment of the premises, for establishments that must be closed because of the government's regulation. Government parties here have not supported this proposal. We have actually proposed assistance with this fixed load of 100 percent, respectively. 80 per cent if the store was only limited, not completely closed. That would be exactly the kind of system solution that wouldn't trigger this spiral of other secondary problems, secondary insolvency that wouldn't trigger all the things that are here. [[17.10 hours]] I want to make it clear that we will not only not support this proposal, but we already have information from our fellow Members in the Senate that, of course, if it passes in the form that is proposed here, they cannot support it. I intend to say this in advance so that you can also think about it when you vote whether you really want to support a proposal that is very problematic from the point of view of the conflict with our constitutional order, and I fear that it can end just as I think some of the previous speakers have already said, that unfortunately it can still end in the Constitutional Court, and this brings great uncertainty to the tenants themselves, let alone the owners. I don't think there's any point in discussing the technical reservations and reservations that are strictly legal. I wanted to convey this very general view as our position on this proposal. I believe there are better ways to deal with this unfortunate condition. By the way, for example, some municipalities and cities go the way that they either postpone the rent to their tenants in their premises for longer periods of time and to certain instalments, or even at the worst time that is at present, they forgive it completely. I think that's a certain possibility of self-government. On the contrary, the State could help with the payment and not wait for it to carry the burden on the owners of the premises themselves. After all, we will still try to convince you in this matter that it makes sense to deal with this and that we are not giving up on this proposal. I want to update, we are thinking about how to make this change again so that you can really help where it is needed and not really burden the rest of the sector, which will pay for it subsequently, and we will also have to deal with it here once again with other measures. And I don't think any of us want to let that happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u23	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Mr. President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I come up with a proposal which I believe is the right solution for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to face economic problems. My amendment concerns VAT, respectively, that entrepreneurs pay VAT only on the invoices paid. Because I believe that those who do business and have a duty to pay VAT, so instead of investing and reinvesting in their businesses or buying material, they are forced to pay this VAT to the State and from money they have not yet seen. I think this is a very simple and effective aid where we help these entrepreneurs with a relatively simple instrument. It is an instrument that, even during the month of March or at the end of March, the Chamber of Commerce also referred to as one of the effective tools to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I turned him into an amendment. The amendment states that small and medium-sized companies with a turnover of up to 10 million per month will pay VAT only on invoices paid to them. I am aware that this is an extraordinary instrument, and yet I am convinced that it is right, because we can talk about the fact that we can forgive companies rent and other things, although I believe that VAT constitutes a large part of their funds, which in the current situation is important for them to have at their disposal and to pay them when invoices are paid. As has been said here, it would be believed in the good will of the state, but today's information concerning an entrepreneur from Ostrava, a restaurant who asked for a VAT deferral, was only 16,000, he asked for a three-month delay, and although he had paid due taxes and all his obligations to the state, instead of understanding, he had been able to build an apartment for him. Personally, I am very sorry about this procedure, although it is then said that there is some correction, but until it is given by law, it is not possible to exclude these excesses. When I consulted with the Minister of Finance, she said that there were some problems towards the European Union. I had the lawyers and the information I have checked it out is that it is solvable from the Czech state, because when a certain cut is taken to which this VAT option applies, the state has that option. And I think this is more about the will of the government coalition to meet small and medium-sized enterprises. Nothing else. Let's limit it over time, limit it to two years, but let's allow entrepreneurs to breathe. I think this is one of the major reliefs that we can make for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are the foundation of the economy. Anyone who's in business, who's experienced with it, knows what I'm talking about. And so I refer you to healthy common sense and real help to entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, which they currently need very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u25	Thank you. That was the last application I was registering at the moment. However, Mr Bendl is reporting. The Minister wants priority rights, I presume. [[Minister Havlíček prefers Mr Bendl.]] Mr. First. Well, I'm glad the gentlemen agreed. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u26	Thank you. At least the Minister will have the opportunity and opportunity to respond directly. I think we're witnessing this kid's play for pecha-- there's a bag going around, don't look at it, it's gonna blow. And it's always been said who's actually left with the bag. The government here says that the bed will not be left to the tenant, says that the bag will remain to the landlord. I think, in the end, both of them can pay for it. I am convinced that the state is to take this burden on itself and help both, because it will spin a circle from which no one will be well. I would ask the Minister who, therefore, will control justice and the legitimacy of the tenant's decision that he really is unable to fulfil his obligations under the contract, because there may be a number of those who are honestly touched by the government's decision so that they are forbidden from doing business, but there may be those who are only allowed to do so, but they will say: it also applies to us, we will not be paying rent now. Who's gonna judge? If tenants have to turn to landlords, turn to court, or if any other administrative authority decides? I wonder what's going on with the justice in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u27	Thank you. Now, then, in the debate, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the suggestions that have been made. One thing I admit is that the law isn't common. It's not. She's not even the usual age, it's a time that we've never experienced here, and the essence that revolves around the whole discussion, whether we call it a bag or a domino effect, or whatever else, is simple. We need to see that from a perspective, and that's the role of the government. By 30. 6., plus minus, if nothing extraordinary occurs, will be missing in cash in the Czech Republic 600 to 700 billion. Crowns. If we go in the way that some suggest, that is, let's compensate the tenants so that the government does it, so we simply say that if we go step by step like this, the deficit is not 200, it won't be 300, maybe it will be 400, and I note that we are at the beginning. [[17.20 hours]] Fortunately, we have managed everything in the health category, we will see how it develops, but we are at the beginning of economic problems. This means that the role of the state is the only and essential - to spread between all the actors of the economy the commitment that we have here, and everyone has to take it in part, starting with the state, there is no discussion about it. That's why the cursarbeit, that's why the businessmen. And we can talk about what's done better, what's done worse, and we can talk about what's added. That's perfectly okay, and that's a very relevant discussion, but the state can't take it all, it simply won't have it. In other words, the State needs to do, by certain fiscal measures, by taking on the basic weight, which, among other things, makes it a budget deficit, ad 1, and ad 2, to try to spread a burden on certain instruments among all actors. Simply put, so that everyone can walk away from that table maybe a little angry, but not by completely killing someone, and someone stays in it as a winner. Yes, it's not always fair, I agree with that, it's not easy either. That's why we involve banks in this, and we're just trying to do the delay. Among other things, I'm responding to the fact that there can't be a situation where the landlord wouldn't have a mortgage because we only did it and only if it went in parallel with the law that postpones the payments to the banks. At the same time, we are also partially transferring this to those business entities, which, of course, will cost something, and to other actors, especially essential service suppliers, e.g. The landlord. It fell quite correctly here: let's solve their fixed costs. What's the main fixed load for the tenant? It's two main fixed costs. The first is wages and we solve them, the state solves them by getting all these employees, virtually. companies that have employees there, 80 per cent of the super gross wage, including health and social. The key load is solved partially, but largely through the state. The other fixed cargo is clear, and it's rent. That means, at this point, we're trying not to take someone's money, but it's not like it's gonna happen that someone's gonna lose something, who's the poor guy. This is about the fact that only at that time of protection, which we estimated exactly the same as in Germany, we de facto copied the German law, which is essentially identical, until 30. Six says he can't get fired. The question, who did and who didn't, is simple. The one who was locked up, that is. the one who can't operate. No one else can ask for it. If they agree otherwise, it's quite all right, it's no big deal. But the protection isn't that we're making somebody poor and rich at the time. It's only in that, for an absolutely necessary time, which I think is fair until 30. Six, he can't get fired. Again, it's exactly the same as in Germany. A number of the comments that were there were factual, correct, and we will certainly take them into account. Services, yes, we'll reflect that there's no service involved. The VAT goes around and around. Yes, there may be an opinion, let's discuss how it's going to be with VAT, but before we quickly address lex VAT for tenants at the moment to solve the problem of whether VAT on paid or unpaid invoices, so it's a much more elegant and quicker solution to make it so that those who get into the problem apply and are satisfied with this, it's faster, there's no legal way. And sometimes in the future, other systems can be dealt with. But let's not make a system out of something that's done in a non-systemic environment, that wouldn't make sense. As for the income tax, it wasn't exactly right here. The income tax won't be now, the income tax will be as far as 30. 6. 2021 for 2020 which should be resolved by then. That means, at the moment, there is no danger that no one would have a tax on the income from an unpaid claim. [[The secretary of finance outside the microphone complements it.]] Of course, these are backups, etc. So it's just value added tax and income tax. Otherwise, I consider it a reasonable proposal that has fallen here and has been from Mrs Válková. In general, all the amendments that were on its part will be accepted by us, including the compromise proposal here, and that is that the withdrawal period will be until 30. 6. 2021. So we're not bringing any consequences to anyone, the state is just trying to protect a group of tens of thousands of subjects who have a serious problem for a few weeks, helping them by paying the employees, but at the same time sharing with the landlord only for a few weeks that they'll be delayed and then, of course, everything will be paid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u29	Thank you, and now Mr Jurečka has joined the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u30	Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for your reaction to the Minister here, but I have to go back a few hours in our debate in the House. Before 13 o'clock, Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, presented a specific example of an entrepreneur from Ostrava, who asked for a sum of CZK 16,000 to wait for him to pay VAT because of the cessation or interruption of his hospitality activities. The tax office didn't have time to discuss his application, but he had time to decide on the attachment of his assets. The Minister has left now, but I would very much like it to be said out loud here that there will be some clear extradition in this extraordinary situation, possibly a methodological instruction on how financial authorities and their workers in this exceptional time should proceed towards entrepreneurs who are asking to wait with VAT. Because what's being described here today, I think, isn't going to be an isolated problem, and it would be good for you to respond as a government. Because you're the one who described how it should be. And just today it turned out how unfortunately it doesn't work. And I would generally appreciate that other supervisory authorities in this special time - I do not say that they close their eyes to everything, but that they have an understanding of when entrepreneurs fail to fulfil all their legal obligations, if the government fails to respond by delaying certain deadlines, so that there is at least an internal instruction in this emergency that would create some scope for understanding what extraordinary situation we are in. I would like you, Minister or Minister, to respond to this again through Mr President, because I do not think that what has appeared in the media today is something that we should cross over, what is normal. I don't think it's normal, I think it's a big mistake in the financial office's progress, which is how the businessman approached it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u31	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. President Bartošek with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u32	Thank you. A brief response to the Minister. Well, Minister, of course we are discussing, but above all, let us help. I understand you're saying that anyone who asks for a VAT deferral will be granted, so I've easily concluded that you're already speaking for the Third Ministry. Of course, I would welcome this kindness of the state, but today's example shows that practice is completely different. I want to say here that as far as VAT is concerned, this is only a delay in payment, not release, remission or anything else. And I also want to say that ultimately, in practice, it will mean that the state essentially borrows interest-free from entrepreneurs, and that says, take where it takes, because I want VAT from you, and I don't really care where you take it, even if you don't have a paid part of the invoices. That's the reality. You asked where to take it. Well, of course there's a possibility. If you lead much more to the bank's social responsibility, then, of course, we could talk about the fact that the bank's social responsibility would help us greatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Vice Prime Minister Schillerová signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm sorry I haven't been here for a while. We have issued the liberating package I and II - Mr President Jurečka, I am now responding to you - where, on the basis of the mandate of the government that I have been given, I have forgiven all the administrative fees associated with any requests, and I have pardoned a whole series of fines. For example, today, the Financial Administration cannot waive the penalty for late filing of tax returns, so I forgave it, I took advantage of the law which gives me § 260 of the tax code and which has been activated since the flood for the second time. We have introduced, I have excused the advances on income tax, and the Financial Administration has put a new point coronavirus in its order D44, which is an order that governs the uniform rules for the waiver of tax accessories which must be accepted for public support, the examination of public support, and the waiver of accessories in 100 percent, unless, of course, it is some chronic debtor before the pandemic. This means that I have information from the Financial Administration, and I also asked for statistics, that essentially if the entity asks specifically for VAT due to the pandemic, it is done in 100 percent. I'm very sorry about the case that happened in Ostrava. I've dealt with this while I've been sitting here, so Mrs. Director and I have been texting. She issued a statement to the Czech News Agency some two hours ago, where she apologized for the Financial Office in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Now she's ordered a check on where the failure occurred because everyone's been informed. As she informed me, she regularly has video conferencing with them several times a week, with those directors, all have instructions on how to apply the liberating package in practice, and she has expressed in the media that it must not just happen again. Immediately when it happened, and it's inexcusable, I say it, it's inexcusable, I say it openly, and I want an expression of how it could have happened when we have a liberating package here and clearly set rules, so I'll wait for that statement, and immediately the staff of the Financial Authority for the Moravian-Silesian Region teamed up with that person, the pledge was canceled, it was settled. It can't happen again. But with the liberating package, which was one of the first things the government gave me to give me the mandate to make these decisions, so the rules that work like that were set up. [[k]] And I would follow up on Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček - that basically VAT is neutral, isn't it? The landlord pays, the tenant claims a deduction. The tax is neutral, so you have nothing to gain there. Very often there were cases in practice, which I get from the Financial Administration, that even counts on the rent. And from those invoices, that's a theme that goes back 25 years on the table, to pay VAT only on paid invoices. I can't. It would only go with invoices, I guess, up to 10,000, I don't want to be wrong, and it's basically complicated, it doesn't solve any problems, it's contrary to the directive of the European Union. I've got the subject on my desk, I say, and I've been seeing it for 25 years, that it's still being suggested, someone's putting it back into play. So whoever asks will be granted it will be pardoned by any tax accessory because they have a new point of coronavirus. If he just filed applications, he wouldn't pay the administrative fee, which I totally forgave. When he handed me the confession late, I totally forgave the fines. And the case, really, I'm saying, I'm sorry, the CEO apologized, it can't happen again, and it's being investigated how it could have happened, so it doesn't just happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u35	Thank you. President Jurečka with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u36	Thank you. I'd like to appreciate it. I would like to thank you for the prompt handling of this case, but here I am also making such an official appeal, a big request to the government, to you, Madam Secretary, to you, Minister, to consider the amendment now in April - and it is also possible to do so legally - so that payment of VAT to the state by entrepreneurs now in April can be postponed until the maturity of January next year, because it would be one of the fastest, most effective cash support for entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic - small, medium, large traders. I just think that in view of the problems that we see that it is not quite possible to manage applications under COVID I, COVID II, given that the expectations of these entrepreneurs were exhausted very quickly, in the order of hours, although I appreciate the effort that is here, so I think that this help to leave the VAT payment to the state to the entrepreneurs would be really very, very fast, to postpone it to them actually about that three quarters of a year and leave the cash resources in those companies. I'd really like to put in a good word for it. I know that this is also called for by representatives of NGOs such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport. Please, consider this from a political point of view, I believe that there would be political support for this measure across the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u37	Thank you. I see no one else entered into the general debate. At this point, I am ending the general debate. I will ask the Minister, the rapporteur, for any final words. Not interested. I am opening up a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Kořanová has applied for the floor. I was careful of the short and. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, you're very kind. So I would like to sign up for an amendment relating to Section 3 (1) and it is basically an exclusion of the part of the sentence "or services associated with the use of space for business" and is recorded in the system as House Document No 4733. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u39	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Šafránková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u40	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is in the system uploaded under House document number 4714, and I beg you to support it, because this amendment is at least a little fairer towards landlords. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u41	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u42	I would like to sign up for an amendment to my colleague Farský and my colleague. These are two amendments, which - i.e. the first one - I submit with him and is kept under House document 4727 and the other one I submit myself and is kept under House document 4849. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u43	Thank you. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I will finish the idea from the general debate, and one of the amendments follows this. Unfortunately, many people here have come to create false expectations that it is merely a delay in time without penalty, however, in the view of many lawyers and in the view of the Ministry, such deferred rents will also be subject to interest on late payments, contractual penalties and the like, so for the tenant it is rather a ball-packing that will increase and increase. That is why we propose that a much better solution would be direct aid to tenants, such as the creation of a new SME support programme under the Small and Medium Business Support Act, and this amendment can be found under number 4744. We also propose in two versions of the state guarantee, in one variant of 100 per cent for impregnable claims, 4743, or in the other variant 80 per cent for debts, 4842, due to the fact that, especially in the business, there may be some movements during that withdrawal period, there may also be a controlled termination of the tenant's activity or insolvency, bankruptcy, and then of course there would be a accumulated impregnable claim on the landlord, so that is why we propose state guarantees. Furthermore - and we agree with some of our colleagues here - we propose the removal of services from the bill and the amendment is under the heading 4843. Another proposal is a comparison of the length of the withdrawal period with the government's proposal for flats, that is, until 31. 5. 2021, that's precisely so that the accessory to the debts is not loaded for a long time. You'll find that under 4841. Furthermore, this is more of a technical amendment, we propose to compare the nomenclature with other legislation, that is, the claims to exchange for the word debts. That's a proposal under the heading 4844. We also propose, like many colleagues, that the unpaid claims should not be subject to tax obligations, here I was talking about VAT, 4845. And the last amendment, under the designation 4846, is a clarification of the tenant's obligation to prove that he is in real need as a result of an epidemic, such as some documents, is sufficiently widely defined, and a clear demonstration of the fact that the tenant actually falls under the protection regime, and it is prevention, let's say, against some abuse or chronic non-payments of this institute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u45	Thank you, Mr Member, for respecting the time and the last one entered in the detailed debate is Mrs Helena Válková, who I give this floor to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I already told you. It is Amendment 4875. It's a total of five changes. The first change is a shorter withdrawal period than 31. 3. 2020 to 30. 6. 2021, i.e. from less than two years to more or less a year. Secondly, it is a limitation of the substantive scope in relation to the lease in the protective period to situations where the rent is not paid, not where the services associated with the use of the rental space used for the rent are not paid. Third, there is the vague term "primarily. " Fourthly, the term "searches" is replaced by "rent debts." Fifthly, it shortens the last provision of Section 4 so that it is absolutely clear that in the context of interpretation it is indeed a situation where it is not fair to require the entrepreneur to bear those restrictions within that specified scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u47	Thank you. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u48	Thank you for the floor. I hereby refer to the amendment, which is listed in the system under number 4810 and helps small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in a significant way. I will briefly justify this proposal. The substance of the proposal submitted is to enable the calculated total tax on the output of the taxpayer to be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of VAT on transactions for which it has not yet received remuneration. The proposed proposal does not in any way alter the obligation to grant the tax or the VAT amount itself, but changes the time when it will be paid to the State by the taxpayer. In the words of legal theory, there is no change in the moment at which the tax relationship between the taxpayer and the State whose content is the tax return arises. The tax payer continues to have an obligation to declare it and to state it in the tax return as well as to issue a tax document, to register it under the appropriate law. However, it will reduce the calculated total output tax, i.e. after carrying out the sum of all the taxable transactions carried out and transactions for which it has an obligation to grant and pay the tax. At the same time, it has the right to correct an amount equal to the tax on outstanding transactions. So much and a little bit of legal language to justify. It's very simple: If you don't get an invoice, you don't pay VAT on it. If they pay you the invoice, you pay the state's VAT. It's aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-008-009.u49	Thank you. I do not see anyone else enrolled in the detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. I'll ask for any final words. Not interested. I conclude the second reading of this proposal and, according to the agreement, we will proceed to the third reading of this proposal after the completion of the block of materials discussed by Minister Havlíček. Before discussing the point
