ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u1	94. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 961/ - first reading I will ask Mrs Lenka Dražilová, who is proposed as rapporteur for first reading, but, given that the organisational committee has appointed a Member Jana Pastuchová, we will be nominated as rapporteur for this press, Lenka Dražilová, to vote in the vote number 172, which I have launched and I ask who agrees that the rapporteur for first reading should be Mrs Lenka Dražilová from the Committee on Social Policy, which is proposed as a guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 172. Out of 92 present for 80, against no one. Ms. Lenka Dražilová has been approved as rapporteur for first reading. And now I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to take up her opening words. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking a lot lately about how our society is getting older, and yet one of the recipes for facing this 21st century challenge is an increase in birth rate. At the same time, every family policy expert knows, and it is demonstrated by numerous international studies, that the best way to help young families with children have more children or have children at all is to provide preschool care especially for children under the age of three. There are a lot of motivational things, but it is really proven that if parents have the opportunity to choose whether they want to care for a long time or, on the contrary, soon to reconcile work and family, it has the greatest and highest positive impact on birth rates. It's been showing up for a really long time. That is why I am very pleased that we have come to the first reading of the proposal or amendment of the Children's Group Act, the new nursery, and I must say that the wording that we are going to discuss today is a genuinely worked-out and very complicated compromise at the level of our coalition government. The purpose of the law is that we have systemic, quality, but also affordable care for the smallest children, not only for those of richer families, but indeed for all families who want to reconcile work and family. I think that this has succeeded, and the main reason for this amendment is the introduction of stable, predictable state funding, because, as you all know, funding from European sources is about to end, from European funds, and we have committed ourselves to finding funding from the state budget after the end of this programming period. [[11.50 hours]] However, this does not mean that we are resigning from European sources. On the contrary, the whole range of innovations that we are introducing into this law is intended to provide for us, and I am already negotiating this with my European counterpart, Commissioner Schmit, so that funding from European sources can continue to be possible, but on a different basis. This means, not on the basis of a challenge and then individual projects report, it is a very complicated, administratively demanding process. But we would like, in essence, if this amendment to the law is adopted, all the nursery, all the facilities that meet the conditions to receive a regular grant, and we would then forward it to each other within the various budget chapters. It wouldn't be the system that everybody competes in the order of seconds for subsidies, but it would be a stable system. And it's on the right track as I spoke to Commissioner Schmit. But we'll see. Until everything is arranged, nothing is arranged. This is indeed at European level. So the purpose of this amendment of the law is to have a stable system and to maintain maximum children's groups so that they don't have to end so that they don't have to die, and at the same time to make this care available to parents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u3	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. More? I understand you, Madam Secretary, but I've been trying to make peace here. I hope they'll listen to you now. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u4	Thank you. So now you need to set up a system that will be suitable for all families. And the important thing is, because many of you are irritating that we are not going back to the old system, but we are actually taking a concept that is understandable for most of the population and which is commonly used in Western Europe. I guess I don't have to mention that Krippe, creche or Nurser are concepts, i.e. A nursery that works throughout Western Europe, and everyone knows immediately what it is. A few years ago, it was a major problem for the parents of little children to find a place in kindergarten. The situation is evolving as time goes on. Strong years have grown, and now we really need to build a network for children under the age of three. It also shows up, I can give you exact numbers that most children in children's groups are under three years old. That's what we're missing. But it is still important, and I will not stop pointing out that we need freedom of choice. This means whether parents or families choose whether they want to reconcile or care. And I think our current system, the only thing he lacks, is the support of those who have smaller children and want to work and have a family. Shared jobs will start to work from 1 January in the framework of the amendment to the Labour Code, i.e. support for part-time work. And the nursery is supposed to be the last piece in the whole puzzle. So what's turning into a proposal or the novel we're implementing? We introduce the possibility of nursery for children from six months to three years, respectively. not exactly within three years, because not all children are born so that they can have their first day after their third birthday on September 1st, but we introduce it to August after their third birthday. Here is the link to the school law and the guarantee of places in kindergartens for three-year-olds. In the nursery there will be one caring person for six children, in the largest nursery of up to eight children per caring person, but except that if there is one child in the group under one year of age, the capacity will be limited to only four children per caring person. What will also change, and we find it very important in those few years of experience with the functioning of children's groups, so we introduce quality standards that will be controlled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and mandatory further training of carers, it is in the order of eight hours a year, and every two years we also want to refresh the first aid course for young children. Caregivers will have to have a medical minimum that reflects the needs of the smallest children. A new professional nanny qualification for children in the nursery will therefore be established, which will focus on the development and health of the child within three years. I think, as we have consulted individual members of the Social Committee over the last few months, that there is even the largest room for discussion in this qualification. And I think the coronation crisis has shown us that we need paramedics especially in medical facilities, and I'm willing here, if it's backed up across our coalition, to go for some minor adjustments, so that the law really suits everyone. For the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we have passed on a proposal for a qualification and evaluation standard and the Ministry of Education is now creating a new professional qualification to be completed by the end of February at the latest. We're also preparing the possibilities to pay for this retraining in this whole system. Last but not least, you will find or also review the penalty mechanism so that children and parents have very high confidence in protecting their children in that facility. We come from several years of experience in the operation and operation of children's groups. In recent years, we have experienced many, dozens of different situations that have really surprised us. And I personally believe that the penalty mechanism is really very much needed, at this point in time, we do not really have one. We are particularly concerned with well-established service contracts, compliance with them, and compliance with quality standards. As far as the time frame is concerned, the amendment is expected to be effective from 1 July next year. Yes, it's very close, which is why I'd like you to support the proposal to shorten the deadlines. And new funding for nursery/child groups is to be provided from 1 January 2022. All the facilities that have been created since the summer of next year will have to follow new rules. The existing children's groups will have a three-year transition period, i.e. by the end of August 2024. This, in our view, represents sufficient time to adapt to new conditions, be it the age of children, the name of the device, i.e. A nursery, and the qualifications of carers. At the same time, for this period, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will provide all the founders, whether children's groups or nursery, with all the support. Members of the Social Committee know that we have had a functional European project for the implementation of children's groups in the regions for several years. We have very proven, experienced coordinators, coordinators in each region, and they have passed, each of them, experience with setting up dozens of children's groups, and they will continue to do this because it really makes life easier for everyone, and then the children's groups grow like mushrooms after the rain, and I think we want it. Financially, if you're wondering how it's going to be financially. Today, children's groups are financed from European money, as I have already mentioned, with around CZK 9,800 per seat. It's different, it's 9100 to 9,900 crowns. But the most common interval is 9,800. And the total subsidy in today's system may fall according to fullness and illness, which we believe is the greatest weakness of the whole system. Because the kid group is then beaten to the point that the kid is sick, he's got less money. While we understand that it is impossible to predict when the child will be sick, it will often be especially in the winter months, income outages, but at the same time it is a mechanism that leads to demand for older children. Because the older the child, the less sick, logically. So we want to change that. Newly, the providers will receive a monthly standard for the baby. Each year, the government will determine the level of normality by its regulation or resolution. Attention, these specific amounts are not part of the amendment and will depend on the form of the approval of this law, at the same time as the negotiations with the European Commission. And we expect to have a debate on this in the government in March, April next year, depending on how the legislative process of this amendment will develop. But the basic principle will no longer be a real attendance, as it is today, I mentioned its disadvantages, but a contract with parents. Because we can't punish our parents for being sick. The smaller the child, the sicker, I guess I don't have to say it again. [[12.00 hours]] We are also introducing a dietary allowance in the form of private kindergartens of 10 crowns per day per child. Overall, the system would cost about CZK 1.4 billion per year at the current capacity of 16 thousand children. I think that this is the best investment, because the parents of these children can then work, so they can not lose their qualifications, they can develop, they can pay taxes, they pay other funds to the state budget, and for the state this balance is very positive even for the lowest income, which means that it is an excellent investment not only in future generations, in increasing birth rates, but it is also a positive for the state budget. I think we all know this, and there's no need to go into further detail. I have already mentioned that I will seek to negotiate money from the European Union, but not in the form of those competitive projects as before, because this is a huge administrative burden for children's groups, respectively. A nursery. Rather, we imagine that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be the beneficiary of the package of money and will redistribute the funds as stipulated by the law, i.e. to all who fulfil the conditions, we will ensure the certainty, stability and predictability of the financing. In negotiating the new cohesion policy programming period, we have outlined this gradual transition and at least a partial use of European funding for the existing children's groups and crèches. This amendment, I think, is a sufficient guarantee for all the founders to spend European money effectively and the gradual transition to national funding, so the European Commission also liked it and we will see how the situation develops. I will do my best to finance this because it will relieve the state budget. One more thing that I have mentioned and which, I think, is key to families with young children, and that is the financial availability of nursery. The most frequent fees for the children's group are about CZK 3,200 at the moment, in Prague it is approximately CZK 5,800. It is very expensive and it is the most common complaint of families against children's groups, because imagine that you have two children and you pay 5 800 crowns each. That's just the expansive amount, and it's without food. So lunches come to that. Despite the funding from European sources, child groups are often charged up to CZK 15,000. No food. That's just the sum of money. And as I'm saying, that's the most common complaint against children's groups. Therefore, the financial availability must be for all families, not just for some of the chosen ones. The main parameter of the amendment - and we built the whole law in this way - quality, system, accessibility not only local but also financial. So we now want to put in place a ceiling on parental contributions so that the service is actually available. And that amount will be decided annually by the government along with the level of normality. I think that's how I described and outlined all the parameters of the law at the outset. We have met with the majority of the Social Committee on a number of occasions on this bill. I think we have explained a lot, and therefore, honourable Members, I am asking you to support this amendment at first reading and I look forward to a possible debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u5	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and her tolerance for a certain level of noise at a certain point. And we will continue with the presentation of the rapporteur. I will now ask Mrs Lenka Dražilová to present her intelligence report. And before I give her my word, I would ask my fellow Members to remain calm, especially in front of the rapporteur's table and our place for the floor of the Member. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will really limit myself to a brief summary, given that we have a point on 12.40 and I see that there are some debaters who are logged in. Madam Secretary introduced the novel in very detail, so for me only: The basic objectives of the draft law, namely to lay down the conditions of care in a small group in the care of the youngest age group of children, i.e. for children from six months of age in a group of up to four children. Further adjust the functioning of children's groups in order to flexibilize their operation, improve the quality of the services provided and eliminate the problems that arise in the children's group thanks to the current regulation of the service. Further from 1. 7. 2021 anchor the change of the name of the children's groups to the nursery, as mentioned above, and introduce stable funding of the nursery from the state budget in order to increase the availability of childcare services. The financial support for crèches from national sources shall be designed as a mandatory expenditure from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the form of a contribution to the operation of all registered services for a given calendar year, which shall be applied for. The Minister has already spoken about the financial implications. So just to conclude. The purpose of the proposal is therefore to ensure sufficient capacity for places for the smallest children in pre-school care facilities, to ensure the financial availability of pre-school care facilities, to increase the quality of services provided and, of course, to promote family and working life reconciliation. I think there will be a lot of discussions around the amendment, but I am asking you to release it for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her news report and we can open a debate in which colleague Jan Čižinský is the first to sign up, Olga Richterová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been taking notes here about what was said. It was said here that the objective was systemic, quality and affordable care, that the aim was security, stability and predictability, sufficient capacity. I think we all agree with that. The problem is, unfortunately, what is being presented here is partly going in the opposite direction. And I'm gonna try to prove it here now. The amendment to the law is needed because the funding from European funds ends in the coming months and years. That is also why it makes no sense to propose rejection because we would not get anything by doing so, on the contrary, we would lose children's groups. So their future needs to be resolved. But the way the proposed amendment wants to resolve it is unhappy and unacceptable. The problem isn't whether they're going to be called a children's group device or a nursery. The problem is the setting of parameters and conditions and the fact that it is completely unsystemically canceled what has been very laboriously built and the result will be just insufficient capacity. The operators of children's groups converted into a nursery will be burdened by strict rules and controls according to the proposal. They'll have to have, for example. cloakrooms, precise number of toilets of size, separate sleeping rooms or laundry room. These are the costs - and this is very important - and perhaps it would be good if the Minister listened... [[The Minister is having an interview with the rapporteur.]] These are the reasons why parents in small municipalities will have to build a nursery in small towns, but also unfortunately in large cities that are already built, and cannot be built there, you simply will not build a nursery in a block structure that meets hygiene requirements, or at such costs that in the current coronavirus or financial crisis it will simply not be possible, so these parents will have to forget the nursery. That means we have a novel here that says that children's groups or nurserys, or simply that parents of children in small villages and large finished cities or urban areas will not have access to child care. So far, children's groups have been largely free - and now I'm mainly talking about spatial requirements. Larger children's groups, if they meet the new requirements already today, will again have problems fulfilling the capacity built up, because according to the amendment, they will only be able to care for children under three or four years of age, but they are interested in many regions, and I am actually speaking from experience, primarily in the age group three to five years. [[12.10 hours]] The next question is personnel security for day care. Staff according to the draft will have to be qualified by a health care professional, a doctor, a babysitter for children until the start of compulsory schooling or a newly established nanny qualification for a nursery. For this qualification, as far as I know, there is no accreditation at the moment, yet new providers of nursery have the conditions of professional competence to start meeting since the beginning of 2022. As far as paramedics are concerned, there's already a shortage. On the other hand, educators can also work in children's groups. These are often former teachers, retired or pre-retirement teachers. I don't know that it's gonna cause any problems in practice. I don't understand why they should now be disqualified. The groups were also not burdened by the excessive bureaucracy that the amendment now brings. As a result, the staff could have had more time to take care of their children. And then there's the question of funding. In assessing the impact on the state budget, the Ministry expects a contribution of up to CZK 7,500 per month and a ceiling of one third of the minimum wage from parents. To date, this would mean that children's groups can obtain a maximum of CZK 12 367 per month per child from both sources, which, unfortunately, is not enough for a large part to cover costs. I would also like to mention children's groups versus kindergartens. I would like to stop at the idea that children older than three years of age belong to kindergartens, not children's groups or nursery groups. This thesis clearly shows that children over three years of age are excluded from care in the nursery. A few numbers first. In the academic year 2018/2019 at least 12 800 children throughout our country were not accepted for pre-school education. 73 percent of economically inactive women between 25 and 49 years of age report as a reason for their economic inactivity to care for a child or a disabled adult. This is well above the European Union average, which is 37 percent. I took this information from the final summary of the RIA report, which is part of the amendment. In this situation, it is no wonder that children's groups have found a place especially where places in kindergartens are missing. It was mentioned here that children's groups grew like mushrooms after rain. I'm not quite sure whether it was mentioned here positively or negatively, but for me and for the parents of the children it was good that the children's groups grew like mushrooms after the rain. Operators and parents view them as an alternative and an opportunity for individual access to children. They also enable parents to return earlier after maternity or parental leave to the labour market and support their partial and flexible jobs. And here we have some catching up to do. In children's groups, there are fewer children than in kindergartens. The median value of the capacity of the children's group in the Czech Republic is 13 children. They are therefore even more suitable for children with special needs. There are 24 to 28 children in kindergartens. For some health problems in particular, the placement of a child in a kindergarten is sometimes excluded. The priority of children's groups compared to other pre-school children's facilities is quite fittingly summarized by the text I would like to quote: "Child groups represent a flexible service that provides care and education to children in smaller groups with an emphasis on individual approach. The flexibility of the service lies mainly in the fact that children's groups adapt their opening hours to the needs of parents. Children's groups are also age heterogeneous, so in one group they can be siblings of different ages. An undoubted advantage is already mentioned individualized care, a lower number of children per caring person, while respecting the requirements and wishes of parents to raise a child." This text is not from any lobbyists, it is written in the report on this material, in the RIA report. At the beginning of October, I addressed all children's groups in the Czech Republic by e-mail asking for an opinion on the upcoming amendment. I got answers from 150 operators, some representing more children's groups. Only one child group replied that they were satisfied. 149 children's groups, and as I say, some represent more children's groups, the intention to transform into a nursery has been rejected, they do not agree with it. Most of them state that in the case of an amendment, the operation will be terminated. How do we want to improve availability if we force what was built here for billions of crowns, if we force them to quit and build a new system? If the proposed change is liquidation for part of the children's groups, and this will certainly happen, it is simply impossible to build the dressing rooms in small towns and larger cities, because there is simply no place. So the question is, to what extent this will happen, and the jobs of those who are employed in children's groups today will be threatened, even those who will not be able to place their children there. Or the way it turns out, the solution will offer the parents a gray economy. However, bringing child care into the grey economy is precisely what the amendment says it follows to make sure that this is not the case. Therefore, if the bill of ambition is to respond to current needs in the area of promoting reconciliation of working and family life by ensuring locally and affordable quality services for pre-school children, I quote from the explanatory report, I am sure that without the adoption of fundamental amendments, this is going to the very opposite. The question I want to ask in conclusion is simple. Why do we want to interrupt something that works? The current concept, which has invested a lot of work and a lot of money from European and national sources, has proven itself. It is used by parents of more than 15,000 children, who have no choice in many places because of the lack of capacity of other facilities. For a lot of money, we've built something that's functional here. Everyone's happy with it, there's a lot of demand. Why tear it down now and start building something else? Every good manager knows what works doesn't work. As I said at the beginning, a change in the law is necessary to change funding, but I do not understand why not maintain children's groups in their current form, to find a model of functioning and financing that will be bearable to their operators, to parents and to public budgets, and to build a new system of nursery and other children's groups, but without the current system being torn down. Let's recap. This amendment, if adopted as proposed, will be a disaster for people who live in small towns and large cities in already finished neighborhoods. This will mean a great deal of financial complications for many women and families, because suddenly those children will not be able to take advantage of the very care in those children's groups. Unfortunately, the aim of this amendment, as proposed, is not to provide care for children, but to save money. And that really is something completely unacceptable at the moment. That means we need to redo the novel. It needs to be redesigned so that what has been built here can continue, and, of course, we can build a new system next to it. No one's gonna stop that. But, as suggested, this will not really lead to the objective that has been declared, that is to ensure systemic, quality and affordable care. The care just won't be, and if it doesn't, it won't be good, it won't be affordable. And I'm sorry, but this amendment, if it was intended to ensure certainty, stability and predictability, is what this amendment says to everyone: you cannot rely on it when you build something, that it will be sustainable. This really is a very unfortunate message: if you rely on European money and then you need to finance it from the national budget, then you can throw what you build in the trash because we want it completely different and we don't care that it all goes away. Indeed, this is unacceptable. I do not understand why it is not possible to maintain and build a new system. And that is where the amendments should be headed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u9	Have a nice noon. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Aleš Juchelka is reporting and will be prepared with the priority right of Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u10	Hello, honourable Members. I will only respond to my honored colleague through you, Mr Čižinský. Basically, you're right. However, we are in the middle of some negotiations at the moment, where we will actually change this amendment at second reading, because of course some Members do not like it either. These negotiations have already taken place in some way after this amendment has been introduced to us by Members. So, of course, it will be a qualification, of course, of the age limit, the number of children, the funding and the ceiling, whether or not it is. All of this is planned in some way, and we will continue with the Committee on Social Policy. That is what I wanted to say to Mr Čižinský, who did not listen to me at the moment, and to calm him a little bit, that there are certainly some amendments in the plan that are in favour of keeping the children's groups in the status quo as supported by the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Maláčová gets the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u12	I'm in response to Čižinský's MPs. You've read it beautifully, unfortunately... I'll take you to a children's group or a nursery because I have to say that there's a new dressing room... For God's sake! The dressing rooms are already there today's probation. Same with the bathroom standards and all that. There's a whole series of inaccuracies in your opening words. I suggest because all we have now is 25 minutes to take you aside and explain to you what's working and what's changing because most of your statements aren't based on the truth. Otherwise, the questionnaire inquiry you mentioned, I saw it. This was a pre-prepared template because the funny thing was that our ministerial children's groups also got the pre-prepared template to fill out, so I wouldn't be getting away from it. But I'd be happy to explain to you what's going on in this proposal. We reduce our age by six months, introduce stable funding, and give parents the opportunity to keep an eye on quality. Those are the basic changes. And no one wants to destroy the children's groups. Mr. Ambassador, unlike you, I was in the formation of children's groups in 2014 and 2015. It's my heart thing. And no one wants to eliminate children's groups, we just want to improve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u13	Mr Jan Čižinský will speak on the point of fact and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. So please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u14	Thank you. I just want to react. As mayor of the city section, I am a person who sets up children's groups, and I know that we will have to quit because, as proposed, those small children's groups will not be able to continue to operate. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u15	Mr Olga Richterová will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u16	Thank you for the floor. It aroused emotion. I'm going to try to calm this down a little bit, because the situation that the previous speaker, Mr. Čižinský, spoke of is very specific, I think. I think he was talking about being a micro-mistress... [[Mr Chižinský is discussing with the Minister at the rapporteur's table.]] Once again, I'll try very quickly. I think that my colleague Čižinský spoke especially of micro-chickens. As far as complications with small children's groups are concerned, I would also like the Minister to clarify with us. The preservation of diversity in children's groups is something that is at risk, but the overall functioning for us is not at risk. We need to discuss the amendment, we need to discuss the amendments, we have four specific pirát, and we need to take into account that there are three interests: parents, operators, or founders, and then the whole system, the state as a whole. And we need to balance this. So once again, I don't want to prolong the debate, because we have to let the law go now. We're pressed for time with other fixed points. I would also like to consider the responsibilities relating to education, because, for example, children's groups now could not set up qualified kindergarten teachers. That's an example of something we'd like to change for the pirát. I also give the name to consider. We would like to leave the children's groups as such, we do not consider it necessary to return to the nursery so-called. It's also important for larger cities not to have the contribution ceiling there, although I understand the motivation of the Minister, but I would talk about it again. Once it is firmly defined that it is a nonprofit organization, they cannot profit from it, simply cover costs and nothing else can, so just where there are higher rents, and children's groups are often rentals, so they need to take into account the rent height in those contributions. And with regard to the age limit of children, we want to see the possibility of individual continuation in those parents who want their child to continue in the children's group, so that even older children can begin compulsory schooling, not just under three years of age, including. But those are the things I believe we'll keep talking about. I would very much like to attend meetings at the Ministry on the conditions for those small children's groups. All in all, colleagues and colleagues, I ask that we let this go into the next reading. It is necessary to discuss this very quickly in order to provide the certainty to operators that they do not have at this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u17	He will now appear as the last Member, Petr Beitl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must apologise to my colleague, Honza Bauer, who was preparing to speak to the children's groups, but his work obligations did not allow him to stand before you, so I am doing this for him. As a conservative person, I resent the idea of six months' or annual babies in a collective establishment, whatever. But at the same time, I very much understand that there is demand for this type of care. But I wonder why, instead of further regulation, we would rather not look at how parents deal with babysitting such small children at present, and why the Ministry is not trying to respond to real life by legal regulation. I myself, unlike the Minister, was not in favour of voting on children's groups during the last parliamentary term. However, I respect the ODS, the political party that has always supported their creation and functioning, not only in words. It may have been settled in the course of years, but it was still the government of Petr Nečas, who proposed to anchor the children's groups, just failed to bring him to life. And it was the ODS, which supported this intention from opposition benches, when children's groups were in charge of social democracy and then Minister Marksová. In June 2014, the Minister defended children's groups with these words - I quote. "This proposed law actually introduces a new type of service, which consists in babysitting and caring for a child in a so-called child group. The aim is to extend the existing spectrum of childcare services to other options. It's no competition for kindergarten schools, it's an alternative." And that was one of the few things, if not the only thing we could agree on with Secretary Marksová. We supported children's groups not because of the lack of places in standard kindergartens, nor because it was possible to spend European money on children's groups. We supported them because we perceive children's groups next to the kindergartens associated with the fallout circuits as a sensible and accessible alternative for parents who 1. want to babysit for their children to vote according to their own preferences, 2. want to have children close to their work or directly at the workplace, 3. where appropriate, they seek another alternative, perhaps due to their children's specific needs. I want to remind you, by the way, that children's groups often support children's parents with various disabilities. Unfortunately, the current Minister Maláčová clearly sees children's groups differently. Children's groups are no alternative to kindergartens and consider it wrong to maintain a wheelset system for children over three years. The proposal prepared by its Ministry cuts, reduces and complicates their lives in the current form of children's groups. It can be said that this proposal destroys the children's group. And he does it in several ways. And since it has already been said here, so briefly: it reduces their financial support, and hence the ability to pay operating costs by placing payments into parents, even though they are non-profit-making in principle; it tightens the qualification requirements, so many children's groups are likely to lose staff; It limits the subsidy to smaller children, so older siblings will have to move to other facilities; it tightens up other rules of their operation. And as a cherry on a cake, it renames children's groups into a nursery. If a children's group does not use the name of the nursery, it should even be punished with a financial penalty. [[12.30 hours]] Parents don't need to be raised. They don't need the state to protect them with new regulations. They themselves know best where and why they take their children, and they can decide where their children spend their time while they work. Moreover, I do not really know that there is a problem in the current operation of children's groups. On the contrary, they naturally take up, develop flexibly where there is demand, and parents are satisfied with them. I see no reason why the state should stick its nose in things that work well under current legislation. If we were to approve the bill in its form, we would achieve one thing. We will drive parents who are using children's groups to private kindergartens today, where they will pay much higher amounts. And I'm sure he won't even improve his state. Because by this law, we will limit the possibilities of parents, making it difficult for many taxpayers to return to work. All of this is because Europe's finances have run out, and the government does not want to continue financing children's groups, so it is pretending that something new is being created here and favourable for parents. It's gonna be an old-fashioned nursery and it's gonna pull the thorn out of the tail of the parents of the smallest children. But it's a scam. Because we're gonna have a nursery, but we're not gonna have kids' groups tonight. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry about this approach. And I am even more sorry that it would be enough for the government to follow its own decisions. Already in 2017, resolution 654 - On the concept of family policy, which requires the implementation of micro-doubts and, at the same time, the end of funding from the European Social Fund, to ensure long-term financing of children's groups from national sources. Thus, the government did not place any assignment to transform children's groups into a nursery. It was just a clear assignment to set funding from national sources. However, in principle, only one paragraph deals with this in the proposal. Of course, we are aware of the enormous time frame that the government has put us in. Financing through the European Social Fund is over, and it is necessary to ensure a transition to funding from the state budget, and yesterday it was too late. On the other hand, the government has once again shown that if it wants, it can act quickly, not only in the case of the law of covid, but also in the case of ordinary legislation. For example, the last insolvency amendment she published on Friday, and it was already on Wednesday after the government meeting in the House. It is the responsibility of this government to resolve the further functioning of children's groups immediately. And if there are reasons why she doesn't want to do that, it's her responsibility to explain it to the families again. We don't want to be blackmailed. We refuse to change the concept of children's groups only to devices for the smallest children. The whole law is wrong, even with the best will incorrigible and completely redundant. It will lead to the demise of children's groups and damage parents and children who are reaching them. Therefore, let the government return to the proposal, cross it out and return it in a form that will address exclusively the financing and economic operation of children's groups. The ODS is then ready to raise its hand even in an accelerated legislative regime. In conclusion, then. We propose to return the proposal to the government for revision. At the same time, we call on the government to present a law as soon as possible in a form that will address exclusively the financing of children's groups, but will not change them into a regulated nursery only for the smallest children. If we are in the next government, I can promise that we will allocate the resources to run children's groups, because support for families and the single choice of parents to choose their own children will be our absolute priority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u19	I noted your proposal. We'll vote on it later. I have two applications here with priority rights. It's Mrs Kovářová for the club - or whatever, you're still in line. Then Mrs Pekarová. Let me just point out that we have a fixed point at 12.40, where I'm going to have to interrupt you. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u20	I wouldn't like that. Good morning, dear colleagues. I would just like to start by saying that I was here during the last parliamentary term and I was helping out of the opposition just with my colleagues to enforce the Children's Group Act. So I just want to start by saying that I am - and the club STAN - a supporter of children's groups. However, this does not prevent us from defining and criticizing some of the points in this law. To begin with, I would like to point out that we will release the law for second reading, either by agreeing with the Minister and other colleagues to prepare amendments, either those which will go across in agreement or some which we will try individually to enforce. I think there have been a number of reservations here, and it is clear that children's groups are doing their part. I then decided to support children's groups for two reasons. The first reason was that in regions around large cities there was absolutely no place in kindergartens and children's groups were a quick solution to ensure the capacity of kindergartens, also because it did not mean a large financial cost to the founders of kindergartens. The second reason was that they could not set up a nursery school in small municipalities, because they did not have enough children, and in recent years a number of children's groups have been created, which are in these very small municipalities. That is why I think that this is precisely one of the reasons that we should correct and allow to have a children's group up to the age of six in small municipalities, so that children do not have to leave and can stay in their community. Madam Secretary is pressuring me to go through the vote today. It points to me that three minutes. I think that all the reasons we wanted to name were expressed by both Mr Čižinský and Mrs Richterová. I will therefore comply with the Minister and end my speech, and I hope that at second reading we will agree on amendments that will address the most difficult problems and the most pressing problems of this law. Because the children's groups have a place with us. A number of people are working in children's groups and allow parents either to have a pre-school education capacity or an alternative. And I hope that the Minister will comply with some of the amendments, as I did today, and I am ending with this speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u21	Now Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be given room with priority rights. And once again, I'm sorry to say that at 12.40... unfortunately, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u22	Yes, hello, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm really going to limit myself to just two brief sentences. I care that children's parents have the opportunity to continue using the services of children's groups, but I think it is essential that we correct a number of things in this proposal at second reading. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we ensure funding, because this service is simply essential. That is why I support it so that we can really move this bill forward and get it fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u23	With priority rights Jan Chvojka, chairman of the club ČSSD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u24	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, coworkers and colleagues... actually for the afternoon. I would like to propose, on the basis of the discussions that have taken place, that we reduce the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-003-094.u25	Yes, I made a note. This vote will certainly not take place at this time, but for 30 days, Jan Chvojka. So now I have no one enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary, Madam rapporteur? There's no interest. So we still have space, now the question is whether we can make it. [[12.40 hours]] We have a vote here that he's coming back... Mr Petr Beitl proposes that we return the translated proposal to the applicant for completion. Well, I've already called all the MPs. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 173, 95 Members are registered here, for 8, against 29. The application for repayment of the application submitted to the applicant for completion was rejected. I hereby adjourn the discussion of this press. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Well, we have a fixed point at 12.40. What? [[Odds from the diaper.]] Come on... I don't know, we've got it by vote of the House listed at 12.40, so now I don't know how we can go on with the vote, because it was the House that voted at 12.40... [[The advice from the diaper.]] Yeah, so we'd have to vote again, which I guess... So let's just... I'm gonna interrupt, but we can get back to it by 13:00, of course. So I'll speed up my speech. Now we have here at 12.40 a fixed point
