ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 503/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of this bill is to address the burning problem of our education, namely the lack of teachers. If you look at all the data and investigations of the Czech School Inspectorate, as well as the extraordinary investigation that took place some time ago and was at the beginning of this law, we are dealing with a lack of teachers. The situation in some regions, and in those where we need it to be significantly better, is not good. As regards qualified teachers and their involvement, especially in the Karlovy Vary Region, the proportion of unqualified teachers is relatively high. This government proposal aims to achieve its goal by increasing the involvement of experts from practice in teaching. Although we can argue about this, I think that the chance to take someone out of practice and involve him in school can certainly not be, or should not be rejected across the board. And what this bill brings is support for early teachers. The need to amend the law on pedagogical workers stems from the extraordinary investigation I was talking about, and the Ministry of Education did so with a few facts to begin with, to repeat. Average teacher age in regional education, where more than 151,000 or more are already working. in those calculated volumes 172 thousand, it is relatively high and reaches 47.2 years. It is relatively lower in kindergarten teachers, where it exceeds 45 years. The highest teacher in higher vocational schools - there exceeds 50. Teachers who do not qualify for professional qualifications under the Education Worker Act shall hold more than 6.5 percent of the teachers' posts. For example, in the Karlovy Vary Region, this share, as I mentioned earlier, is almost double, similar in Central Bohemia. In Prague it is every 10th time. On the other hand, the regions, especially in Moravia, are, of course, where the proportion of teachers without professional qualifications is significantly lower. The investigation also examined the proportion of the lessons studied and, on the whole republic average, teaching is conducted in 82 percent of the cases, in the case of the Karlovy Vary Region in 72 percent. The investigation confirmed the merits of the proposal for a bill to enable, and now essential, the school director to recognise for a period of up to three years the presumption of professional qualifications of a teacher to graduates of any Master's degree programme for teaching general subjects at the second stage of primary schools and in secondary schools and experts from practice, if their practice in the field corresponds to the nature of the subject being taught. The amendment proposal will also contribute to reducing the administrative burden on school directors, narrowing down cases where directors still have to demonstrate that they are actively looking for qualified teachers. Totally flattered. At this point, the directors are handling it through an exception, and they have to prove that they're still looking for someone in that place. The situation is serious. Of course, each of us would like to be in that situation where, as in Finland, we would have all our teachers graduates full of Master's degree, but that's not the situation. This law, and I want to mention it here in the second reading, should also be adopted by teaching faculties. And I do not understand their partial resistance, because if they provide significantly better - and I believe they do because of the interventions that we have put there from European funds and national funds - significantly better education than you can get through so-called. supplementary pedagogical studies, so teaching faculties have nothing to worry about. If that's not the case, then, of course, it's a problem. But it is legitimate at the moment and in the state of Czech education to allow access and enable directors as school managers to take a person out of practice and to provide him with additional pedagogical studies and, if necessary, education, vocational education within three years, because the school director is the one responsible for the quality of teaching in school. This is an indisputable fact and I firmly believe that the resulting form of the law will then correspond to the factual state, not to some of our ideas or ideas of some faculties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The committee resolution is delivered as House prints 503/1 and 2. The Committee's rapporteur is Mr Lukáš Bartoň. Please, rapporteur, inform us of the committee's discussion of the proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u4	Thank you for the floor. The Education Committee discussed this House press and adopted three amendments to it. Neither of these proposals primarily concerns the amendment itself, but the Education Committee proposes to add the logopedo to the Education Act among special educators, further proposes to leave the teaching study as one of the possible ways to obtain pedagogical education, and the third proposal was about the effectiveness of the law, but the proposed on 1 September 2020 we failed a little bit. So much for the school committee. The whole resolution is under House press 503/2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Lukáš Bartoň, Mr Václav Klaus, is the first Member to be enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u6	Thank you. I would like to thank the Education Committee for the adoption of the amendment on teaching and, at the same time, I would like to make a few amendments. The first amendment relates to the salaries of teaching staff. It's a theme that we have here every year. Across all clubs, we have already agreed that we would like the salaries of pedagogical workers to be as close as possible to that magical number of 130 percent of the average wage, and the Ministry of Education itself, in the long-term intention of developing the school system, wants them to really approach that level of salaries of pedagogical workers by 2023. For this reason, and especially for that reason, in order to ensure that the teaching profession will be attractive in terms of pay, that it will be a stable position of the salary, that it will be predictable and that there will not be annual fluctuations, we have proposed the inclusion of this rule directly into the law on teaching workers, where, in the amendment under House document 4466, we propose that the salary of teachers and other teaching workers be paid to average wages and increase their salary to at least 130 per cent of the average wage - at least the word is important. The Ministry of Education will continue to issue a tariff table, but its minimum level must not go to that indicator, which is written in the law, and the entire volume, including the remuneration, is calculated at 130 percent of the average wage. [[18.10 hours]] This model, which we have proposed, also accelerates wage growth for early teachers, especially because we simply need to attract those teachers to education. I don't think we're gonna be luring them into teaching there for 20 years, so their salary's gonna be better. As well as teachers, pre-school education teachers, there is a little more dynamic growth proposed there. Unfortunately, their salaries have been neglected for a long time, so this is a fix. On the other hand, the amendment in the explanatory memorandum also puts in place what is the anticipated burden for the Treasury, but this amendment was written at the time of the forebears and actually - well, unfortunately, because it can be assumed that the average wage in the Republic will not grow as quickly as at the time of the forebears, so the burden on the state budget will be much smaller, or almost approaching zero. Because when we look at the draft state budget, the salaries of the educators are about to increase by 9 percent next year, and by simply dividing the numerator and denominator, we're going to be very close to the 130 percent limit. So it's important for us to get this into the law so that it applies at least to 2023 and those salaries have been maintained. The salaries, if we keep them, will not be as much a claim to the state budget as we are now trying to get to that level of 130 percent. It will de facto copy the percentage by which the average wage in the state will increase. So much for the salary of the teaching staff. The next amendment that we propose is under House document 5358 and concerns the maintenance of accreditation in the framework of continuing education of teaching staff. In particular, for those courses that are hours smaller, the Ministry no longer wants to grant accreditation, which I understand, on the one hand, that it is administratively very difficult, because there are many courses and accreditations for such small courses were issued de facto as on the running belt, but it should not in any way resign to the designation - at least part of the label - of the quality in these courses, and especially the school director should still have some information about the quality of the course, which teachers normally appreciate, what course teachers say is useless. For this reason, we also propose that there should be a reputation system, similar to the reputation system for e-shops, where the shoppers themselves evaluate both the seller and the product, and a similar system could exist for this continuing education of pedagogical staff at those smaller courses. But until an alternative exists, we propose that the DVPP should remain accredited. Another amendment under the House document SD 5359 concerns teaching subjects in a foreign language by a native speaker. It is not about teaching a foreign language by the native speaker, but about teaching another subject, for example, when teaching mathematics or history in English. This amendment concerns units, a limited group of teachers, there are not many in the Republic who teach this, there are not many schools that provide this, but they are faced with the problem that, for example, British teachers who have a Bachelor's degree and are full-time for teaching in their country, so our law on teaching workers does not recognise them because they require Master's degree. The British Bachelor's degree is at a completely different level and lasts much longer than our Czech Bachelor's degree, which is only three years old. Therefore, we propose that these teachers, who teach a subject in a foreign language, should be allowed this exception and only a bachelor's study is required that is sufficient in their country. Another amendment, House document 5361. We propose, in cooperation with Senator Drahoš, recognition of the assumption of qualifications of teaching staff who have long practice in education. At present there are teachers in education with 20 years of experience, and now we want them to complete their pedagogical education. Often it is about older teachers and to drive them to school before they retire, it is not particularly appropriate because their practice is already so rich that sometimes they could teach the teachers themselves. For this reason, we propose an amendment that affects about 4 000 teachers currently teaching, so that they are not required to supplement pedagogical education, if they have been teaching for at least ten years, of which at least the last five years have been continuous at the school, and this exception would be for the school itself. Another amendment under the House document SD 5744, which I propose, is the recognition of the assumption of qualifications for students in teacher training programmes. They are students of teaching faculties who have already completed their Bachelor's studies and teach part-time at school while supplementing their Master's studies. Even these students are hundreds, maybe even over a thousand, and they help out very well at a given school, when they actually get acquainted with teaching, and the principal often retains these educators when they finish their Master's degree. We propose that the Director be able to recognise the presumption of qualifications, similar to the ministerial amendment, and limited to the situation where the person has successfully completed the Bachelor's degree programme in the field of pedagogical sciences and is enrolled in the follow-up Master's degree. The recognition of this qualification is limited to three years from the beginning of the Master's degree programme, I think in three years a two-year study programme can be completed. And the last amendment that we propose is the addition of the position of social educator to the law on pedagogical workers, including the definition of qualification requirements. The need for these social educators is often increasing in schools. In fact, a social educator may be one of the few to visit the family, and especially in recent covido times it has been shown that in some excluded localities this educator would be very needed. There is currently a study of a social educator. At present, social educators in schools are under the so-called templates, which is why we would like the social educator to be enrolled in the Education Worker Act as one of the teaching staff. I will add that the position of a social educator is not to replace or duplicate existing pedagogical professions, it is not to replace the social worker of the community or of the institutions of social-law protection of children, on the contrary to supplement them. So much for my amendments, which I will sign up for in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Václav Klaus will now appear, and Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u8	Hello, I will briefly present one of our amendments. It is a House document 4490 and concerns the law on pedagogical workers. Honestly, we haven't had a law on teaching workers in decades. The schools taught, the directors were well aware when they had the opportunity to take a tractorist or a mathematician that they had put mathematics in front of the board. No law, no regulation needed the school system. Then the socialists here brought in this necessary document, which already has dozens of pages, very complicated life in schools, and now there is a very timid attempt to revise it in some way. The minister began relatively rationally in the sense that he would give the directors some freedom, but as it ran around the Ministry and various lobbyists and others, it became such a mess that, to say it to the public, the pig would not know what came out of it. We were in great temptation to read an amendment that would disturb the entire law. I think most schools wouldn't hurt anyone. In the end, it seemed too aggressive to us, so we made a rather detailed breakdown and really just a summary of the basic requirements that we have for educators to have a certain degree of freedom, because they are self-righteous beings, and at the same time the state declared what it imagines to be a primary school teacher, such as education, etc. That's the content of our proposal. Let's see how this proposal plays out. Otherwise, we are prepared to support the law as a whole, because there are at least the remnants of the liberalization efforts with which the minister was beginning to create it. And the real situation in schools - you probably don't know it, but it led to a lot of people abandoning the work they liked because they didn't meet any diction of the law on teaching workers. As headmaster myself, I talked a number of my employees into finishing some crazy courses paid by taxpayers, and they got formal education, and they could stay at that school to teach. That's where we are. We also live in the age of covid, so these are all the things the state does when it doesn't know what it would do with bumps and fortunes. I think that the time will be such that we'll be dealing with far more serious things about how to even finance the school system, how much of it to put on elementary schools, how much more of it to go on than to have fun with half the fun lyrics that the teacher has to go through and have. I very much plan to allow experts the opportunity to work in technical schools. It is once again a classic thing that we have a great expert often on the threshold of ameriture, he would like to pass on his art to the younger generation, and now he cannot, because he does not meet the pedagogical minimum, has no pedagogical education. This is all pulling like a red thread. I won't tire you any longer, it has about seven pages, but it's more or less a law on pedagogical workers deboned on the basic declaratory terms that the teacher should have for education, and it leaves a wide margin for directors. In short, it's something the Minister should have done if he hadn't been afraid of all those lobby groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u9	Thank you. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u10	Thank you. I would like to make a general statement on this proposal, on this amendment, and then I will then present two amendments. I created these amendments a long time ago covidová, because I think that teachers' salaries are undervalued and undervalued in the long term. I believe there will be at least some correction next year. So these designs really have been written down for a long time. And now for a novel about teaching staff. The current situation in education has long been faced with a lack of teachers. Teachers who often enjoy their work do not do this work either from a low financial assessment or from a lack of motivation to pursue this profession. [[reason]] It's a long-term situation. This amendment therefore extends the competence of school directors, who would also have the recognition of a teacher's professional qualifications in their competences. This would improve the conditions for newly working teachers and also, of course, the position of headmaster of the school. There are often major problems, for example, in secondary vocational schools, which focus on various technical fields. These are people who are experts in practice but do not yet have the necessary pedagogical education. Persons to whom the school director acknowledges the presumption of professional qualifications will be able to carry out direct pedagogical activities for a maximum of three years. If they want to continue to work in the pedagogical sphere, they must then complete their pedagogical education. I believe that this step could attract at least a little bit of people who have a taste and an interest in becoming a teacher and thus help our school system. I am not saying that this step will lead to a significant increase in the number of new teachers and thus resolve the current often critical situation, but it could at least help a small part. We will therefore support this proposal as a whole. And now for my two amendments. The first proposal is the House document 5302 and concerns the teacher's class premium. It is therefore an extra for classwork, which is not evaluated enough in the school system today in my opinion, and this work really takes up a lot of time, it is very complicated on bureaucracy etc. That is, the justification for my amendment. In the law on pedagogical workers, the definition of the activity of the class teacher is lacking in the long term. This definition is not included in other Czech legislation. For example, in the Slovak law, I found the concept of a class teacher, and there in the Slovak law this definition is contained. Classship in the Czech Republic is performed by more than 65,000 teachers without being adequately evaluated for this work. That is why this amendment corrects this deficiency. This amendment also aims to remedy a long-term adverse situation in the remuneration of teachers who carry out the work of a teacher as well as similar work at a conservatory, elementary art school or higher vocational school. It is no longer possible for a job that is largely administrative, but the basic work of the teacher is closely related and the state respectively. A given school requires such a teacher, not receiving a fair reward. The purpose of this proposal is also to eliminate certain discrimination between teachers, where a teacher, who, beyond his normal teaching activities, has to deal with yet another necessary agenda, has been put at a disadvantage, or as far as the financial remuneration is concerned. The school teacher's work is mine. manage and educate the class, include organizational activities, class meetings, class classes, consultation with parents, experts, etc. It also maintains appropriate documentation, such as: class book, class reports, records of pupils and others. Furthermore, the teacher also ensures safety and is in charge of prevention of security, when he introduces pupils with OSH and PO, rules of conduct on breaks, on school trips, events, school rules, etc., etc. It is quite incredible that so far there has been a reward for the performance of the teacher's work, and thus similar work at the conservatory, etc., as I have already mentioned, 20 to 60 crowns per hour of work done. So more often at the lower limit of this range, which I have just read. This is not a teacher's leisure, but his work, which he simply has to meet regularly. [[18.30 hours]] For the record, the class teacher's work takes about 20 hours a month to get a certain view that it really isn't a one-hour job, but it's about 20 hours a month. It is also very common that the teacher has up to 28 pupils in his class, which leads to even greater work for the teacher, since the classrooms are really filled. I therefore consider it appropriate to set a range between CZK 3 and CZK 4,000 per month. At the same time, such a reward for the work done will clearly show that our society can and can appreciate teachers in raising our generation and also gives teachers certain conditions not to leave education, but to use their knowledge and skills to successfully educate children and young people. That is what I have justified my amendment to class teachers. I believe that the increase in salaries next year will certainly make this right, but I still think that the class teacher as such should be anchored, or that definition should be enshrined in Czech legislation and should also be taken into account. I will now present my second amendment. It is under House document 4484. This House document concerns the teacher's adaptation period. Now I'm going to read you a brief statement of reasons. The amendment introduces a so-called adaptation period for teachers who do not meet the required professional qualifications. This adaptation period, which is to last two years, is provided by the school. In practice, it is assumed that schools will provide this by assigning a more experienced teacher, which is called an quoted teacher, and thus with such an early teacher is going through his adaptation period and somehow training him, teaching him and actually integrating him into the school process. However, this teacher will carry out this activity beyond his normal work obligations for which he is entitled to the normal salary of the teacher. Against the original plans for the introduction of this system, the government's amendment to the Act does not include any financial reward for such work by the teacher who is currently stating it. This would discriminate inappropriately against the teachers, once again against their colleagues, who will not have to take care of any early teachers beyond their working hours. In order to address this problem, this amendment of mine brings a solution in the form of a supplement for such an activity beyond the work of the teacher. Similar allowances for teaching staff are already included in the current version of the Labour Code. That is why the Labour Code is complemented by this amendment. So this is the sum of CZK 3,000. A supplement of CZK 3,000 per month is provided to a teacher who, in addition to direct pedagogical activity, also carries out teacher support activities at the time of his adaptation. Both my amendments concern teachers. And as I said at the very beginning, I believe that teachers' salaries are generally underestimated for a long time. And if we want a teacher in society to have some authority to be in society, for example, at a level similar to that of a doctor, a lawyer, then we simply need to improve these things - and how, other than concrete proposals? So thank you for your attention and I believe you will support my proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u11	Have a good evening. With priority rights for KDU-ČSL, Mr Mihola. [[Voices from the O.R.]] So you agreed that Mr. Marek will perform Výborný? [[Mrs. Valachová off the microphone.]] I have Mr Mihola's priority right here, but if you are dismissing it, then Mrs Kateřina Valachová. So you let each other go. Mr. Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, I may not surprisingly join a number of those who will remind you of the understatement of teachers. I would be here, and perhaps it might be surprising, as an opposition Member, to thank the Minister, because he has long kept his promises in terms of raising the salaries of teachers. And if we set up, and I say here together across this House, some target of 130 per cent of the average gross wage, so if the budget is approved and the 9 per cent is met, if I'm not mistaken, for 2021, this will be the promise that this government has fulfilled. It won't be many, but this one will be. And it is clearly the promise and success of Minister Plaga, so thank you for that. I've been visiting a lot of schools in the last few weeks and talking to the principals. I must say that none of them complained that even in this difficult covido period he would not have enough money to reward teachers, educators, for their work. So I think this is really a positive plus. Allow me to comment briefly on the bill. It sounds like we have to lure people who walk the streets, or it almost sounded like that, lure people who go out to teach. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm a teacher, and I've been running a school for a while. I don't know a director who walks down the street looking for a guy who might come in handy to stand up for the department. Of course, every director tries to find a person or an candidate who has a proper education. And the law we're discussing here today isn't about finding it from the street, but it's about solving emergency situations in regions where it really burns. And that director, if he has, for example, a long-term teacher who doesn't meet the conditions set by the law today, and the minister here said that it's being dealt with by gossiping over his head today, with various exceptions, this law would fix it in the short term. I think this is okay, and from my point of view, it's certainly not some conflict with the interests of teaching faculties or faculty-educating teachers. I'm sure you didn't. However, I would like to briefly imagine the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. It may not surprise you, I will follow up a little bit with my colleague Hyťhová, who spoke about it, but I will specify the proposal, it concerns the extra for sorting and the extra for carrying out specialized activities in schools. I, together with other KDU-ČSL Members, have already submitted on 20 April 2018 the House Press 159, which is still not negotiated at second reading, and therefore I have joined this proposal with the House Press 503, because, after the discussion with representatives of the Ministry of Education and, for example, representatives of trade unions, we have decided to go a little different way than in the press 159, namely in the law on teaching workers, to define the activity of the class teacher, which is not yet explicitly there, or to insert section 23b where this activity would be defined, and in connection with this in the Labour Code to define the surcharge of the pedagogical worker, but not a fixed amount, because here, of course, we are then getting into the trap of any necessary valorisations and so on. So I suggest not to go at a fixed price, but also to let the school directors have some will, I think that it is also necessary, they are managers responsible for their school, for teaching and also for the management of those class teams, or for performing specialized activities such as school speech, ICT coordinator and the like, and the range defined in my proposal is between 5 and 7 per cent of the salary calculated on the basis of the highest grade basis in which the teacher is assigned. So we are creating something that will not need to be constantly amended. And just for the record, I'm not going to name it here, which has already been said here, what a class teacher does even in those specialized activities is quite clear and obvious, but the truth is that class teachers' activities are undervalued today. Although last year the lower limit was increased by a hundred crowns to 500 crowns, the higher limit remained to 1,300 crowns, which is actually some 25 to 65 crowns per hour of work today, if we count on the average of twenty hours per month. I note that at a time of distance teaching, which has taken place at this time, or is still taking place on some types of schools, of course also the work of a teacher who has to communicate with pupils and so on, is not entirely simple. [[18.40 hours]] If we go with this median of 5 to 7 percent, we also reduce the demands on the state budget and on the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, which was originally over 2 billion. In the case of this range of 5 to 7 percent we would get to the costs that will be under one billion crowns, and I am convinced that the Ministry of Education budget can also afford that. At the same time, I would like to point out that this is actually a bonus for school directors to be able to reward the work of teachers that they do in this case beyond their direct teaching activities. Those of you who are not teachers, it is important to stress this. The teacher has, for example, a teacher. 21 hours in high school, but he's doing his class teacher's job beyond the 21 hours, and his time isn't going down for that, the direct teaching duty to say exactly what he's doing. So this is the subject of an amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, and I will be happy to support you at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u13	I will now ask for Mr Jiří Mihola's speech and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have never abused priority rights, and I have also listened to colleagues first this time because I am used to listening as a teacher, and also so that one can respond if necessary. So I will now allow myself to perform in a somewhat different tone than the previous speakers, in a more critical or critical tone. I don't think this law is beneficial, unlike a series of performances. Its parts could be beneficial - I think now the amendments that have been mentioned here. I intercede, and I have an amendment that concerns the surcharge for classrooms. That's confirmed, this is where I connect and draw. And I'm sure there are other little things that are positive. But in general, I look at this proposal critically. A lack of teachers. You know, I suppose this kind of thing doesn't happen day to day, month to month or year to year. And I would like to remind you here that the previous term was the coalition of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, during which the law on pedagogical workers was also addressed, which has just decided that the teacher must be qualified. I'm not gonna go into any more details right now. The Minister was then Deputy Minister, Mrs Valachová was then Minister of Education. It wasn't really that long ago. We all know how harmful instability is for education. I really don't understand. If there was a problem, it must have been then. If it wasn't such a big deal or something, I don't know why we're dealing with it in this way. I'd love to get some more accurate data. It's here from the Minister's performance... And I would like to join a colleague of the Výborný, thank you very much for the support of teachers with regard to salary increases. And even though I'm from the opposition at this point, I'm willing to say and praise that if this happens now within the state budget, it's Minister Plaga from the ANO movement who moved the teacher's salaries to the highest or the furthest. And I think... Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry a little bit, I'm speaking to you now, and positive - that this is the solution. [[The minister is not sitting at the rapporteur's table, but he is standing and talking to two Members, but he is going to sit in his seat.]] This is the solution to pay the teacher. And I'm not worried, I'm not worried for a moment that we'd be dealing with a teacher's lack. Those who left will come back because they were miserablely paid and unappreciated, and the new ones will be happy to join the faculty. It is still necessary to remember the faculties not only pedagogical, but the faculties preparing future teachers so that even those who prepare future teachers are adequately paid so that these faculties are sought after, exclusive and can, of course, develop as it suits the 21st century. And we have more than enough patterns in Europe. From what the Minister has said here, and some others, the lack of teachers is a problem not national, but rather regional, it concerns certain regions. That's the way we could talk about aprobation. We lack teachers of mathematics, physics and some technical disciplines, but we do not lack other disciplines, or on the contrary there is a queue for some fields in some cities. So we're really dealing with a regional rather than a national problem, and I think there should be another way. There was talk of the student concerned, let's call him an expert from practice, to complete his pedagogical education within a maximum of three years. Well, since we've talked about this many times before, I still haven't gotten a clear answer after the interpellation, what if you don't complete it. And I'm afraid I won't be satisfied with the answer to why he wouldn't fill it in. I just want to know what happens if you don't complete it. And that must be made clear in the law, not that somehow or that the principal can handle it. He won't be dealing with anything else after all. If it's really going to have a wert and it's going to be a lot of teachers coming into education this way, then it's going to be a lot of directors that are going to end up hurting their heads and regret that it didn't stay with the exception like it is now. I find it most annoying and regret that there has been a part of the amendment to the Education Committee that allows this pedagogical minimum to be done to nonprofits. I don't want to touch anybody, but I don't think it's the right way to do it when we're all stuck in front of teacher quality choices, school quality, so that, really, with any nonprofit's pardon, she can offer this if she decides to do it. That doesn't feel right to me. We're still running into an inclusion problem. And we know that's what it's all about, that the teacher must therefore be qualified, not just to lecture the substance, not to say look in the text or browse in the textbook or atlas, but because there he solves a number of other problems. And that may be a hundred times an expert in practice, but if he's not equipped and properly prepared here, he'll literally drown in trouble, especially in some places or in some schools. I'm sorry about one thing, too. Even on the school committee and sometimes here there are such clichés in the direction of those teaching faculties that may have had their reasons. But please, I, as a teacher who has been there for 20 years, and first of all, I've always stressed practice, practical learning, that's my basic teaching thesis, so I really grow out of talking such nonsense, with forgiveness, like there's little practice in teaching faculties. Such a person merely shows that he knows nothing about teaching faculties. And what changed in there or what to focus on. So please, even here, so that before anyone says anything like that, they really find out, and they don't say that nonsense. [[18.50 hours]] I'd like you, colleagues - I won't hold it up. I could read to you here as I do on other points, but it's not my intention to keep you here for long evening hours. Oh, please, I've had the Parliamentary Institute draw up these materials here. [[He's pointing.]] They are available to anyone interested - Preparation of future teachers. So we can have the comparison of what European trends are. And I understand Minister Plaga says we can't be like Finland right away. But we're cursing ourselves with Finland. And yet we want to be like Finland. Then why shouldn't we follow Finland's path? But if I say I want to have it the way I do in Finland, but I'm going the other way, it doesn't really make sense to me. And, okay, so Finland is for us, it's out there somewhere on the ceiling right now for us. Even though we're really better off with those salaries. But we have neighbors here, Austria, Germany, culturally historically, they're our closest. And that's where the exceptions apply at this point. What is currently in our law is in Germany, it is in Austria. No, nothing else. Not that we don't give a shit about qualifications, there's a shortage of teachers. When there's a shortage of teachers, it's the exception. I understand that exception, I understand that, but let's not make exceptions a rule. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] So please, I really recommend this material for study and inspiration. And I've got quotes from experts, educators who spend their whole lives dealing with these topics that teachers are, what teachers should or shouldn't be. So let me just quote a few selected thesis: "Teachers in primary and secondary schools cannot be prepared only in the course of some short training to stand in front of the classroom. Teachers are co-creators of curricula. They are given a relatively large degree of autonomy and bear part of the responsibility for the educational results of pupils. Therefore, preparation is necessary, which is based on pedagogical, psychological, didactic and field knowledge. Professional didactics, who should have a deep insight into these areas and should thus be able to implement such education, are at faculties which educate future teachers." And then I'd have a whole bunch of backgrounds on teaching practice or how important that education is next to the professional one. Both have to be balanced. Of course, the Šejdra route, pardonfully, would be if one as a future teacher focused only on the professional one, and it would also be weird if he had didactic know-how, and he didn't actually understand the field he's supposed to teach. So it has to be in balance. And that's what it's all about, there should be time for that. And I'm going to do more of this than make these quick-leavers here -- forgive me for the term, I don't mean it at all wrong -- but I really insist that if someone decides on a teaching career, for the profession of a teacher, they should know what it takes. The solution is, which is actually mentioned here by the Minister - I think it was also him - so that those faculties preparing future teachers could be flexible and that person could teach and at the same time acquire pedagogical education. But that's not the problem here, and I'm very happy to support that, and I'm going to appeal very much to all the faculties that prepare future teachers to be so flexible to make this possible. Teach four days and go to the faculty on the fifth day. It's unrealistic, isn't it, colleagues? Well, really, who's serious about this can't have a problem with this. And I'm sorry, there are arguments here: and what about those old teachers who have worked there for 20 years and have had experience? I will admit to them that in 20 years a person with no degree and no qualification will have much more experience than the newcomer. It's kind of like itself, if they really teach there for years. But let's also remember how long we've been talking about how this should change. So I don't like the fact that we're gonna be telling each other in 20 years that someone who's gotten in there is actually getting close to retirement and that it would be stupid to push him into having to do something. I beg you - I know this well as a teacher - he's been talking about this for at least 20 years. For 20 years, we've been talking about yes, let's leave the oldest ones there who can't change it now. But not that someone who got in ten years ago is going to argue today that why you should finish it. And that's what we were just discussing in the last parliamentary term. So, please, as a solution, first of all, money and recognition to teachers. And thank you again to the Minister and I wish him luck, and I personally want to ask all of you for your support so that teachers are truly appreciated, appreciated. They deserve it, especially the classmates. Don't be afraid to follow countries like Finland, or at least those closer. And even closer to the catching up, like Austria, Germany, and possibly in other countries, there is quality pedagogical education. I have experience from neighboring Poland. Let us insist that there are really flexible faculties preparing future teachers in that offer and that they really respond to needs or current situations. Of course, I want there to be enough teachers, not just increasing the number of pupils and so on. But let's really look for a good way towards quality. I mean, we're all really enchanted by it. Finally, let me read the amendment or remind you of the one I will read in a detailed debate. One concerns the extras of class teachers, because, as my colleague Výborný and others have said, this has been unspoiled for two years, it is said, and nothing has happened. So if it hasn't happened yet, it has to happen. So that's the amendment under number 5200. In fact, the second amendment is heading towards what I have been trying to put forward here with these arguments. That this law, with what it brings, is useless. He's useless. We don't need him. We need other ways to do this, and therefore Amendment 5202 is heading towards removing the part that is pointless from my point of view. [[Minister Plaga wakes up from the newsstand, turns his back on the plenary and cleans his things on the government desk.]] Finally, I would like to say that such a complex material would really deserve a professional discussion with everyone involved. I know there are objective facts at this point that prevent it, we can't meet, we can't do seminars or just online seminars. It's not exactly the same, and not everyone who wants to. So that I wouldn't be accused of someone: and what did you do for it? So I have held two seminars here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies on this issue. They were very successful, many of them attended as faculty representatives preparing future teachers not only of teaching faculties, but faculties preparing future teachers and also teachers from all levels of practice. [[The rapporteur is also leaving his seat.]] There were also representatives of associations - Association of Elementary Schools, Association of Secondary Schools. Finally, the Minister was always invited there, and when the Minister could not, there were other representatives of the Ministry of Education. [[Minister - remarks about the speaker off the microphone. Then he comes in front of the speaker's desk and looks at the speaker. Reactions from YES benches.]] [[19.00 hours]] So there was an effort in that sense. But before we take any hasty step in the sense, or in the assumption of a quick solution, let's really think about it. Thank you for bringing the YES movement in, I'm glad. This will not always succeed, colleague, that during the speech the listener will understand -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u15	Then we have nineteen o'clock, Mr. Ambassador. Ambassador, we have nineteen o'clock, so I'm gonna cut you off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u16	I'm making a motion to redeploy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-011-016.u17	Well, I've already interrupted you, so... I interrupted you anyway. So you guys are still gonna keep going after that, you're gonna get your word when... [[Messenger. I'll say it next time. Have a good night.]] You'll be given your word when the hearing is continued. So I interrupted you at that moment, you said some suggestion, you said you wouldn't ask after you got your word again, and after this point was opened. So I'm interrupting today's House of Deputies meeting. Have a good evening. And we'll start tomorrow at 9:00.
