ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u1	57. Government bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws /house print 673/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will also be made by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a government bill involving the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Regional Development. This is a much discussed law called 416, which is aimed at accelerating the construction of transport, water, energy infrastructure as well as electronic communications. It must be said that this law is very important and that it directly affects dozens of other laws, such as the construction law, the Energy Act, the Nature and Landscape Protection Act, the Road, Electronic Communications Act, etc. The aim is to allow for faster and thus more efficient preparation of transport and water and energy infrastructure structures, and what is important to say, also everything related to electronic communications infrastructure. The proposed proposal allows better use of new types of permit equipment according to the construction law, including for construction of transport infrastructure. It is proposed to allow the location and authorisation of the construction of transport infrastructure so called. a joint authorisation based on less detailed documentation. The proposal generally eliminates a large number of different binding opinions, permits, consents. It should be said that an environmental impact assessment was carried out on the project. It is proposed to issue a single binding opinion replacing almost all administrative acts issued under the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. It is important to say that the issue of these binding opinions is dealt with in several respects, it enters directly into the administrative order, in which the basic principle of issuing a binding opinion is thus enshrined without delay and at the same time a maximum period of 30 days is set for the issue of a binding opinion, respectively. 60-day period in specially complex cases. Everything about expropriation is also a very important part of this law. It is proposed for the purpose of speeding up the procedure for expropriating the establishment of clear deadlines for certain procedural procedures. Let me just mention three here, and that's called. 60 days, 15 days and 30 days. What's going on? Sixty days will be the maximum period from the opening of the procedure to the so-called an oral hearing, which must be set at least 15 days before the oral hearing, and the appointment of the hearing, and within 30 days of the hearing, a decision must be taken. These are quite important changes that the expropriation and the own process of course, not the merit of things, should accelerate. There is also a change in the valuation of land, in the sense of the constructions needed for the construction of transport infrastructure, in the so-called the preparation of expert opinions, by proposing explicitly allowing the production of one opinion for more land and buildings, which are therefore necessary for the construction of the transport infrastructure, as well as fixing the price and use for possible future purchases of those valued land and buildings. The proposal also deals in detail with the issue of the cancellation of crossings - we understand the railway/road crossing, this is the part of the traffic, and sets out specific criteria in which the cancellation of crossings is allowed to be met. This should result in a reduction of the accident rate at crossings as well as a more effective modernisation of the use of the runway. The construction of water and energy infrastructure is now being implemented into this law. It is therefore proposed to extend the Institute specifically. the interim decision, namely the construction of water energy infrastructure, which will be added to the annex to the law. The possibility of using the land entry legislation for measurement purposes and various exploratory works is also extended. [[17.30 hours]] The very important thing that has to do with these electronic communications is so-called. Lockdown. The fact is that actually electronic communication, which will be parallel to the line construction, such as some roads, etc., can be placed under one permit. So no special permission will be required under the construction law. That's what we think is very important. Relatively large inputs to the construction law are also associated with the introduction of a new binding instrument, so called. Land-use planning at state level. This is already coming from the Ministry of Regional Development, which will need details to address the intention concerning or intention belonging to the competence of the State. The territorial development plan will be the territorial planning documentation issued by the Ministry of Regional Development and will be binding on the acquisition and publication of the principles of territorial development, territorial plans, regulatory plans and decision-making areas. In view of the implementation of this instrument, so-called "the instrument' will also be created. the State Design Office, which will systematically address the processing of proposals for territorial development policy, their updating and all that is related to it. At the same time, it is proposed to create a national geoportal of spatial planning, which will also be part of the Ministry of Regional Development's register of local planning activities, which will be a kind of information system for public administration on the area planning section. The construction law then introduces an obligation for designers to process selected parts of these land planning documentation in some uniform standard, if this standard is of course issued. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to ask you to support this very important law, from our point of view, which should shorten all deadlines in the field of line construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u3	Thank you, Minister. Good evening, dear colleagues. I'll read an apology. Until the end of the day, Mr Jakub Michálek apologizes for personal reasons. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u4	Good evening, colleagues. In fact, the minister with his own case presented everything to you and told you about this bill. However, I will at least try briefly for those of you who are concerned with this issue and will be particularly concerned with the Economic Committee, a very brief recapitulation. It's Law No. 416/2009 Coll., so far the Act on Acceleration of Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure - Line Act - is one of the changes contained in the amendment proposal. This means renaming this legislation, this law, to the law, as I said, Linen. I would like to remind the rapporteur, at the outset, of the big one and to say the unique agreement that arose here during this parliamentary term in this House. It is almost for a day exactly two years ago, in the winter of 2018, when we agreed here to amend this law, at which time we called it a quick MP patch, a list of amendments on which there will therefore be broad agreement. And I look at my colleagues from the right hand or my right hand, and on the other side of the hall. At that time we were able to actually meet, a group of petitioners from all nine clubs here in the Chamber of Deputies, and we found a solution that, in my opinion, was and is a good compromise, and especially functional. I want to underline that. The government amendment, which is now being presented to us on a number of our 2018 steps, follows. It's just random. At the time, we agreed on the preliminary holding, the right interim decision, which we apply only to certain selected strategic buildings. We agreed on an economic committee that we would de facto try out what it would do in practice. The government is working with this list now, and it will be for us to consider and assess whether or not we want to expand it, for example. In the joint parliamentary amendment, we have also used a number of simplifications of the type of easier bulking of the parties. We've established the special authorities for territorial management and expropriation. Today, there are only 14 of them in regional offices. That's the thing that's been postponed. It doesn't work until September last year. On request or on a proposal from colleagues from the ODS, I would like to thank you for this to this day and to highlight it here, we have introduced a fiction of consent, where, therefore, if in administrative proceedings this decision is conditional on the institution concerned, he must decide by 60 and it was then very well negotiated on the constitutionally-legal committee and the proposal was adopted. And from practice, as I know from my colleagues here both from the ŘSD and from us from the Railway Administration, all these proposals that we have applied here in the House are starting to work. And I can also promise in this position as rapporteur that I will definitely want investors, primarily ŘSD and SŽ, Railway Administration, to show us some analysis on the Economic Committee and what it has done in practice over the past two years. Now here we have the promised government amendment. I confess, I expected her a little earlier. She came here to the House on December 10th of last year, but I understand because the inter-resurrection negotiations were quite complicated. I have had reports that, in particular, between the ministries of transport and the environment, it took longer time for consensus to be reached in the discussions on the solution of environmental authorisation. The agreement has been reached. So we are presented without contradiction. This amendment extends not only to that 416 but also to the Building Act 183/2006. So we can also see it as a certain step forward to the big recodification - now I don't want to go into the reasoning and speculation of whether and how it will turn out when and in what form it will be here. But you know me, I'm optimistic. I believe that, regardless of the debate on the recodification, we will reach the maximum possible agreement between us and this line law. At least for myself, I want to tell your opponents that my vision of the world and the negotiation of this law will certainly be the same as it was two years ago. That is, I will try to make sure that representatives of all the members of the Clubs here in the House are able to put theirs into this primarily on the Economic Committee. I'm not going to repeat what the petitioner said a while ago, Mr. Secretary. I will just mention, and it is fair to tell you who are representatives of municipalities or regions, that the proposal interferes with territorial planning. He quite seriously increases the commitment or validity of the territorial development policy, which means planning those strategic buildings over the regional plans and municipalities. That is fair to say in advance, and we will certainly address this on the committees. It specifies and clearly sets out certain deadlines necessary for the expropriation process and also gives clear deadlines. And that is precisely the inspiration for the fiction of consent on the matter of review. We were getting out of practice in those designs. For example, the purchase of land should no longer be according to expert opinions, but according to price maps, and so on, and so on. I won't hold it up. I will also join the general debate, where I would also like to say my opinion on some amendments. But now I'm going to follow the role of rapporteur of this law. I assume, then, that the Committee on Economics will be the guarantee committee. And we'll see what your appetite and your willingness to do these things will be. I say for myself that I would like to, in 2018, we were able to discuss this within six months. At the end of June, the law went to the Senate. So I'm telling you my request, maybe I'm saying that if we could do it now in six months, I would consider it a success and a consensus of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have four Members signed up at the moment. First in line is Mrs Matušovská. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, Minister, I can say that we naturally support this proposal for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. I only have a problem with laws that, in my opinion, do not come from an amendment to Act 416. You mentioned, of course, building law, environmental law and others, but in Article 12, there is a law on universities, which is actually a binding position on the accreditation of universities, so I wonder why it's there. If it's just not so-called. Sticker. And then, of course, Article 22 - school law and order periods. I'd like you to explain that to me, Minister. And of course, you don't have to get to know it right now, but it'll be enough for me on the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u7	Thank you. Next is Mr. Petr Dolínek, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u8	Thank you. I would like to say that social democracy considered this to be one of the priority issues in the field of transport. With this we have also entered the government, that we want to speed up construction and we also want to introduce clear rules in this area. I don't think any system will ever be ideal. That can never be achieved. There'll always be an "but." But here, on the basis of the work that was done here two years ago, as my colleague mentioned, on the ground plan of all the political parties and the ministries concerned, there has been a way, which has been prepared in a more perfect way, and for me it is crucial that this gives some predictability, some rules. I say they may not all approve, but this law tells us how to proceed. It is important for municipalities, it is important for regions, for investors, but especially for landowners. Thanks to this law, everyone will know that if there is a building that is subject to this law or where this law can be used, they know the rules under which it will be dealt with, and we will not get into those stalemate situations where we have unfortunately been in recent years. Once again, I say for social democracy - a colleague will then follow - that it is a priority law for us and we take it that we are fulfilling one of the tasks that we have given ourselves when we joined the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u9	Thank you. Mr Jan Birke in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I think I will follow up on my previous speakers. I will not say anything new, I will just repeat the words, I will not only repeat the words, but rather the mood or the feeling that the rapporteur, who actually sits in the role of the rapporteur today, was the one who, to some extent, connected the entire parliamentary political bloc to the first draft of Law 416, which was actually the parliamentary initiative of my predecessors and of my next speakers who will perform after me, just all of them agreed as political agreement on this law. I think it was exactly the way we all felt and felt to a certain extent that it was actually one of the ways to help transport infrastructure or Linen infrastructure, if you like, construction. It is true that to some extent some were skeptical, some were particularly skeptical about the list, which was accompanied by a sort of resolution, and I understand that to some extent it was a compromise. I want to say that at this point it is good that from the Ministry of Transport's pen, and, Minister, by your means, actually this proposal is tabled, because it can actually follow up on this political agreement, and I would like this, although we are not in North Korea, I apologize, but we could fundamentally agree on this law, because he really is not really right or left, to some extent. It's not real or left, but at this point, it's one of the possible tools that will clearly speed up the transport infrastructure. The reasons that my previous speaker, Mr Dolínek, said, and others, and certainly the performance of the mayor, colleague, my favourite mayor and colleague Ivan Adamec, who will follow me, will, of course, speak of the same things as I, when we as mayors or members of the government for us, when we have the performance of state administration in our administration, that is, the granting of building or territorial decisions and building permits, so I must say that, to some extent, it certainly should not be critical, because we are both dealing with the same problems. On the other hand, it is true that it is still not the biggest gros that will speed up the transport infrastructure, and it is, of course, the building law mentioned below, but it does not concern this amendment in particular, and please, let us not combine the debate that awaits us in the House regarding the construction law, which will be difficult, without discussion, but please, this issue as regards speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure is individual. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you, too - and I think I may actually cry well, but on the wrong grave - in that sense, to support this proposal, because, in my opinion, once again, it is one of the tools to speed up transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic. I may even ask that the question is that we should not forget, apart from the line constructions, which are railway buildings, the transport lines constructions of motorways and roads, so of course we must not forget the speed lines, which means so-called drills, and we should not forget in any way even the waterworks, that is, the question of implementing water works into this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u11	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I don't know why colleague Birke is giving me death kisses here from a political point of view, but okay, I can take it. But I must say that, of course, for the sake of clarity at the outset, I will support the mission of this bill to the Economic Committee, because I think there should be a lot of debate there, because the good intention does not yet have to meet our ideas. I'm always very careful when I hear a loud yes from all sides in the House, that we should speed up. So I say the other way around, nice and slow, let us look into this in detail, because we are actually seriously interfering with the legal order of the Czech Republic and it is definitely not funny. The 416, I pointed out, when we discussed it, I'm not so optimistic that it needs to be viewed soberly, and it must be said that the 416 only addresses one part of the legislation needed to build line construction, and it's that part, I'd say, in the second line, maybe in the third. I'll tell you my experience in preparing the construction of line constructions. You know, we can say that we have insufficient legislation, we can be inspired in the surrounding countries, such as Poland, Slovakia. On the other hand, you know, I don't understand one thing. Here it is criticized that construction authorities in municipalities with a mandate are not able to handle such complex things as territorial decisions. I want to lead you out of a mistake. We managed to do so on the section D11 from Trutnov Stříteže on the Polish state border, as it is said, without the loss of the flower and the only one who appealed, were people who were interested in the motorway and in connection with the motorway needed conventions to build the energy centre for the construction of new technologies in the field of energy, and the meeting of ministerial officials, and now it is not a criticism of the current minister, it was so scary that they simply filed the appeal just to draw attention to themselves, they own the land in that route, that they simply must not act like that. And I'll tell you one more guinea pig. You know what the worst part about driving was? The zoning thing? And we have to do that anyway, like, before we get to the 416. Well, that the state was giving the groundwork for 502 days. 502 days! Translate it for how long it's been. Otherwise, the zoning procedure has passed, it's final, it's legal, and the state can continue to show how serious it is, it can buy out, it can prepare, do geological surveys, we'll see how we do it. So what I'm saying is that we don't just say that we have the worst legislation, but also what kind of state administration we have. Now I hear of course - let us not evaluate the new building law that is being prepared here. Well, it's gonna have a big connection, and I think that the new building bill, as it's being prepared, is being prepared with good intentions, but completely wrong. But I'll criticize that when he's here. The 416. You know, I'm wondering how many times the 416 that's already been paid has been used, how many times this law has actually been used to speed up construction. I wonder how many times we are here in 416, actually using the approved parliamentary proposal, and what it has brought us. [[17.50 hours]] Now, I've heard some interesting things from the Minister here, and I'll be glad to discuss it with the Economic Committee, things that have kind of stopped me. I don't know if I understood correctly, but, you know, it's gonna be property rights. Expanding an attack on property rights is a very complicated thing, complicated. Here we must be very careful and very careful. And expansion, I would say, expropriating on some of the other types of buildings, outside of course highways, railroads, drills, energy infrastructure, so here I see it as a very dangerous step. And we need to figure out how far we can go as state officials in this case. I think we should be really very careful. I also learned that real estate will not be appreciated by an expert opinion, but that it will be based on price maps. I understand that maybe it's speeding up, but on the other hand, so that we don't see again that those people who are already in the process today, where the preparation has been going on for several years, suddenly finding out that they won't get the promised money for the property, but the price map will say something completely different that they're gonna get mad, they're gonna cause trouble, and it's gonna end with a lot of bitterness on both sides. I wouldn't like that very much. This also needs to be assessed in what cases it is for property owners, whether they are houses, buildings, or whether it's just land, how it's going to be projected in the current state, when we appreciate it, at least on some model examples. When we say we're all going to support this, I say yes, but we need to take it apart properly. We all want to speed up construction, but on the other hand, let's not act like we're gonna make one mistake after another behind the mantra of speeding up construction and then we're gonna cry over the profits. The result will be completely different than we expected. Again, I say that Parliament should not rush. He didn't hurry, because work hasty little valid, I say, even little paid. And the result in this legislative process is usually not worth a damn when it's done fast. So I suggest we release this bill to second reading, assign it to the Economic Committee. And I call on all those who have something to say and deal with this topic to bring their heads together, because really, if we want to speed up the preparation of line construction, we should do our best not to jump on cheap and attractive solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u13	Thank you. I'll read the apologies before I give the word to the next person in line. Member Patrik Nacher apologizes today from 17.45 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons, Ms Jana Krutáková today from 17.20 p.m. to the end of the day for work reasons, Minister Tomáš Petříček today from 18.00 to the end of the day for work reasons, and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologizes today from 18.15 p.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Kupka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u14	Mr President, fellow ministers, dear colleagues, I want to follow up on Ivan Adamec and, above all, I want to point out that it took the government almost a year to pass the law to the Chamber of Deputies. Those who have watched and eagerly waited for the law to arrive will undoubtedly confirm this, because all government officials have a full mouth on how to quickly build all line constructions, and when it comes to a specific act, then it takes a year to further release a whole series of buildings. I believe it is up to us to devote ourselves to this law in detail. Personally, I would like to add additional options to the amendments, especially to speed up the construction of new generation networks, because this should also include quick Internet access in the Czech Republic for faster Internet expansion, especially in remote rural areas as soon as possible. It is also one of the ways to prevent the further tide of people from the countryside, and this is a very important journey. I am very glad that the general fiction of the consenting binding position came into that law at the time when the time limits of 30 and 60 days were exceeded. It is an important step to ensure that, in general, not only in the field of line construction, but also in other building procedures, the whole process can be significantly accelerated and not allowed to be measured by people and the state by another metro. We, as citizens' democrats, have already submitted a similar amendment in the case of the administrative order, at which time it failed precisely to refer to the amendment that the amendment to the Act on speeding up the construction of line constructions brings. We'll keep a close eye on whether there's actually a similar solution here, so whether it hits or hits. Personally, I wish it hadn't crashed, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this is treated well and that we can deal with any legislative reservations in this proposal. At the same time, I firmly hope that we will be able to uncover any pain that Ivan Adamec has mentioned so that, with interest, we do not cause more serious problems elsewhere. And it will also be an opportunity to show if the government, when it prepares a new building law, is serious about limiting deadlines, if it really means simplifying the entire construction procedure, because in a number of cases, for example, when removing the binding position of the zoning authorities, when it was supposed to come to a specific solution, it finally blew away. I hope so strongly that it will not be this case that steps are really being taken here to speed up line construction, and with concrete amendments, we will try to complement the whole legislation so that it will reflect on other areas in a positive direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u15	Thank you. The next will be presented in the general debate by Mrs Dana Balcarová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on this amendment tabled by the Ministry of Transport, as a matter of fact, by the government. Unfortunately, I must say that the government is once again attempting to limit the rights of municipalities, citizens, landowners. And what bothers me the most is that this is justified by the fact that municipalities and civil society are trying to block these buildings, and it doesn't show any data at all. He doesn't say how many times this happened. In my opinion, the fact that the authorities that allow constructions are actually making gross mistakes, and the whole process is inconspicuous, and the evidence is often imperfect and has to be specified, so the error is mostly on the side of the authorities and those of their own builders. And because the state doesn't want to deal with this, it puts the blame somewhere else and doesn't prove it to anything, except it takes rights from people, municipalities and landowners. And that really bothers me very much. It bothers me that, as a result of this, there will be a great risk of damage to the environment and, as a result, people's health. In fact, there are several interests against each other here. I think health should always be first place. And what I find to be the greatest paradox is that, according to the Government's Legislative Council, it is impossible to assess whether the proposed changes would really lead to an acceleration in the approval of the buildings concerned. This is directly the opinion of the Council of the Government. The Council also has a problem with this because, according to it, the amendment is contrary to European legislation. Do we really want to discuss this proposed amendment? I think it's quite problematic. At the same time, I would like to say that there was not actually a settlement of the comments which the Ministry of the Environment, the City of Prague and other participants in the interreort had on the amendment. So for me, it's a very poorly prepared amendment that relies on some assumptions that are not documented and threatens the quality of life of our citizens and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u17	Thank you for your speech and I would like to ask Mr Polanský, who will speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u18	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. We have about one of the biggest amendments of this year and perhaps one last chance to amend the laws in the field of construction. The proposed amendment will certainly speed up the construction of the infrastructure. The second thing is how much we pay for it on the other side in the form of accelerated expropriation processes, etc. I name one example for everything, and maybe one question for the petitioner. The last time the law was amended two years ago, one of the biggest topics was preliminaries. This is the interim decision or the more aggressive way, the possibility of more aggressive expropriation. In addition to transport infrastructure, i.e. in addition to road and rail infrastructure, the law proposed energy infrastructure, under those conditions, of course, that this accelerated expropriation method could be used. However, colleagues and colleagues, energy infrastructure is no longer the same as transport infrastructure. Energy infrastructure is very often in the hands of private owners, whether it is a distribution system in the Czech Republic, e.g. E.ON, or gas infrastructure. And my question is how can we use an instrument to expropriate in the public interest, to build a commercial private infrastructure. I guess I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u19	Thank you. Mr Zahradník will be speaking in the debate. And I'll read the apology. Mrs Barbora Kořanová apologises from 18:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the environmental committee could also contribute to the distraction of the concerns expressed by President Balcarová here, so I suggest that the Committee on the Environment should also be elected as the other committee. When I have to, I'll suggest it in the right place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u21	Okay. I remind you that we are still in the general debate. The Member shall report to the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u22	Thank you. Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond here to Mrs Balcarová and have a little talk about how these buildings are being prepared and that the state is not capable of doing so and that it is actually about people's health and the like. You know, I remember the last recall of Earth Children on the D11 section, and now I don't know, from Hradec to Jaroměř, which of those sections it was. The appeal came one minute before the appeal period ended, and the appeal only caused the building permit to delay for a number of months before the state could deal with the appeal, and it didn't solve the matter at all. That's how it works. It's just this appeal of nonprofits, different environmental activists, they're just purposeful. And that's when the Ministry was able to negotiate with Mr. Patrik for the Children of Earth to take it down. I don't know what the result was, why they downloaded it, I don't want to judge it, but I don't think that's how it's supposed to be done. I think that the process of preparing a line construction begins with the EIA, among other things, first by setting the territory, corridors and so on, and then by doing the EIA. And there's the right place to appeal to those who are interested in nature, when it's actually the gros of their interest, so that the structure will damage the environment as little as possible, or at best at all. But they do it in every trial, which I think we all feel that she's not quite okay and that it shouldn't be like that. As far as people's health is concerned, I'm gonna tell you how many people are dying on first-class roads today, which are overloaded, full of trucks, and it doesn't matter if it's out of fatigue, driving indiscretion, or if they just start risking and overtaking those trucks in places where they shouldn't do it, overestimate their driving skills. But I think on the highway, on the other hand, the fatal accidents are significantly the least. That's what I have to say, it's statistics, I'm not making that up. And if we're gonna talk about people's health, let's just say it all. People's health, more people survive when they're on the freeway than they are on the ones. It's just reality, let's put it this way. I think we will always come across these two views here - property rights, private property protection, and the strategic interests of our state. We will also bump into the interests of municipalities sometimes, what happens when communities understand or don't want to understand... excellent, I would also like to... when communities don't want to understand that there's just no other place where this line construction could lead, and that they'll have to compare themselves to it in some way. [[to the members of YES in the front bench who consume candy:]] And most of the time, he'll understand the moment the line structure comes to the village sign and goes on leading the first-class road, when he finds out that this isn't going to work, and then he changes his mind quickly. So let's not argue, I'd say 100% that and 100% that. I think the truth is always in the middle. Let's just look for a viable path so we can help it. Because if anyone thinks that the car traffic, the transport of goods and the lack of railway capacity will survive the Czech Republic without losing the plant, they will not survive. It needs to be finished, finished. It's a big debt in the past, and now it's concentrated on us, because traffic has gotten densed up like on the road, and not just on the road, but on the railroad. Today you know that some of the tracks are overloaded, that even the train won't fit anymore. So let's look for a solution, and let's not say that we can't. It has to go, but we have to be reasonable, and we have to find a solution where each of these sides is going to discount a little bit from their absolute view of the matter, and we're going to find a solution that's going to be somewhere in the middle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u23	Thank you. I don't have anyone logged in at the moment. Please, Mr Kolovratník in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u24	I would like to respond in this general debate to both my colleague Balcarová and Ivan Adamec. First of all, it is true that in the environmental sector and in the state's relationship as an investor to those who are trying to protect the environment, landscape, nature, there is an ideal conflict here. And my colleague, you have, we acknowledge, to some extent, the truth that on the part of those applicants, ŘSD, SŽDC, the newly Railway Administration, these mistakes may occur, but I have to defend those colleagues from the executive that it would be mostly, often, that it would be mostly, I just don't think so. I understand and respect that we're probably not gonna get a complete consensus here, that it's about some of our feelings. But let's be factual and specific. If you've already looked into the bill, do čl. 6 and 7, and this is precisely the agreement between transport and the environment, for which - Minister Brabec is present - I would like to thank my colleagues for finally reaching it in the interdepartment and agreeing, so the proposal introduces the so-called Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. a single binding position, which will actually deal with the environment, and according to this, the construction will be further assessed that it is in line, and it will also be in the interest of the investor, in order to ensure that he has fulfilled everything. And this, I think, is a significant shift where we can achieve that very consensus. And I will also respond to Ivan Adamec. Thank you for his words, mostly, and I must say for myself - I completely agree that if we continue to interfere in that thin line between the interest of the state, the strategic interest of the majority, and the private property of individuals, we really must weigh on the scales, or, as they say, with surgical precision. And I don't want them to be empty phrases. I myself reject some crazy ideas, and I'm ready for the debate here. But one interesting thing. I've asked investors before if they'll bring the numbers to the economic committee, such as the preliminaries, the interim decisions, how they helped, how many purchases they've made. And you'll be surprised, co-workers and colleagues, there aren't many, there are quite few. And you know why? Because it's about psychology. Those who were on the other side, those who were always the last ones, suddenly realized that the state had already seen the end there, that there was the end there, that they simply couldn't do anything, and the price couldn't, and eventually they decided what was in the law for many years, on the so-called. Eight times, i.e. eight times the price. One of many examples, if you remember correctly, how we laughed here when we put a fence around the airport here in Prague in Ruzyn, the protective perimeter, why the fence is a strategic construction of the state. Well, that's because the airport is surrounded - and I'll be honest - by land speculators, companies with unknown owners who just refused to sell, and at the moment, I get it from the airport manager, when this law came into force and came into force, they eventually liked to agree on eight times as much as they knew they weren't gonna get out of that state. So even psychologically, we have to look at the law. [[18.10 hours]] And in the general debate, I am correct to report one more thing that I will persuade all of you across the political spectrum to look primarily at the constructions of ŘSD because of a specific example here at the preliminary holding, in the interim decision. The D35 motorway runs with us in eastern Bohemia, works, stops, continues, purchases run, and ten kilometers beside, in my native regional city in Pardubice, similar type of construction 1st, first-class road - I look at my colleague Ferjenčík from Pardubice Region, it will know there again - the construction done by ŘSD. And we have about three - and I have to say it really - speculators who attacked the court's expert opinion of the property and simply say, we don't care, we wait until the court decides in a year or two. And we, because we don't have an interim decision just on the bypass of the county city, we just stand there and wait. So these are also examples that I want you to see from practice, so that right here in the debate on the Economic Committee, at the IDA, we can say that we need to be willing to shift the weight in the sense that even such types of buildings, such as bypassing at least the major cities, really have a chance to get some more dynamics to build them. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u25	Thank you. I assume that Mrs Balcarová wants to respond to her previous speakers, which means she will make a point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík in the general debate? Yes. Please have a word on your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u26	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to my colleague Adamec with the fact that he said one example - one example - that the Children of the Earth blocked something at the last minute. But there's really one thing we're talking about. I can also say that, for example, at the D8 motorway, it was shown that project documentation was simply underestimated and that caused the collapses. We can't have fun like this. A colleague of Kolovratník said that - I'll probably say it exactly - that mostly and often it's nothing to lean on. And that he thinks - Mr. kolovratník, I'm talking to you now. I was just saying that you used instead of some specific data and data that you said that mostly and often something happens and that you think something is. We can't rely on that to prove that something is to blame, someone's to blame, that's why we're doing something. I would like you to put really specific data on the table, how often there have been delays in the construction of critical infrastructure and line constructions due to the fact that it has been blocked by citizens or municipalities, and how often there are delays on the part of the builder or any objective reasons. Let's really have fun over the data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I ask you to remain calm in the Chamber, we are still discussing this point. In the general debate is Mr Ferjenčík. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr Adamec and other previous speakers were talking about the balance of those public and private interests. I'm going to say one specific thing where I find it unbalanced, and that is that the state expropriates in favour of private companies. I think the law is going too far in this matter. I just don't think the state is supposed to expropriate for the benefit of private firms, and that's why I suggest that we return the law to recast, because I think there's a line that shouldn't be crossed here. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u30	Mr President, fellow Members, fellow ministers, I must say that what Mr Ferjenčík was talking about here is that I understand his position. But on the other hand, this is exactly the subject that we should discuss on the Economic Committee. I don't see any reason to go back to processing, because there's always gonna be something we don't like, let's face it. And of course, this needs a deeper analysis. It also needs to be told who the infrastructure serves, how it is, when it has a private owner and it serves the citizens of the Czech Republic. But that's a fine line we need to talk about somewhere other than this plenary. And I would like to see my colleague Balcarová with all due respect and in a positive way when she said about the D8. You know, when you do geological surveys, it's always about that, and I'm not an expert, how much, how good a geological survey you want to do, and how much money. Because he can do geological research for so much money that the preparation is so expensive that I don't think any civil servant can afford it, and cities don't do it any other way, by the way. And sometimes there's stuff in that territory that doesn't show up until it's built. I have another example. The D8 is famous, the slide there in connection with the mine. I have another example. D11 goes up the hill in front of Hradec, and suddenly the highway began to wave and while there was a geological survey. And imagine what just happened. There were ponds on that hill historically, sometimes in the Middle Ages. Who knew there were ponds on the hill? And, of course, at the site of the pond, the base had different properties than the geological survey to the extent that it was carried out was enough to record. And it had to be repaired. That's just what the building does. Anyone who builds in the field who can simply have such problems - and line construction doesn't choose the terrain much, because there aren't a lot of assumptions to lead it, because there's a lot of people expressing themselves and looking for an optimal route, and sometimes a geological survey, just a normal, classic one, doesn't have to reveal everything. That's what you get when you reconstruct an old building, and only when you uncover it will you find out what kind of trouble you're in. That's just an explanation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just have a very brief reaction. I think I have an idea what the atmosphere is in the room and that my proposal will probably not get the majority support, so I suppose we'll talk about it on these committees, of course. However, for me, it's just a crucial thing. I am generally not a fan of the state getting rid of its backbone infrastructure, I do not agree with the privatization of water in our country, nor do I agree that some key networks are privatised. And if they're already privatizing, then let the private owners bear the costs and not just the proceeds. And here it just goes back to state saying that in their favor, the law will be made. And I totally disagree with that, which is why I suggest we get it back to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u33	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anybody, and I don't have a debate or a place to look around, and that concludes the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u34	I'm done stalling. I just think it's good to say one thing, and that's expropriation. This is either not understood or not read. But we don't change the terms of expropriation at all. We're just shortening the deadlines. And it is true that, among other things, expropriation in the Energy Act today is quite common. We are simply clearly saying that the decision is given only after the expropriation office has demonstrated compliance with the terms of the expropriation law. So there's nothing against anything. The only thing is, this whole thing is getting shorter. However, I look forward to the discussion, it is evident that this is a very important law. Of course, there will be conflicting views. On the one hand, road safety, emission-free energy, on the other hand, environmental requirements. Sometimes it just doesn't quite happen. But anyway, I think it's gonna be an interesting discussion. Thank you so much for today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u35	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word, so we will proceed to the vote. I've called the MPs. [[Member of Montenegro is to speak.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u36	Thank you for the floor. So I'm interested that the Minister here says that nothing really changes in the area of expropriation, but this proposal also says that we also regulate the inter-regional holding for the construction of energy infrastructure and water structures. So that's where it's changing significantly. The interim hold is expanding not only to the transport infrastructure. The other thing is, even at the end of that list of buildings, we're also bidding nuclear power plants to line constructions. So, on the contrary, the law is quite important there, and we're going to need to go through a detailed list of the buildings that are completely bizarre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u37	We will take the vote. There is a motion to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I'll check you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We shall vote on the return of the proposal submitted for completion. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 161, 132 Members and Members, for 20, against 84. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? [[No.]] I have begun voting on the allocation to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 162, registered 135 Members and Members, for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I've got a Mr. Zahradník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u38	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I propose that the law also be discussed by the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u39	Please, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u40	As has already been mentioned here, given that there is also a regulation of the institute of interim possession and follow-up on expropriation, I would suggest a constitutionally-legal committee that should deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u41	Mr. Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u42	In view of the impact on the administrative order as well as on municipalities and cities, I would also like to propose that the law be also referred to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u43	Anyone else? Nobody. We will vote on assigning committees. The first vote will be the commandment of the environmental committee. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 163, registered 139 Members, for 56, against 17. The motion was denied. Next, we will vote on the commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 164, registered 139 Members of Parliament, for 52, against 11. The motion was denied. The last vote is the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 165, enlisted 139 Members of Parliament, for 49, versus 13. The motion was denied. I note that this press has not been directed to other committees. This concludes the discussion of this press. President Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u44	I would just like to comment briefly, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, on the vote. So here in the debate, Members are referred to discussing this with the committees, and then we will not send it to any committee. So I think it would probably be fair for committee chairmen to adopt this with ninety-one. Because where else are environmental aspects to be discussed than on the Environment Committee? Which was said here at this counter. I don't understand why it wasn't sent to any committee by voting on it all of a sudden. Let us be consistent at least in the order of ten minutes, when it was said here by Members as a necessity, where the House's majority subsequently votes against this. It seems completely absurd to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-014-057.u45	We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
