ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u1	334. Government bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 514/ - third reading We launched this item on 19 June at the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The debate has been interrupted. I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take the position at the rapporteur's table. I recall that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 514/5, which was delivered on 4 June 2020, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 514/6. I ask if the applicant or the rapporteur of the guarantee committee wants to speak now, if necessary. [[Minister Toman: Yes.]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u2	Hello, Mr President, Madame Members. I'm just going to give the government's bill very briefly. The Government's bill amends Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees. The amendment implements the transposition of the European Union Animal Protection Directive, introduces the definition of multiplication plants, provides for a ban on the breeding or reproduction of dogs and cats in the breeding plant and so on. At the same time, the amendment introduces a licence to perform public appearances with selected species of game and their reproduction in circuses. As far as other matters are concerned, the amendment further proposes tightening the conditions for breeders of species requiring special care in interest farming. Furthermore, the aim of the law is to ensure that the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended competence do not have substantial financial problems in the placing of abused animals in preliminary replacement care or replacement care. Furthermore, the bill further specifies and explicitly regulates the obligation to ensure that an animal does not harm or kill another breeder's animal. It regulates the deratation duties and extends the scope of the possibility for municipalities to impose an administrative punishment for the forfeiture of an animal or a protective measure to prevent an animal. This Government proposal was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted. As part of the second reading on 3 June, a number of amendments were tabled to the various areas of the Law on the Protection of Animals against Abuse. The amendments concern, in particular, the prohibition on the sale or transfer of the dog to public areas, the prohibition on the killing of animals by freezing, the tightening of requirements for the professional competence of persons in the slaughter of animals and so on. This means that we have supported these amendments because we think they will contribute to improving the proposal and therefore agree with them. In addition, amendments were made to compensate for the ban on the breeding of fur animals. The Ministry agrees with the principle of compensation as compensation for damage, in the form of a rate for individual animals. Of course, I must also stress that the Ministry agrees with the reduction of rates, this is the amendment by Mr Pošvář, taking into account the financial possibilities of the chapter and at the same time the defence of the proposed amount of compensation. [[9.30 hours]] At the same time, I support the decision of the Agricultural Committee, which has not adopted an amendment concerning the prohibition of cage breeding of laying hens. I have already said here last time that I recommend that we let the consumer decide what eggs he prefers, because if there is to be a ban on cage breeding of laying hens, I believe that it should be laid down uniformly throughout the European Union, because this established ban will only make our farmers' competitiveness worse for the Czech Republic. And since we have said that this would be good throughout the European Union, I would like to say in this context that I have sent a request to the Council of Ministers, a declaration by the Czech Republic to ban laying hens in cages, a pan-European one, and in this declaration we propose that, in the context of improving the welfare of laying hens, the European Commission submit a ban on laying hens in cages throughout the European Union. The Council will discuss this declaration next week on Monday. So this was, I think, important to say that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken the initiative of the European Council to ban caged laying hens in cages throughout Europe. So thank you for your attention and have a nice day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u3	That was the Minister. I'll ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee if he may be interested in speaking as well. There is no interest, so we will now continue the interrupted debate in which I have a number of Members. I will now give the floor with priority rights, and Mrs Monika Jarošová will present her position in the third reading for the SPD. Please. . [[Noise in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, the Animal Protection Act, which is now in its third reading, aims to increase the level of animal protection in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u5	I will interrupt you, Madame. I ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u6	Thank you. Its purpose is to protect animals from abuse, harming their health and killing them without reason, even for negligence. Our SPD movement is not indifferent and we will support any legal protection of animals and their improvement in life, including the ban on caged hens. Here I will briefly mention my amendments to this animal protection law, which extend and prohibit methods of abuse and killing. It's freezing alive without a previous stun. This brutal method has not yet been banned in the Animal Protection Act. We also want to remove dogs and cats from the list of laboratory animals. We take the view that in the twenty-first century, the practices of the industry based on experiments with defenseless creatures should be put to an end. And how else to start than just dogs and cats? Furthermore, the third amendment is the obligation of breeders to register the identification number of the dog, the so-called chip, into one of the existing private registers, which will contribute to the fight against multiplication, and at the same time a better lost dog will be tracked down. Another proposal is to increase administrative sanctions for animal cruelty, which have not been increased since 2008 despite the high brutality of perpetrators on animals. And the final proposal is the obligation to distribute designated animals in stores by gender. Unfortunately, it often doesn't work out with the vendors of live animals, especially in pet stores, so it often happens that although you don't want to, you buy a pregnant female. Then we will see unwanted additions and there is an unwanted multiplication, including the fact that too young females die unnecessarily after birth, regardless of the high animal health costs in the case of diseases in relational crossbreeding. There's nothing easier than a designated animal to separate from the supplier before they get to the store. [[Enduring noise in the hall.]] The SPD will, of course, support, as I said before, any good proposals that contribute to improving animal life. I also thank you for supporting my amendments and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u7	Thank you. And I will once again ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace, because, at the end of the day, we almost did not hear what the Member was talking about because of the noise in the hall. Mr Václav Klaus, who is not present to everyone, will now be the next to speak, so his application is forfeit. The next will be Mrs Margita Balaštíková, who is today's birthday. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u8	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to make two points in this law. Now it's going to be point one, and that's the amendment to compensate farmers for fur farms. There are two amendments on the table. One is served by me as chair of the subcommittee, where this issue falls, and the other by my colleague Pošvář. Both aim to remedy the situation created on the market, and the difference, of course, is the amount of compensation. I would like to say that the media campaign that is being waged on this amount is regretting that it is so terribly untrue and neglecting that there are expert opinions on which my amendment is based. I won't argue that a forensic expert has a different amount than ordinary people imagine. The man is educated for this, he has a round stamp on it, and so we would get into something really different that can't be called democracy. I'd like to say why the amount is so different. One single item has escaped attention, which increases the price, and that is the price of the breeding herd. Not only the price of single animals killed, but the price of the breeding herd. And that really is the difference of 80 million. So if we want to be fair, we've banned these breeders from keeping the animals, so we should be fair and be able to compensate them in full. And what I would like to say is not true that there is still compensation for lost profits and that there is compensation for property damage. Of course, the breeders of fur animals demanded this amount, but there was an agreement that they were to waive the claim for loss of profit and to waive compensation for non-property damage. So it's not true. And if we vote for our colleague Pošvář, we usually robbed those people. That's right, those aren't emotions, those are numbers that are backed up by expert opinions, and I daren't argue with that, I'm not an expert in the valuation of fur farms. Who is and who wants to look like that, please. I'm not gonna touch his conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u9	Madame, I would just like to ask you one more question, because, as we see on the board, you are logged in there twice, now still and again as second to last. Isn't that some kind of mistake?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u10	No, it is not a mistake, Mr President, I will perform once more. I didn't want to have such a long show. [[- I see. You're logged in twice more.]] No, one more time. One more time, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u11	Okay. I'm just trying to keep an eye on it. So, Mr Petr Bendl will speak now, please, Mr Member, and Mr Martin Kolovratník will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u12	Thank you for the floor. I hope he hears me through that muzzle. I'll try to be clear, hopefully. I only logged in once. I don't want to talk about this for too long, even if it's a debate. I'm afraid it'll turn out in the words of a classic -- we meant well, but it'll turn out like it always does. However, at least a few notes on the key things that we are discussing inside the laws that many of us consider really important. First of all, I'm going to say what's basically bothering me and what I think we're going to have to change in the future anyway. The minister here said that the law regulates the possibility of municipalities with extended scope to deal with the situation of abused animals, which, on the one hand, is good, on the other hand, there is another alibi. The law says the village can, not must, and that is if it is an abused animal. I think that this "may" is to be changed to "must" in the future and it should not cost the village that if it costs more than CZK 200,000, then the state will contribute to solving the situation of abused animals. In principle, I think that the state should behave responsibly, and at the moment when it is an abused animal, a provenly abused animal, which we can prove, then the state is obliged to intervene and should not say that the village can intervene. [[9.40 hours]] I know it from practice. Last month, or last two months, I dealt with one particular situation of abused animals in the village of Žilina near Kladno, and from practice I can say that this was the very word of debate, whether the village will eventually do it, who will pay, where the animals will move, etc. In my opinion, we should look for a solution that says that if it is an abused animal, the state must intervene, and should not alibistically say that the community can. I believe we can agree on this in the future and change the situation. Just as I've come to believe that a person who tortures an animal in different ways, that person just isn't okay. I think that he should undergo a thorough psychiatric examination, and on the basis of that, the animal should continue to be banned. Because people who do this are not people in a good way. I'm gonna mention the media stuff, that's a ban on cage breeding. Citizen Democrats will support the ban on cage breeding and we will expect to delay efficiency - either by 2027 or 2033, the House will decide somehow, see what happens. I don't think it's gonna be the same as in the case of fur animals where there's been an absolute ban, and today we're having a difficult time figuring out how to compensate for the losses that the breeders had. I think it will be time to prepare for this, and I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture will prepare the existence of specific programmes to help those to whom it touches investmentally so that Czech agriculture in this area has a chance to withstand the competition and, at the same time, to treat animals more kindly. What I've come across and we haven't discussed it much, I want to pick it up here, even though I don't think we have a chance to do anything about it anymore, we're in third reading, it's Section 9 letters. g), where I am. Forbids the picking of tails in sheep and goats. I actually have to report it here, I'm an ecologically farming farmer who, among other things, keeps sheep and goats, and I know from practice that if within six days of birth a lamb doesn't get a tail rubber so that the tail falls away in a painless way, and the tail stays there, then it's a breeding ground for one of the aggressive flies that puts larvae in that wave, and the larvae gradually eat the sheep alive. And we here forbid environmental farmers from doing this. I think it is not good that we should be looking for solutions to enable farmers to take this preventive action against myiages, because conventional farmers will be able to continue to do so, that is what the law allows, but so-called. a bloody way, which I don't think is good. And it's a shame that this paragraph is ultimately in the government's material, I don't think it's supposed to be there, and it's a shame. I will also express myself to a tied housing like a man who keeps horses. The state here proposes that there be exceptions to binding housing for state facilities. Because the state has some facilities where the horses can't otherwise be housed but in a way that they're tied up in shtonto - now it's fallen out - they're just tied up and they can't move more freely. I think we should have looked for a solution a long time ago, which is how I turn to myself, and I repent that we still have a binding housing in state studs. We shouldn't have it, we have studs, breeding mares, animals with the future of breeding, and we should withdraw from the binding housing as soon as possible. If it passes in the law of delay, I would beg that the Ministry of Agriculture should do its utmost not just to wait for a time when it will be mandatory if this bill passes, but to get rid of the binding housing of horses or livestock in general as soon as possible. It's definitely in the interest of the animals. As far as the circus is concerned, I must say there that I do not think it is entirely happy to ban circus activities. I consider it the right way to modify the way of breeding, to say what kind of background and conditions individual animals need to live, but not to say that we will ban this sector, we will essentially destroy this, because I do not consider it right. This journey is the way to guard the conditions of life of individual animals, and if someone fulfills them, why forbid him any activity. So we're not prepared to support this matter. As for what Mrs Balaštíková said. I am simply convinced that compensation to fur companies - and, after all, it confirmed it in second reading, I believe, Mrs. Exministra Válková, who said that by law there must be two independent opinions and they should determine the price, the cost of compensation to the state of fur farms, which the Chamber of Deputies forbid, is to pay. Two independent reviews. Unfortunately, we don't have those. And the designs that are here are based on objective data, and there's no way to stand up for them. Then I would like to make a comment on my amendments. Most of them are based on debates with scientific capacities of the Faculty of Medicine of Charles University in Pilsen. I acknowledge that I have been beaten up by the arguments of the Ministry of Agriculture that a number of my amendments are contrary to some of the European Union's directives. It's impossible for a man to know everything. It is a pity, Minister, that the Ministry of Agriculture did not communicate with scientists. First of all, the Faculty of Medicine in Pilsen is currently working with experimental animals, they have some knowledge and they have gotten to the material only because we have provided the proposal and discussed it with them. Perhaps next time it would be good to say inside the Ministry of Agriculture that the scientific capacities that meet in their work with animals should be part of a reminder point to look for solutions, because we all curse here by wanting scientists in the Czech Republic to have the maximum space and to go hand in hand with scientific capacities in all areas, because it is more than having some warehouses, that we simply need to support business through scientific quality work, and here we have not met. I'm so sorry. I hope this changes in the future. Multipliers. Citizen Democrats are prepared to support all the proposals that will lead to better detection of people who do not treat animals adequately, create good conditions for their lives, and try to provide animals with conditions that may be inhumane at the expense of enrichment, certainly not the conditions that animals deserve. So we will certainly support all the proposals that will lead to punishing those involved in illegal multiplication plants. [[9.50 hours]] And then I have one more comment about animals, if the minister listens to me, it's the last one more because I don't know if it's part of the law or whether it's part of the decree. We've talked about this in part. I believe that the path of slaughtering cattle, especially on pastures, is on the table. I consider the fact that today, when someone wants to beat a cow or a bull, they have to drag it literally and into a stress letter into a facility where the animal is subsequently killed - I consider it a far more humane option to kill an animal right in the pasture, where they have no idea that something like this is going to happen. The animal isn't stressed out, it's not dangerous or the transport isn't there, because the transport of a wild bull to a place where it can legally be defeated is terrible. Who you've been through, what a stressful animal it is, you know what I'm talking about. I think it's far more humane to kill the animal right on the pasture and, of course, under hygienic conditions, transport the animal to the slaughter. I would very much like the Department of Agriculture to be active in this area and come up with some legislative proposal that will make this possible. And that's the end of my debate. I hope that we will finally come to some reasonable compromise in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u13	Mr Martin Kolovratník will now appear and prepare Mrs Dana Balcarová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u14	Thank you for the word. Colleagues, colleagues, good morning to you. Today I am going to speak briefly, even though the person who is mostly speaking here in connection with the elections or the laws of transport, so today I am going to speak briefly about this law. And it is for this reason, as you know, that my amendment is also in it. It is an amendment, which is referred to under letter P and which, from the whole wide issue, is devoted to a well-known or much discussed ban on caged hens. To begin with, I definitely owe you and the public and the viewers who are watching us an explanation of why this is my activity. It's simple. It comes from my family, from my personal close life, where the proposal that this matter should simply be forbidden to join a modern society abroad, whether in Austria, Germany, and I believe other states of Europe to be one of the first, so it simply makes sense to me, and even as I watched the discussion of this law with my colleagues on the agricultural committee in the first half of this year, I knew internally that I would be happy to support these proposals, I will also talk about them with my colleagues who may not agree with it. Without knowing any more details, as a spectator, as I watched, I studied the details and understood them. You know I was here last term. I remember very well the issue of banning the breeding of fur animals, those farms where we have long dealt with the economic side of things, with arbitrations, with compensation for lost profits and so on. And for that reason, I am finally, together in teamwork with experts, with the People of the Image movement, with Mr Voršilka, whom I will be happy to name, so we have prepared a proposal together, which I now want to introduce to you and briefly discuss it. We see him as a compromise. We are ideally based on the proposal of our colleague Honza Pošvář, from which 2027, but very simply what we are adding there are two possible exceptions to the potential economic problems. One exception works with 2030, where breeders will be able to apply for an exemption from the regional veterinary administration if they demonstrate that the construction of new buildings, new facilities, the transformation into alternative systems while maintaining the same production volume is difficult for them, almost impossible, demanding for various legislative, procedural reasons that they themselves cannot influence. So they can get an exception like that. And the second exception goes even to 2033. It seems a long time ago, but I believe that if it's an exception, it'll be isolated cases. And she's working with the fact that you must remember what you're interested in, that until 2017, it was the last term, the current, the expanded cages, the enriched cages, were being introduced on the basis of the changes in legislation at the time. And 15 years is the life of such devices. We believe that this is a reasonable compromise between social awareness, the mood in our society where we want to do such a thing and the economic side of the thing. To support my proposal very briefly for you who may not have decided yet, I have three materials in my hand. There's a letter from Mr. Zbyněk the Opatrný of Tovačov. [[He's pointing.]] He is, my friends, a private laying hens farmer with 20 years of experience. He even won the award of the Olomouc Region Product. He's a member of the Association of Private Agriculture. And this breeder clearly supports us and this path. That was a strong argument for me, why I think we're going the right way. Two other materials - one is Czech: Practical recommendations for smooth breeding of laying hens in aviary systems. [[He's pointing.]] So please, for those of you who are concerned about the economic impact, I am responding, there is already a methodology in the Czech Republic for laying hens to have the performance, the fertility, so that the amount of production is not limited in any way for breeders. And I have even managed to get - I have it borrowed - from Lower Saxony, from Germany, a relatively extensive serious material that accurately and already very professionally describes this issue and this new methodology for breeders there, shows them how to be successful. [[shows]] So I believe that these are also materials that are at least easy to translate from German into Czech, and that even Czech breeders could be inspired by this. I think we can be happy and potentially proud that the Czech Republic will once again be such a leader, who will be the leader of the European Union. So much for defending my proposal under the letter P. The last - for the petitioner and rapporteur - is the legislative technical correction of my proposal, which I would like to read here. My proposal, the text only specifies the references to the individual letters in the sections of the law. I'll explain. It was so that when we wrote my amendment, we referred to the original wording of the law, which was wrong. We should have referred to a government amendment already in place. So I repeat and guarantee, in this legislative technical repair there is no hiccup, no change of meaning or any shift in content. It's really just a textual specification in the introductory words, in the references to the novel. It reads as follows: In point 6 of Article 27 (2) of the EC Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of And the second legislative technical correction of my proposal: in paragraph 8 in Section 27a para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (c) the text j, k or l is replaced by the text j up to l and the text k, l or m is replaced by the text k to m. As I say, it is only legislatively technical within the scope of my amendment. So please the rapporteur in the vote to include this legislative technical regulation in the procedure. Thus, the amendment letter P, which I see as a compromise, and I beg all of you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u15	Mrs Dana Balcarová will now appear and Mr Radek Holomčík will be ready. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[The MP puts a stuffed hen on the speaker's counter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about this novel, which we will approve today - an amendment against animal abuse. I'd like to say that for the pirát, this is a very important subject. We would like to move livestock farming closer to how animals should behave in the 21st century, which means that their lives are not full of unnecessary suffering and that one does not earn more just because it is simply at the cost of living in really scary conditions. Animals are living creatures. According to the Civil Code, from the status of being previously perceived as a thing, animals were perceived as a thing, retreated, and today we see them as living creatures who perceive pain and suffering. And, of course, if they're kept in some drastic conditions, their lives are really full of suffering. I brought a chicken here with me, so it's stuffed. A fellow Zahradník asked me today if I've ever seen a live chicken in my life. I can say that I saw that I grew up as a kid, I went on vacation, where my aunt had chickens in her garden, and they had their name, so I know what a chicken looks like, which feels good and that life just has in nature, in motion. But, of course, I am aware that there must be more economical farming of hens, but even after we organized a round table on the Environment Committee, where we were actually discussing how it is possible to switch from the form of cages to other types of cageless breeding, we were actually in the debate, which was also attended by Professor Hartung of Germany from the University of Veterinary, about the fact that this transition took place in Germany within four years, even without subsidies, on the basis of state loans only. So in Germany, it was done in four years. I therefore submit an amendment prohibiting cage breeding since 2025. I respond to the fact that even Czech food chains, supermarkets have committed themselves no longer to selling caged eggs in their stores, and so have some producers. So I think it's actually all set up so that in 2025 there's basically no demand, or so big, for cage eggs. At the same time, it also urges that surveys that were made in the spring of this year say that 78% of Čech do not want chickens to be kept in cages, while 87 percent of Čech no longer want to buy eggs from cages, so I think it is a good situation for us to actually listen to the wishes of the Čech and our voters at the same time. I would like to ask and ask if you would support my amendment, which, therefore, is heading towards the end of the cages by 2025. But I would be pleased if you would also support Mr Jan Pošvář's amendment, which has an amendment heading towards 2027 or Mr Kolovratník, who spoke here before me. I think that all these three amendments will have a very desirable impact on the quality of life and how chickens will be kept in the Czech Republic. The second thing I would like to ask if you would support my second amendment, which has the number G11 and should facilitate the detection of dog and cat reproductions and should prevent animals being abused in the dwelling in a drastic way and there is no way to prove it when the abuse already has the level of crime. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u17	I will now ask for Mr Radek Holomčík's speech and Mr František Vácha will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief because I would like us to vote on this law after two years today. I'll just say three things. Firstly, I see the arguments that say that, in terms of the impact on our agriculture, the effort to abolish cages should be pan-European. I am certainly not saying that we should not cancel it with us, that would be a bad interpretation of what I am saying, but I think that if we really care about moving into the 21st century in our approach to animal protection, we should take advantage of the fact that we are part of the European Union and try to actually make this practice disappear from the European Union as a whole. I have noted some of the activities of some MEPs in the European Parliament. I have information from our MEPs that the European Parliament should be dealing with resolutions in the near future to address this in some way that would comment on 'let us abolish this in the whole of the European Union'. I have also talked about this with the Minister of Agriculture, and I would like to call on us to join together here because it is animal rights and agriculture. I think that if we find a consensus and we are both on the ground of our Parliament and on the ground of the European Parliament giving the support to the activities of the Minister, who said that he had put a proposal on the table for the abolition of cages throughout Europe, we can help this matter and it would be another example of being able to agree on the ground of the Czech Parliament, the Czech Chamber of Deputies and do this campaign together. So I hope that my challenge here falls on fertile ground, that we will pull together in this matter. I think it would be a good business card for the Czech Republic if we became a pan-European leader in an attempt to end cage breeding throughout the European Union. That's the first thing. The second thing I wanted to say, and I would like to follow up on what Mr Bendl here said about the slaughters on the pasture. I have already proposed once or twice to the state budget an increase in the budget of the State Veterinary Administration to ensure veterinary supervision at the so-called detention sites of slaughterhouses. In principle, the animal that lives on either pasture or is eventually housed, stuns and bleeds to death in an approved facility near the pasture or the place where it lives, thus actually getting rid of the transport, the stress associated with the transport to the slaughterhouse. At the same time, foreign experience shows that this also creates a rather interesting range of products for farmers, because customers, and it is happening in the Czech Republic, are increasingly sensitive in relation to the protection of animals during abuse, so I think that if we support this thing, the detachment of the slaughterhouse, we will actually give farmers another opportunity today to get into black numbers, how to prosper, and at the same time help the animals reduce their suffering, in this case connected with transport to the slaughterhouse. According to the information I have, the decree is basically prepared, even as it is now, it would certainly deserve an update. Veterinary law doesn't prevent it. And I certainly do, although the budget for next year will be tense, then I will propose again, because I think that it is certainly right to support our farmers in this way and, at the same time, it is actually a modern approach to protecting animals from abuse and increasing their standard of living. And the last thing I'm gonna say here, I'm just calling in a motion to change the procedure. I'll explain it here so I don't hold off before the vote. I will propose that paragraphs 6 and 7 be swapped so that, in the case of compensation for fur farms, we first vote in favour of Mr Pošvář's amendment and then on what came from the agricultural committee. [[10.10 hours]] In principle it is that we first adjust the mechanism, virtually. the parts of those compensations to the form on which there is some agreement, and then we approve that the compensations will be paid. This is also being negotiated with the rapporteur, and I think it is a very helpful step for the calm of the voters, because, for example, the pirát have said that we strongly support compensation because there has actually been a hard shutdown from year to year, but we want them to match real numbers. So then I'm going to ask you to support my proposal so that we can adjust this voting procedure. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u19	Now I have one point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher. But it's strange that I've had a few minutes of light here, but I don't see the MP. Yeah, I see you, so please, you have a point of fact. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u20	Thank you. I'm in a different place to keep our distance. But I suppose I'm not that small to be seen. I already volunteered after Martin Kolovratník's performance. I would like to say before the parentheses that I support the amendment which I consider to be a compromise, that is the Martin Kolovratník amendment. And in that spirit, I wrote back to those people. I got over a thousand e-mails. I don't know where the rest of you are. So it is multiplied by any other legislative proposal. However, that is how I will act in the vote. However, I would like to ask because I am not an expert on this subject, two such fundamental questions. One. We're talking about chicken breeding, cage breeding -- if it wouldn't be more effective to ban the sale of eggs from this breeding, because from the feedback I've had when I checked the answers to the e-mails, so that we don't ban it here and then bring eggs from this breeding from other countries where it's not forbidden. In other words, my question is whether something like this can be arranged at European Union level. So it's not like we're gonna accept something here, and then somewhere else, there's gonna be more caged chickens. That's one question. In other words, a ban on sales, not a ban on farming. I think that's more efficient. I mean, I'm trying to buy free-range eggs, too, and I have to say, in some stores, I'm not gonna succeed, I'm not gonna find them. It's just to shake up a colleague who, I don't know exactly who was talking about it, that customers want it, and traders sell it. Well, I can't find free-range eggs everywhere. The second question concerns information that certain chains have announced that they will not take eggs from cage breeding. I am quite interested in information on how many eggs are sold in the Czech Republic in salary and how many eggs are used in various foods that we all buy, which, of course, do not already have such control. Sounds like pretty interesting information to me. [[Attention, time's up.]] So if you don't mind me asking for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u21	Mr. Secretary of State on the stand. You have two minutes, please. And he will prepare for Mr Petr Bendl's de facto Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u22	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna pick up the speaker here. I just want to say a few points about what the Czech Republic is proposing to improve the welfare of laying hens. We propose that cage breeding of laying hens be banned from 2030. At the same time, we propose that this be united, which means that some Member States prohibit and require producers to produce eggs only from laying hens from alternative breeding. Unilateral bans on cage breeding at national level, according to the decisions of individual Member States, are not desirable because they lead to unequal conditions in the single market. In order to ensure the competitiveness of egg producers in each Member State, the issue of cage breeding needs to be addressed in a harmonised manner throughout the European Union. Given that, in order to comply with the legislative requirements, breeders have spent considerable money, it will be necessary to compensate for any losses to breeders who, as a result of the prohibition of cages, will be forced to cease operations or write off outstanding investments. The Czech Republic calls on the European Commission to analyse the current situation and submit a legislative proposal prohibiting the production of eggs from enriched breeding in the EU and addressing the issue of imports of eggs from cage technologies from third countries in order to ensure the competitiveness of European egg producers, in which egg producers do not have to comply with the strict animal welfare requirements required in the EU. So much for an elevator from what we are presenting to the European Commission, and we ask that it do it in pan-European terms. Those three questions: I mean, it's at least 50-50 per cent of the industrial processing of eggs, 50 per cent of them are consumers. Some figures say 60 percent is industrial. That's one thing. The second thing about sales is a question on the chains, because at the moment when traders will only take eggs from aviary, free, etc., so of course breeders will gradually adapt. [[Time.]] And that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u23	But, of course, you can apply again. Now, Mr Petr Bendl to the de facto, this is the last de facto so far. So then Mr. František Vácha will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u24	Thank you for the floor. When I listen to this here, I agree that the Czech Republic should not remain alone in this activity, and therefore I will allow myself to present an accompanying resolution, which then - please the rapporteur, rapporteur Kováčik, will listen to me, through Mr President, that I will allow myself to present a accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to actively enforce the ban on cage breeding at European Union level and asks for information on this matter to the Chamber of Deputies by 31. 3. 2021'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u25	Now, the Minister for De facto. Now you even have the opportunity to go with priority rights because you are the only one with priority rights without limited time. Take your pick. [[No, I'll be very short.]] Okay, seriously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u26	I just want to say thank you to Petr Bendl for calling us to do what we've already done. So then I'll give him the declaration. The declaration's done. I made the elevator. Please challenge me to what I didn't do, not what I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u27	Mr František Vácha will now appear and prepare Mrs Margita Balaštíková. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we also have chickens at home. Sometimes they can be pretty bitches, but we can't even teach them not to eat strawberries to their wife. And every time they eat some strawberry, I'm afraid we'll have a chicken on cream. Anyway, I don't want to talk about chickens. I would like to comment on a number of amendments that have been read by the agricultural committee, which I have read on the agricultural committee and which have been adopted by the agricultural committee. And these relate to the dressage of newly born wild animal species in circuses. It's voting number five, A18, 19, 20, 21, etc. First of all, it must be said that this is not a ban on the appearance of animals in circuses, as is often misinterpreted. It is only that newly born chicks, in addition only species of wild animals, will no longer undergo circus dressage. It is also important to mention, which does not make a lot of people aware that all the animals that are currently in circuses will stay there and be able to continue to perform. However, this is linked to one amendment number A17 and with it A48, which is voted separately, with the fact that these amendments do not allow mobile equipment to be operated for the transport of wild animals with a delay until 2025. I leave it up to the Members to consider whether they will decide to support this by voting jointly by A17 and A48 because I am aware of the arguments that raising the costs of circuses in the management of wild animals may be a problem by not being able to transport them or by the risk of getting rid of them in any way. And I'm sure getting rid of them would be worse than letting them continue. So I'll leave it there for consideration. [[10.20 hours]] There were also concerns around the proposals that horses could not perform in circuses. However, horses are explicitly mentioned in Section 3d of the Act as farm animals, which means the horses will still be able to perform in circuses. After all, circuses, as we know them today, were created in 1768 to show off military horses. In general, it can therefore be stated that this is a very compromise proposal. In addition, the agricultural committee supported the proposal by Mr Kott M3, which shifts the effectiveness of the bans on new-born animals from 2022, and I think it is reasonable to support that. I still have a few words and notes on the genesis. Interestingly, the Ministry of Agriculture issued a press release on 19 October 2018 in which it announced that it intended to ban the dressage of all animals in circuses. At least that's how it was presented. The proposal was contained in this amendment to the Animal Protection Act, it went through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and the Ministry of Environment participated significantly in the preparation. Both ministries at that time very rarely agreed that dressage, appearance of animals, respectively. wild animal species in circuses are not right. What happened next, we don't know. In fact, a proposal came to the House which, in my opinion, lacks meaningful regulation and only proposes the issue of the Central Veterinary licences correct on the prescribed form, which contains only the name of the authorised persons and the operating rules. On this basis, circuses could not only exercise but also multiply. The central veterinary administration would then authorise regional veterinary administration to verify the data in the application and, if there was no contradiction, issue a licence, which means an increase in red tape and large financial costs, which is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum itself. I quote: "The actions mentioned are often time-consuming and mean considerable financial costs for regional veterinary administrations involving costly travel, the relevant share of wage costs and the conduct of veterinary surveillance operations. " Moreover, foreign licensing experience shows that the system is not well applied in practice and can be circumvented. So where did the dramatic turnout take place? The Ministry established an expert committee composed of five representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, one representative of the Central Commission for Animal Protection of the Ministry of Agriculture, two representatives of the State Veterinary Administration, the administrative office of the Ministry of Agriculture, one representative of the Association of Horse Breeders Association and one representative from the Ministry of Environment and three representatives of circuses. Thus, a total of nine representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, one of the association which does not concern our amendment at all, three representatives of circuses and one - now I mean no harm - poor person from the Ministry of the Environment. So I would personally imagine an expert committee a little more balanced, I would expect that there could be other experts on animal breeding, ethology, animal welfare and so on, e.g. even from the academic sphere. I guess that's where the big turn went. However, I would like to say that the amendments adopted by the Agricultural Committee on this subject are a very reasonable compromise between the ban on the appearance of all animals in circuses, as originally proposed by the Ministry, and the free licensing that contains the current text. I'd like to ask all of you for your support. Already today, dressage of newly born individuals of some selected species of animals in our Republic is prohibited by law, they are primates, fin-leggeds, cetaceans, rhinoceros, hippos and giraffes. There are 27 countries in Europe that somehow regulate the appearance of various types of animals in circuses. For the record, I don't count Italy. There's a total ban on animals in circuses in four of them. According to the available resources in 17 European countries, the practice proposed by these amendments, i.e. the exclusion of wild animal species, is similar - the figure differs a bit, whether anyone is talking about the European Union or the whole of Europe, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is needed there and so on. Lately, for interest, there has been a ban e.g. in Slovakia, 1 September 2019. As of 20 January 2020, the ban on the use of wild animal species in England applies; in the process of prohibition, Wales, where it will start to apply on 1 December, Scotland and Ireland have introduced a ban on the use of wild species already 2018, so that the whole of Britain will gradually have bans. The UK agreed to this because according to public opinion polls, up to 94.5 percent of the British company said it was in favour of a ban on appearances. [[against]] For example, in India - India, as early as 1998, banned dressage and display of five species of wild animal species: lions, tigers, leopards, bears and monkeys. Several polls have taken place on our territory, and it is important to look at the questions that were asked in those polls, because it is essential whether you are asking about the ban on all animals or the ban on wild animals. The Focus poll of 1,200 respondents over the age of 18 September 2018 shows that 70 percent of the population of the Czech Republic disagrees with the dressage of wild animal species in circuses. When they asked about the adoption of a law regulating the appearance of animals in circuses, 74 percent of respondents support this ban and out of them even 35 are positive towards a total ban on the appearance of all animals. STEM did research, where she asked about the ban on all animals, and there, of course, it is understandable, 62 percent opposed the ban on all animals. According to a survey by the Ministry of Environment of 2018, it was online on their website, it would prohibit the appearance of wild animal species 89 percent of respondents, together it was just over 9,000. We have several petitions, petitions here in the Chamber of Deputies. One for banning the appearance of wild species of wild animals, which has 27,000 respondents, and then there's a petition, but it's for preserving circuses with all the animals that have 26 908 signatures. Some cities have also done surveys, such as Brno, there is 79 percent against performing circuses with wild animal species, in Bruntal 76 percent. So in conclusion, in order not to delay, I would like to reiterate that this is not a ban on the appearance of animals in the circus or an immediate ban on the appearance of wild species, but a ban on the dressage of newly born individuals probably since 2022. So the present animals will be able to continue to perform in circuses, no one will spend them and eat them. So I firmly believe that you will consider the above arguments and support these very compromise proposals. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u29	And now, with a factual remark, Mr Josef Kott will speak and prepare Mrs Margit Balaštíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank Professor Vácha for his position, because I really think that what we originally agreed on there by his amendment, that is, coaching, that is, Amendment A17 and A48 would put into a very difficult and uncomfortable situation of the owner and circus operator. I hereby basically join his request to consider the support of this amendment, because I think that the amendments that are there protect the wild animals sufficiently for further dressage in our circuses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u31	Thank you for keeping time. I will also ask my colleague Balaštíková to be patient because the rapporteur has applied with priority right, so we will continue after his performance. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief, even very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole debate that goes on with the law is, apart from the exceptions, about topics that, say, are moving the media scene and the public, or parts of the public, especially at this time, until sometimes I would say very exposed. If, with a similar enthusiasm and effort like this, and I acknowledge positively, the Ministry of Agriculture, when it went through the Minister to the European Commission with the requirement of a pan-European ban on the rearing of hens, laying hens in cages, if we went with a similar effort to ban fur animals, we may not have had to address the question of compensation now, or not so acutely, because it would already be, or certainly, a European ban on the breeding of fur animals at this time. This is how we encouraged some other EU Member States, there is no ban, where our numbers of animals have gone into their business, and so you're just handing me at our expense. So I am positive about what is going on from the Ministry to the European Commission, and so I would like to propose an accompanying resolution in this context, which has two short points: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Supports the declaration submitted to the European Commission by the Ministry of Agriculture for a pan-European ban on laying hens in cages since 2030; 2. At the same time, it requests the submission of ongoing information on the process to the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u33	I thank the rapporteur and, therefore, now in the order of Mrs Margita Balaštíková, Mrs Krutáková will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u34	Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. So I don't want to have a professional discussion, I'd like to point out how a campaign was campaigned against the ban on cage breeding of laying hens. It wasn't a professional campaign, but it was a highly emotional campaign that, of course, is clouding public opinion and the Chamber of Deputies. I was offended by the categorically asked questions about the wording of conclusions that did not correspond to the facts, and this is called pure manipulation. All I can do is thank those who weren't afraid because the public opinion grew stronger and basically a couple who said "no, it's not like that" because the fear of being condemned by public opinion was so great with politicians that they joined the counterparty, even if they didn't think so internally. What bothered me was that the campaign was mainly used by students from philosophical faculties, not from agricultural schools, who taught how to treat animals properly, how to raise them properly, what to have a welfare, and these weren't there. So what was the campaign about? About the fact that philosophers, our farmers, want to tell us that we're doing this wrong? And that really bothered me. I don't know which one of you tried on those kids in that square. I do. Whenever I went through that square, I tried to explore their knowledge, the level of that knowledge. They knew nothing. Where did those numbers come from? Who wrote them on those billboards? What's it like? They just didn't know anything. The girls were smiling, pretty, and she said they felt sorry for the chickens. They simply knew nothing about the price of eggs, how chickens behave, what the needs of this species are. Even today, the discussion here is mostly not from experts, but from people who might want to join this stream emotionally. And that bothers me, because here it really is true that a hundred times a repeated lie becomes the truth. The original research did The Animal Picture in 2018, 2019 presented results. When I tried Mr. Voršilka from their own thesis, unfortunately, he didn't know anything about it either. And it remained with the repetition of a simple sentence: If it succeeded in other countries, we will succeed in doing so too. And that seemed a little small to me. I had to laugh at his expertise because I actually tried him from the thesis that he was promoting somewhere, but he pulled out of context because Mr. Ing. A Hrdina, even he wasn't a hero enough to deny the basics of farming in his work. That's what I think would make him completely impossible as an expert. So when I finished reading the sentences in their thesis, it didn't quite sound like we're being presented here. And this is where I pulled out the way we are in the cage. In the EU, 50.4 laying hens are kept in enriched cages, in the Czech Republic 76 percent. [[percentage]] So why did Animal Defenders, Animal Freedom, Animal Image, I don't know what everyone's name is, why didn't they take their diligence and want to ban it all over the EU, if they really want to get well-being in cages? I think we were drawn into some kind of model, and I'm wondering who's paying for all this because a lot of the articles weren't that they were publishing it, but it was a paid ad. Who paid for this, this nonsense? And it really bothered me that in the end, little children were locked up in that cage in the square, because some of the moms were really closing up with the little kids. That seemed really disgusting to me, and I don't think that's how it is. Of course, horrible footage of some of the farms has been published. I'm asking, if we wanted to end the abuse of these animals, why didn't those who filmed this footage immediately file a criminal report to reduce the suffering of the animals? Because it suited them to their PR! It was good for them to fight this thing. And my previous speaker, the rapporteur, Mr Kováčik, said here that other states would rejoice. In Poland, they are self-sufficient at 130 percent in egg production and are the largest exporters to the Czech Republic. And if anybody's laughing tonight, they're probably Polák, 'cause they're gonna keep bringing the eggs in. I was asked on the radio this morning if it was enough that the chains declared that they would no longer buy eggs in 2025. You know, you won't grieve with a promise. I can promise you, too, that I won't be doing this again in 2026. But if I don't have this raw material on the market, then I'm just gonna send you an apology note and tell you, I wanted to deliver it, but I don't have it, and in order for you to have the egg at all, I'm gonna have to give it to you from third countries, where animal behavior is really in appalling conditions. And one more thing that really, really amused me about it. Many of the young people who campaigned here were vegetarians. I'm not a vegetarian. As a farmer, I am well aware that the egg is the largest source of protein. It's a concentration of all minerals, trace elements. And by eating one egg, you're going to get a real energy bomb, because that egg is going to grow into a chicken. I like that the most campaign is run by those who don't want to eat meat. I'm not saying we should be carnivorous, but you've grown up to something. And in any case, if nothing, please, at a certain time of our age, and that's a period of child growth, and that's definitely what the doctors will confirm to me, they need animal protein, plant protein doesn't replace this, so please let's at least have a responsibility to those future generations, to those children, because they can't make this decision here. And indeed, Mr. Vácha said it, he himself lacked experts in these discussions. When I attended those tables, there were people who were miles away from agriculture. They were emotional performances of people who weren't about reality, they weren't about practice, they were just about feelings. And I want you to raise your hand for the truth today, for the law, not for emotions. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Margita Balaštíková. Mrs Jana Krutáková will now appear and Mr Pošvář will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you briefly and briefly to the opinion of the Mayors and Independents' Club. The Government's proposal for the Animal Protection Act, which we are currently discussing and which we are going to vote, has basically several issues that really move the public, as my previous speaker said. I just want to say three things. First of all, it's compensation for fur animals, which actually proposes compensation. The mayors and independents will support Mr Válek's proposal, which is based on real calculations of price calculations. Another area of this law, which governs, is the dressage of animals and the use of wild animal species in circuses. We are in favour of certain restrictions on animals, the use of animals in circuses. However, we should be careful not to cross a certain line, so that in a few months or years we will be dealing with issues such as training hunting, blind or other service dogs. Also, I can't forget about the most controversial point of this law - the ban on cage breeding laying hens. To be honest, although our club will support this proposal, we fear that the ban on cage breeding of laying hens only in the Czech Republic and in a few other chosen countries is certainly not enough. We are therefore in favour of addressing these conditions and this issue comprehensively throughout the EU. In conclusion, only the opinion of our club. The movement of the Mayors and the independent law as a whole will be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u37	Thank you, Mrs Jana Krutáková. Mr Jan Pošvář will now appear, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will be prepared one more time. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to the cage-breeds. When we prepared this proposal for the abolition of cages, we heard the same arguments as those put forward in plenary, we heard them at seminars, during negotiations with other Members, with experts. We have carefully evaluated these arguments, and we have collected all the data we need, and we have honestly compared them all. So we're coming out of about 27 scientific works, and these are jobs that aren't from any of the laboratories in the universe, but they're directly from the operations, they're questionnaire studies directly from the farmers, from the people who are doing it specifically, the activity. We even have two economic analyses, we have time analysis, we have spatial analysis. In fact, you've heard everything from me in the defence of my second reading amendment, so I'm not going to repeat it here. I have this defense and other materials available in writing, you can even borrow them from me, or I can even print them out for you and you can study it. So you can see for yourself that the abolition of cage breeding is the right thing to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u39	Thank you, Mr. Pošvář. I now have a factual comment by Mrs Balaštíková, who is also registered. Okay. It's real now, isn't it? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u40	Every analysis needs to be read. It needs to be oriented. You know, Mr. Colleague, if someone gives me two cosmic research analyses to assess, I can only make an emotional decision as a total unprofessional who only knows the Polárka, the Big and the Small Car. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, then, Mrs Balaštíková has signed up for a proper performance. [[He's not interested.]] A colleague, no more? Well, thank you. Now, then, my colleague Jan Čižinský, will prepare a colleague Válek. [[The Chizhinski MP is not present.]] A colleague of Čižinský is absent, so he's failing his application. Now, Mr Válek, then Mr Jan Zahradník. Mr. Ambassador, take it easy, take it easy. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u42	I am very sorry, Mr President, I have seen a colleague of Čižinský. I hope we don't let anyone get emotional anymore. The subject is complicated and complicated, but I would like to say the opinion of the TOP 09 club and my opinion. I would like to draw attention to one thing. Any data, it doesn't matter whether you're an expert in the field or not, is evaluated by scientific tools. If you are engaged in science, if you are engaged in research, if you are a university teacher, if you are an academic worker, you know these tools very well. And only with forgiveness can an ignorant amateur criticize that you're not an expert in that area. Just statistical analysis, predictive values, data quantification, metaanalysis are tools that are not given to one field, but they are general mathematical, analytical and statistical tools. I do not need to know the specific issue in order to assess whether the validity of the published data, their accuracy, accuracy and truthfulness are sufficiently verifiable by these methods. After all, many of us, Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, are living proof of this. None of us sitting here are epidemiologists, none of us are virologists, and yet many of us, including myself, and through Mr. President I dare appoint a colleague Professor Špičák, who sits here, discussing covido, simply because we know how to evaluate the published data analytically and we know how to proceed to scientific work. And I believe that each of us who can do this or who has arranged for someone among his assistants who is able to assess the data in this way has also evaluated some of the points that are conflicting and controversial and where there are different opinions. And so there are different opinions on some of these points, such as cage breeding, as well as various opinions in professional literature, for example, to wear masks. And it's pointless, it's pointless to put the situation at bay because the question is exactly where the truth is. For me, Club TOP 09 will support the ban on cage breeding. The reasons are pragmatic and double. The first reason is that developments are heading in this direction, and I am pleased that the Minister has confirmed that the position of the Ministry of Agriculture is to promote this development in the European Union as a systemic solution. And I'll be happy if the Czech Republic is one of the countries that starts it. This also has to do with the fact that not only supermarkets but also some egg users - and I dare to name Nestlé, I dare to name Marlenka in the Czech Republic - have signed this challenge and do not use eggs other than free-breed eggs. And, yes, Marlenka is a ridiculous company, but those companies will grow. Naughty ridiculous company isn't. Nestlé is a big manufacturer, and there are more of those big manufacturers. I would like to say that the second reason - and it was more important for me, I tried with colleagues from the vet, from Brno, because there is a vet there, with colleagues dealing with nutrition, from the Department of Nutrition, to find out if there is any published file on how it differs from the nutritional side, and I am very glad that it has been said here, the composition of eggs, from various types of breeding, and I was surprised that such data are. The question is, we can talk about it again, how far the data is valid. The data convinced me that free-breed eggs are better, they are better nutritionally, they contain lower cholesterol levels. That means those substances that we do not want to get into the human body contain less, on the contrary, those that we want contain more. And that was the second reason he convinced me. [[10.50 hours]] As far as animal and circus abuse. So I think it sounds to me that abuse is a subject for many of us. I don't think abuse is a topic for any of us, but it's a huge topic for us to defend abuse. I think and I sincerely believe that every one of us sitting here knows and perceives that it is essential to prevent the abuse of defenseless, i.e. children, women and in general those who are homo sapiens. On the other hand, when I began to look into this and I prepared myself for individual meetings of the agricultural committee - and I would like to thank the agricultural committee very much for the discussion that was rational, serious, decent and unconflict - it was a huge surprise for me that in very renowned journals with a high impact factor - and I repeat again, everyone who publishes, who is involved in research, so lives the mantra of the impact factor, lives the Hirschův index Mantra and let's say some such parametricization, so that work on the topic has been repeatedly published, that the best way to capture abuse in the family, child abuse is in time to capture animal abuse. There are even magazines dealing with these influences or the relationship between these two states. I must say that I was really fascinated by an article from the United States, which I consider to be a very pragmatic country in the approach to some legislation, and in this case certainly, which he said - and was not one - that the easiest way to do the prevention of serious crimes in time is to capture any way of animal abuse, because in this way, abuse was captured very quickly at that stage, which bothers me much more. This also applies in a way to circuses, because respect for life, respect for living creatures is essential. I don't think we need to take any radical measures. I think that the compromise that has been made here by both colleagues is very reasonable. It's kind of a step on the road. I would venture to say with a bit of exaggeration - because I found an article in the paper, when I think in the first Republic he was performing in the Buffalo Bill circus in Ostrava, there was a very turbulent discussion at the Parliament of Czechoslovakia, if that is correct, it is not right, and I think that the city councillor of Prague decided that he will not perform in Prague. So I suppose it was a subject anyway, I think if he had come with a similar attraction today, no one would have thought to allow that. It's simply development, it's simply shift, it's progress in the perception of nature, the perception of living creatures. I don't think you need to put emotions into it. I am glad to get to the law where we all vote according to our best knowledge and conscience, where we are not bound by some brutal party discipline, but we are bound only by what our opinion is and what our position is. The TOP 09 will support these amendments I was talking about. The reasons are very pragmatic. They are based on a careful and honest study of literature and are based on the opinion of experts in our ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u43	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek for his speech. We now have the factual comment of Mr Holomčík, prepared by colleague Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to bring to the right of one untruth that has been said here. This concerns the fact that there has been a pan-European campaign for quite a long time, called the End of Cage Age. Most of those organizations that promote the end of cage breeding in our country are part of it, so it is not true that the same people who want it in our country do not want it at European level. If what I said here falls on fertile soil, that we should do something together in this Europe-wide initiative for the abolition of cages, it is these organisations and this part of civil society that can be a very valuable partner for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Zahradník will now appear, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u46	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak before the vote in the third reading on my two amendments, which are included as I1 and I2, and we will vote on them under the procedure proposed under number 23. I will admit that I have actually performed on these proposals at second reading, but since I have noted that the Agricultural Committee has adopted a negative opinion on them, I would just like to briefly justify their submission. The reasons for submitting these proposals are factual, not political, they are far from the proposals that we have been debating all along. The first proposal, the I1, concerns § 7a para. 2 and 3 laying down the obligations of associations of breeders, business legal persons engaged in animal production, provided that such persons donate or sell puppies up to the age of six months. They are then obliged to keep a record of the puppies sold and donated and to keep them for three years - that is point (a), (b) to provide the new breeder with information on the feeding method; and (c) to issue a copy of the register certificate to the new breeder when transferring each puppy, indicating a specific transferred puppy or other document. Paragraph 3 then provides that points (a) and (c) of paragraph 2 shall not apply to the operator of the shelter. I don't think it is said anywhere that the shelter operator could not be exposed to a situation where he would pass on, maybe even sell or donate puppies, a pregnant bitch or bitch could be brought to the shelter with litter of puppies, and then the operator would have to deal with the puppies. So I don't know why he shouldn't keep the register, keep it, and why he shouldn't hand over some evidence to the new purchaser of the puppy that the puppy was properly handled. If it didn't happen, shelters could become - I don't want to suspect anyone, but it could be - a source of sales for multiplication plants. It could be treated like this. Therefore, in my proposal, I propose that paragraph 3 be deleted, i.e. that the provisions of Section 2 (2) apply to the shelter operators as well. (a) and (c). Secondly, the I2 proposal concerns a situation where someone passes on a stray or abandoned animal, or has them in his shelter, or who has found them, must take care of the person and be responsible for making the animal healthy and in good condition. The notification of the place of finding to the municipality or the transfer of the stray or abandoned animal to the shelter shall also be considered as fulfilling this obligation. I'm suggesting here that the other option, the transfer to the shelter, be made aware of the village, so that the village must also be informed of this journey of loading with the stray abandoned animal. This is because the Civil Code sets out how the found thing is handled, or provides that the municipality decides how the item will be stored, or how it will be dealt with afterwards. Therefore, at the end of this paragraph, I suggested adding the words "conscious of the village" so that the transfer of the abandoned animal to the shelter would be conscious of the village. As I said before, there is a negative opinion of the committee. I don't know about the Minister, but I took the liberty of explaining that this is really not a controversial matter. I hope that these proposals could be supported, and I am also asking you to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u47	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Mr Václav Klaus will now appear, and a colleague Jan Čižinský, who is the last to be enrolled in this debate at third reading, will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to introduce you to our position on this law, which in a way moves the emotions of a part of the public. I would appeal to you because we are the sněmovna, after all, to behave rationally and not as children. All of us sitting here are certainly opposed to abuse, especially the family of homo sapiens, but possibly animals, no one is questioning that. But the result of our actions should be some good, not marketing tricks. If we ban the breeding of cage hens in the Czech Republic, nothing will happen except that our supermarkets will be filled with cage eggs from Lithuania and other countries where cage breeding is - from Poland - where it is allowed. Nothing else will happen and we will just eliminate Czech poultrymen. There is no way that we can support this and we don't want it either. Regardless of the fact that if the eggs - the second thing is that they're cheating hugely, because the egg doesn't really show where it's from, where it was conceived. That's what I've been talking about. After all, you can't even see that in us MPs where we were conceived. But the scams that are happening are clear, because then it's also a question of how many residents want to buy an egg for 15 crowns, how much for 17 and so on. I prefer free-breed eggs myself. If we're gonna campaign for this, I'm very up for it. And the more people do that, the more companies, the more this thing improves. But I refuse to dispose of Czech poultrymen's activists and support cage breeding from Latvia, Poland and other countries. Similarly emotionally, when we approach it - I've already said to you here, I think, that my mother-in-law and daughter have free chickens, little ones, had 45 chickens. Well, about a week ago, it happened, there's automatic opening and closing, and the kuna, even though she's a night animal, was cleverly waiting for the morning dawn to open up the breeding, and she bit off 25 chickens' heads and didn't take any of them away. That's also a very negative thing in free breeding. And maybe it hit my daughter very hard, and I'm sure we could raise huge emotions about how bad it is and how bad animals are, and we need to destroy them in some way to protect the chickens and all that. And I'm sure there'd be enough activists to jump in here in the square to save a chicken from such an evil animal that doesn't even eat it, and just out of some sort of hunting instinct, it's gonna bite someone's head off. It's a very similar thing. But to get back to the point. Indeed, we cannot allow ourselves to eliminate Czech poultrymen and to have full supermarkets of foreign cage eggs. That doesn't make any sense, and I don't think any of you can support it without being ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u49	I thank Mr Klaus. Mr Jan Čižinský, now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u50	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on colleagues who have spoken and supported the gradual end of dressage in circuses. We would just like to point out that there is a difference between dressage and exercise, where exercise is something that is for the animal - and it is of course only wild species - while dressage is something where the animal is supposed to do something that is not his own. So I would like to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u51	Thank you. Now, President Marian Jurečka, at this moment, the last one entered into the debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, thank you for the debate, especially what has been said here from the Minister's mouth. From the point of view of the importance of this action at European level, what he said here in relation to negotiations at the EU Agriculture Council is what he said. I can clearly declare during KDU-ČSL that we are aware that the situation in terms of welfare and well-being of animals is something that we should try to improve technology in order to improve the environment for animal life, as well as for the production of economics. On the other hand, it is very important for us that these measures be taken really hand in hand with the situation in other states on the common European market. Because taking a step, which will mean that the situation will improve in some breeds in the Czech Republic, many of these farms will end completely, and then eggs will be imported from other parts of the European Union not only, but we need to realise that we have agreements between the European Union and other countries, such as Ukraine and the like, and they will be caged eggs, so this is not the solution we want. So my colleague Michaela Šojdrová and I started negotiations with our partners in the European People's Party at the beginning of July, which is the strongest faction of the European Parliament, so that we can accept that the entire EU European market will either be able to have a uniform procedure in 2027 or 2030 in order to ban the production of caged eggs. That's what I think is essential, important. That is why we are ready today to vote in favour of those proposals that concern the prohibition from 2027 or 2030. Even at European level, there is a petition from EU citizens today. It's the third most numerous petition, over a million people's signatures. That, too, must be perceived as a clear message to the public. But what is needed - and this, of course, is the role of the Minister, the Government, and then the European Commission - is to clearly set aside support in budget planning, whether European or national, for those breeders to be able to cope with this transition. It's not about the biggest ones, it's about you, but it's about a lot of those middle people who are just not so good at the situation, and they're going to need help that's clearly defined, and it's not going to be a question that then the money doesn't get there in any particular measure, a particular challenge, but just so we know that if we change the rules of the game, we can also support them in this. So many opinions, I don't want to prolong the debate anymore. Thanks for the support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u53	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. I now see President Faltýnek and President Pekarová Adamová's priority right. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u54	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. As chairman of the agricultural committee, I deliberately did not take part in the discussion, because we have spent many hours on the agricultural committee of this material and the result is in the materials as we have adopted various opinions and recommendations agree and disagree. Basically, I would repeat what former Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka said here. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Agriculture, Mirka Toman, for having found the courage to be the only Minister of Agriculture from the Member States of the European Union and coming to the Council of Ministers with a proposal to ban cages throughout Europe. We are moving on the single market of the European Union. Of course, our farmers and breeders trade within the single market and it would be wrong for us to set up a situation here where they start to come here after the ban in the Czech Republic, as well as in Austria and Germany, production, in particular production, eggs and egg raw materials from countries where it is not addressed, which is Spain, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and so on and so on. In this context, I have a request for all of you to accept my request for a meeting of our club after approval of the procedure for 15 minutes. Fifteen minutes is enough to discuss how we will vote on these controversial amendments, and our colleagues will meet with the President of the Chamber of Deputies after voting for the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u55	I thank Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. Now, Mrs Adamová Pekarová. Calm down, please. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to prolong this debate any longer, but I wanted to support the amendment by my colleague Vácha, who was also supported by the Guaranteed Agricultural Committee, and therefore has a very good chance of getting our overall support and passing through here today. This is the proposal to end the dressage of wild animals in the circus. I know it gives rise to great emotions and that it may be too extensive for some to forbid something like this, but I think we can see that now the use of a number of wild animal species in the Czech Republic is forbidden to display pieces in circuses, and we now have the chance to end the use of other wild animals to entertain circus visitors. [[11.10 hours]] I think we can all agree that the lion wasn't born to ride all over the country or even further in the cage and there in the mansions he was showing off numbers and pieces to jump through bars. A bear in a skirt on a motorcycle is probably also not a natural environment for this species. And a whole bunch of others. That is why I think that we should move on and join those countries that are already applying this ban. Moreover, 74 percent of Čech support the adoption of this proposal also in our country and the proposal, as it is presented, is a compromise that takes into account both the interests of circus operators and, of course, the interest of animal protection. The ban should only apply to newly born animals, so investment in existing animals will not be thwarted. The proposal also does not limit the further use of domesticated animals, I stress this, such as dogs, horses or others. That is why I think that we should support - as well as the ban on cage breeding - many have fallen on this particular proposal, and I am asking you to do so. I think that we are finding, as has been seen in the Committee on Agriculture, a consensus across the political spectrum, not just one party or only one club, and I think that this cooperation has been very good for us in this case. So I'm begging you, we would have made it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u57	Thank you. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek's point of fact. If no one continues to report, I will end the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to ask you, the wild animals, we mean what? Because if we catch a wild horse, can we use it or can't we use it? I would understand if it were animals that are captured from the wild, but if it's an animal that has lived in the possession of humans in many generations, it's something else. I understand it's the protection of an animal from the wild. You know, I listened to the debate. I have to say, I'm a little disappointed. There aren't many of us veterinarians in Parliament, it's me and my colleague Senator Rabas from the Zoo in Dvoře Králové. I, too, have a confirmation from the Central Animal Protection Commission that I can assess the protection whether an animal is being abused or not. I studied it, I did a dissertation to protect animals from abuse, so I think I have something to say about it. But I'm a little disappointed that, as has already been said here, there is more emotion than a rat. I think I also give examples and compare people and animals, well, of course cage breeding - remember the cage beds. I don't know why domesticated animals should have conditions other than those that are called. wild. Does a dog suffer less than a tiger? I don't really understand. So that we don't get into a situation where we ban the legal possession of dogs on a leash, castration, etc. I'm pointing this out for the reason that emotions actually often sound here rather than a ratio. Of course, bans will also occur by increasing standards, and that is okay. Some situations come to an end by increasing the demands for breeding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u59	Thank you. The time for a factual remark is up. I'm asking you once again if anyone is reporting for the debate. I see no one, and the debate is over. So we can move forward. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary, are you interested? Mr. rapporteur, the final word? Not interested. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, the agricultural committee, to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments, before the vote, but before the vote, after the approval of the voting procedure, I respect the request for a 15-minute break for an ANO club meeting. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the proposal for a voting procedure on the submitted topic, as discussed and proposed in its 170th resolution by the Agricultural Committee of 10 June 2020, i.e. the Guarantee Committee. The Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies as a guarantee committee after discussing the bill, after second reading - and now I will ask nicely, because you all have the procedure in front of you, if I have to read the procedure in detail, I will be happy to do so, if anyone so requests, or if we take it as we all have it in front of us, and therefore we all know it. Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u61	You have the farm committee resolution number 178. Does anyone want to read the procedure, or are we going to follow it? Okay. If he doesn't want to, then we can... I'll ask if there are any changes in the procedure. The procedure will be followed by your motion for an accompanying resolution, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u62	We have two proposals for an accompanying resolution. One is from a colleague of Petr Bendl and the other is from me, but this is voted after possible approval of the law. [[President: Yes, after approval, if any...]] And we have one draft of legislative technical amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u63	I'm counting on it, of course. That's legal. I see a colleague of Holomčík reporting for the procedure. To change the procedure. Okay, colleague Holomčík, colleague Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose an updated change in the procedure where we exchange points 6 and 7 for each other, so that the first vote is on setting the amount of compensation for fur farms, actually in line with the Ministry of Agriculture's statement, and then we vote on the compensation being paid. It is for the purpose of ensuring that they are actually paid. So I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u65	Change of order, i.e. 6 - 7. Mr. Colleague War for the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u66	Thank you. I have a proposal for two minor changes to consider, and I ask for their support. This concerns the point where we are actually voting on two different issues, namely the implementation of the European Union regulation and the package of amendments or the package of compensation for the parties to fur farms. Both are Mrs Balaštíková's points. So I propose, and I ask for the support to separate this vote, to vote on point A1 - the implementation of the European Union regulation - separately, and then the package A45 to A53 separately, about the fur farms. And at the same time, I have a second suggestion. The amendments on compensation for fur farms are actually from three Members. One is from my colleague Pošvář, one from Mrs Balaštíková, one from me, and gradually they are increasing amounts. I think it would be logical for us to start voting on the lowest amount and then vote on the highest. However, we would then have to do that by putting forward the amendment of Mr Pošvář and my colleague, i.e. A1, A2 and A3 in front of those points by Mrs Balaštíková. Again, it's very simple, it's a technical change, so that the logic of voting is from the lowest to the highest compensation. Thank you for considering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u67	Ascend in ascending order, I understand that, and therefore separate the vote on the European directive with my colleague Balaštíková. Yes? [[Member of the War agrees and thanks.]] The rapporteur - what does he say?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u68	In case of a simpler procedure I am friendly myself and I am prepared to accept similar proposals. This procedure is, first, very complex, and second, it is discussed in the Committee on Agriculture. I voted in favour of this procedure in the Committee on Agriculture. I therefore do not accept the two proposals, namely Mr Holomčík and Mr Válek, and it is therefore necessary to put the change to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u69	Okay. In that case, we must let the House decide what it will accept. First of all, what my colleague Holomčík said, confusion of 6 and 7. I'll check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The change to the procedure proposed by Mr Holomčík will be decided by the 37 vote that I started, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 37, from 94 in favour of 35, against 23. The motion was denied. Now the proposal, because they're separated, separate A1, if I understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u70	Mr Válek has tabled two proposals, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u71	Yes. So that's the European directive for a separate vote, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u72	Yes. And an ascending vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u73	And then ascending. So we will now vote separately on the European directive, on the proposal of my colleague Balaštíková. I have begun voting number 38 and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 38 of the present 100 for 31 Members, against no one. The motion was not accepted. And now, therefore, the vote on the amount, i.e. the upward vote. We will decide in the vote number 39, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 39, 101 Members present, for 33, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the original procedure proposed by the agricultural committee, in the vote number 40 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 40, present 102, for 100, against 1. The motion was accepted. We've approved the procedure. At the request of the YES movement, I am interrupting negotiations until 11.40 when we will begin voting under the approved procedure. It is now a break for the club of the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations, by voting directly on the amendments. The rapporteur is in his place. Please settle down and we'll begin with the approved voting procedure. I therefore repeat that I will always ask the rapporteur to give the opinion of the agricultural committee and, of course, I will ask the Minister to give his opinion on the various amendments. It's quiet enough. I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes on the 16th, this is today, morning for work reasons, tomorrow morning for work reasons, i.e. the afternoon of the interpelations would be, and on the 18th full day for work reasons. That's quite an apology. And now, Mr rapporteur, you have the floor. First draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, according to the approved procedure, we should now vote first on the proposals for legislative technical amendments. Since the legislative technical regulation for points P1 to P11 has been tabled, which is Mr Kolovratník, and it is a vote of thirty-four, it is therefore a vote under procedure 34, if you would like to know what it is about. So now we should vote on legislative technical adjustments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u76	Okay. Before we decide in vote number forty-one, do you recommend legislative technical amendments? [[Rapporteur: I recommend it.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 41. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 41 out of 102 present 100 pros, against no one. The proposal for legislative technical adaptations has been approved. And we're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u77	In voting number two under the approved procedure, we will vote on the amendment by Mr Josef Kott under number M15. It concerns the extension of the possibility of slaughtering injured animals on the farm. The Agricultural Committee, the Guarantee Committee, recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u78	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 42. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 42 of the present 102 for 74, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u79	The third procedure vote is the amendment by Josef Kott M11 and concerns an exception to the prohibition of binding housing for certain establishments, such as the national stallion Kladruba nad Labem, is a UNESCO monument. The Agricultural Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u80	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 43. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 43, 101 is present, for 74, against 19. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u81	The fourth vote is the amendments of the Agricultural Committee A17 and A48 en bloc by one vote. This is the abolition of the exemption for circuses to keep wild species in the means of transport, so it is about coaching. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u82	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 43 and I'm asking who's in favour. [[Reactions in the O.R. The number of votes 43 appeared repeatedly on the board.]] I mean, 44. Sorry. I'm sorry. I declare vote number 43 misguided. We'll vote again. It's stuck. Well, thank you. So we are going to vote again on the 44 vote that I have launched, and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 44, 102 present, 8 pros, versus 3. Proposition... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I say it as the monitor shows it to me. I understand there's a discrepancy with the vote number. But it's what's on the record. The electronic record will be vote number 44. Now another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u83	Now it's draft number five. These are the amendments of the Agricultural Committee A18, A19, A20, A21, A28, A34, A36, A55, A56 en bloc by one vote. This concerns the prohibition of dressage, multiplication and introduction into the Czech Republic of animals of wild species. The Committee has not adopted an opinion here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u84	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 45 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 45, there are 101 Members present, for 66, against 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u85	Next draft, next vote by procedure, number six. These are the remaining amendments of the Agricultural Committee, i.e. A1 to A6, A8 to A16, A22 to A27, A29 to A33, A35, A37 to A47, A49 to A50, A52 to A54 en bloc by one vote. This is a modification of breeding plants, shelters, compensation for cancelled breeding of fur animals and other measures to prevent the abuse of animals. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u86	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 46. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 46, 102 present, 75 pros, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u87	Thank you. We are in the seventh vote of Mr Jan Pošvář, House document 5515, reducing the compensatory allowance for fur farms to CZK 75 million, complements the adopted amendment that we adopted in the previous vote. Thus, it is only possible to vote in the event of the adoption of the A47 proposal, which it follows. If this proposal is adopted, the O1, O2 and O3 proposal will become unvoting. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u88	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 47. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 47, 103 Members present, for 84, against 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u89	In the eighth vote under the approved procedure, we will vote on the amendment by Mr Jan Pošvář B1 to B10 en bloc by one vote. This is a ban on caged laying hens since 2027. The Agricultural Committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u90	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started a 48-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 48 from the present 101 Member for 53, against 21. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u91	Now, according to the procedure, we are to vote on the ninth vote, Mr František Elfmark's amendments C1 through C4. However, C1 is unvoting because A4 has been accepted. C2 is unvoteable because it was accepted by A26. And C3 and C4 are voteable only if there is a C1 vote that cannot be voted. So Mr František Elfmark - C1 through C4 - is unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u92	We can therefore proceed to the next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u93	Voting number ten according to procedure - amendments by Mr David Pražák D1, D2, D4 and D5 en bloc by one vote. The minimum amount of the penalty for animal cruelty shall be fixed. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u94	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote on order number 49 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 49 102 present, for 90, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u95	It is the eleventh vote according to the draft procedure - Mr David Pražák D3's amendment specifies the obligations of the breeder to keep records in the case of breeding animals and apes. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u96	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've begun the vote on order number 50. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 50 of the present 102 101 pro, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u97	We would have been with Jana Krutáková E1, but it is unvoting because A4 was accepted. So we are going to the 13th vote of Jana Krutáková E2 and E3 en bloc with one vote. The breeder of animals whose escape would constitute a threat must inform the municipality of his intention. The Agricultural Committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u98	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started a number 51 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 51, 101 Members are present, for 11, against 46. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u99	And now we would have been with my colleague Josef Kott M1 when he wanted to adjust the binding housing, but he is unvoting because he was accepted by A14. So we are going to the 15th vote of Mr Kott M2 to M10, M12 to M14 and M16 to M20 en bloc by one vote. These are legislative technical amendments that respond to the adoption of some amendments under letter A - but beware, it is here... good, all right. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u100	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote with order number 52. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 52 102 present, for 87, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u101	Since the M5 proposal was adopted in Mr Kott's previous vote, the unvoted amendments by Mr František Vácha F1 and F2 are unvoted. So we come to the 17th vote of Mrs Dana Balcar G1 through G10 en bloc with one vote. No caged hens since 2025. This is voteable because B1 to B10 has not been accepted. The agricultural committee suggests... [[Dissenting voices from the Pirates' desks.]] Excuse me, one more time? Sorry, I'm sorry. Yes, mea maxima culpa. It's unvoteable because B1 to B10 was accepted. That's right. Thank you for understanding. And that makes P1 to P11 unvoteable. We're under procedure in the 18th vote. Ms. Mrs. Dana Balcarová G11 - entry of police into the residence in case of suspected tortured animal. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u102	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I have begun the vote on order number 53. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 53 101 present, for 40, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u103	We would have been in the 19th vote of Mrs Jarošová H1 - a ban on freezing, but since A6 was adopted, the proposal is unvoted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u104	Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u105	We are at the 20th vote of Ms Monika Jarošová H2 and H4 to H7 en bloc with one vote. This is about removing cats and dogs from the group of experimental animals. The Agricultural Committee has not adopted an opinion. The proposal is highly controversial, but that's my personal point, so it's like you don't hear it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u106	Mr. Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've begun the vote in order number 54, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 54 present 101, for 11, against 25. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u107	We are on proposal 21, according to the procedure, it is an amendment by Mrs Monika Jarošová H8 - a ban on the joint breeding of rodents of both sexes in pet stores. The Agricultural Committee has taken a positive position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u108	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've begun the vote on order number 55. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[There's noise in the hall!]] In the voting order number 55 102 present, for 69, against no one. The motion was accepted. Calm down, please. My colleague's about to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u109	I'm so sorry. I would return to the 48-order vote when I'm in favour of high school, and I wanted to vote against it. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u110	My colleague, I understand. I take it it's immediate. So you don't agree with the electronic record of your vote? [[Yes.]] Okay. I'm gonna have to vote on order number 48. Remind me again what was going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u111	This is a vote of serial number eight according to the approved procedure on the proposal of Mr Pošvář on the prohibition of cage breeding until 2027.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u112	So it is this amendment. Vice-President Pikal shall report with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u113	Thank you for the floor. I would like to point out that the objection to the vote or procedure is to be made immediately, and in this case I have considerable doubts that this is the case. I am otherwise always for each immediate objection, but in this case it is simply not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u114	Vice-President, I understand. I have dealt with this problem several times, and since I never vote to re-vote, given how I was instructed by the Constitutional Court when I represented the Chamber of Deputies before the Constitutional Court, even if I order the re-vote, I personally will not vote in favour. But the entry isn't immediately... and we've immediately explained it several times. So the only thing we can talk about is the procedural battle, but the easiest thing is to repeat the vote. I'm just saying that, or we're stuck here in the middle of a vote. But I respect priority rights. First, Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u115	Thank you for the floor. My previous speaker said he had great doubts about whether it was immediate. I don't have any doubts, it wasn't immediate. Let's see how it is. One controversial vote was the vote on the prohibition of chickens farming. We're all watching this. We've all been getting e-mails for weeks and months, for, or mostly for, sometimes against. I noticed that one vote of the YES movement was in favour. One! Such a key vote is to be taken immediately. It's not like he's wondering if I'm gonna do it or not. We're at 50, not 48 votes. Standard behavior is that at that point the club can check the vote. And it is immediate, Mr President. If the Member or the chairman of his club so requests, he breaks down, gets high, checks out, and it can happen. I'm being helpful myself. There are some gentlemen's agreements. First of all, the MP said it all wrong. I don't care how you wanted to vote. You're really unlucky, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Either you voted against, and you did, or you voted differently than you wanted, but that's just too bad! That's no reason to repeat that I voted differently than I wanted. As it sounds, I voted differently than I wanted. Well, it can happen. To each and every one of us. Because there's a lot of votes. But it's not at all a wording to make it possible to vote on it at all. And it's clear. I understand that if you came and said, I'm sorry, I'm not questioning the vote, I voted differently than I wanted. Put no on the record, and let's move on. Or is it your goal to make the vote turn out differently? But that is a completely different case, and this must be dealt with immediately. And that's not what happened in this case. So it is not the easiest solution, Mr Vice-President, to repeat the vote. It's not! In this case, at this point, I think it is not possible to allow a vote. If you admit him and want to vote, I'll suggest to the House that she consent to your procedure. It's nothing personal, but it's not the way to do it! This is not a technique, it is not a meaningless technical change, it is an essential part of this law, which is being debated for a long time. Thank you for understanding. And if a Member, an honored colleague, for example, did not demand a re-vote, he had stated on the record what he said, it would be clear in the record that he was wrong, that will happen to each of us. The result of the vote will not change. Not a single vote would change the outcome of the vote because it was two. So we know. But when I challenged the vote this morning, virtually. When I asked my colleagues, in the second vote, 26 Members suddenly changed their minds. Not that one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will once again have Mr Kytýr express myself, and then I am registering the application. I cannot give those who do not have the right to vote unless they also report with their vote. In that case, I will give the floor to the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club and then report to the debate. I'm gonna take my turn in meeting management. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u117	I truly apologize to the House of Honor. And it really was not our intention to question the club's vote in any way. I checked back repeatedly and found that I actually voted against my will. For these reasons, I want to call into question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u118	Mr. KDU-ČSL Club Chairman now. [[Noise, commotion in the hall.]] Please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u119	Mr. Colleague, through -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u120	Not yet! Please calm down! Not yet, Prime Minister! I ask the House for peace! Take your seats! We are having a dispute, and I would like us to lead it in an environment that is consistent with the seriousness of the situation. I'll give you my word when it's quiet enough. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u121	My colleague, if you voted differently, you can say on the microphone that you wanted to vote in some way, and only to comment on the tape. The ratio in the vote was 51 to 53. If you wanted to question immediately, you took a break, you said, you explained it. The time that was here was more about who you were gonna break to question your vote. Because, indeed, the time to ban cage metals is one of the key votes. If you say you're questioning, but we're moving on, I'll take it, it's fair. If you want to repeat the vote, it is clear that the vote has taken place in order to change the following vote. Because the next vote that followed was linked exactly to this point. In practice, this means that at that moment we return to that point by voting procedure and vote everything again, or most of those points, because some of them were bound to this vote. If you just say you were wrong about your vote, we're moving on, I'll take it. If not, it's an attempt to manipulate this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u122	Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. I beg you to say a word. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have this dispute. I remember, and I must say that it was really very unpleasant for me when I defended the amendment to the Commercial Code before the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, when the then government coalition applied the principle of repeating the vote after 14 days. It was very sad, and those who remember it would tell me that we never did it again. But never, ever have we ever applied that if it is not immediately between the first and second votes, virtually. immediately after that, we would not allow the vote to be called into question. I understand that some colleagues do not fully know the Rules of Procedure and their comments do not comply with the Rules of Procedure Act, which means that they require a repeat vote on the ground that the electronic minutes of the outcome of the vote do not correspond to their will and vote. And I'm now, you know, we've been arguing here about whether it's forty-three or forty-four already, because I've really blocked the voting device, which is why I said 43rd was confusing. So I can't rule out a mistake, and yet I said I wouldn't vote for it to repeat the vote, because I just never vote for it. I enjoyed it, it made me very uncomfortable for all my colleagues, whether they voted in favour or against it at the time. But to challenge each other here, that the club president should block it as for the vote-check - yes, but we don't have that habit yet. I'm just saying it straight, 'cause I could repeat the words. Some of you who have now called on fellow Kytýr to say otherwise when you cared about repeating the vote. Please, I think that if it is the will to vote on this very controversial law as the result of the vote was, then we will just repeat the result of the vote and it will be the simplest, purest, and it will not cause unnecessary emotions between clubs. [[12.10 hours]] I therefore ask that we respect that the e-booking of the result of the vote is not immediately available after the vote. We'd really always have to keep the break between one and the other voting to check out the runaways. As you wish, but I'm in favour of dealing with this without emotion by allowing the procedure to be repeated. Nothing will happen, just maybe in the future, we can clarify our own rules that we follow if we want to follow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u124	Thank you. President Kalousek, then President Faltýnek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u125	Thank you for the floor. I, too, have no emotions through the President, Vice-President Filip. I understand that the question of time that has passed is debatable, and I guess there really is no choice but to vote. But the questioning of the vote is in the Rules of Procedure for one reason only - when we have reasonable doubts that there has been an error in the voting system when we know that we have voted yes and we have something other than yes at the junk, or when we know that we have voted no and something else appears at the junk. The questioning of the vote is an insurance policy against technology that cannot be perfect. Well, that objection was not raised. I very much appreciate Mr Kytýr for not lying, for telling the truth, for voting differently than he wanted, but that is no reason to repeat the vote. The only reason to repeat the vote would be if he was sure that he voted no and he had a yes at the junk. But that, Mr President, is not the case. You've explained exactly how it is, and I don't believe you'd decide to lie right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u126	Thank you. President Faltýnek withdraws his application. We will continue to vote on further amendments. Is Mr Kytýr still voting? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u127	Since we are not likely to vote on my objection from the President's decision, I would like to request the correction of the electronic record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u128	Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u129	Where on the screen record and the electronic record is that I voted in favour, and I really wanted to vote against it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u130	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. It'll be repaired in the tape screen. Just for the record, I note that it is not the President's decision to vote, but that a properly formulated request has not been made so that the vote can be repeated. That's it. Please continue voting on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u131	Thank you. So back to what we have before us. And we have before us - the last thing we have voted on is Mrs Jarošová H8, if I am not mistaken, follow me well, and now the vote of Mrs Monika Jarošová H3 is coming in, which is an increase in fines for offences on the animal protection against abuse. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u132	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 56, 102 Members signed up, for 86, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u133	Yes, thank you. We are on the twenty-third vote under the approved procedure and are on the amendments by Mr Jan zahradník I1 and I2 en bloc by one vote. It introduces an obligation to inform the village of the location of the animal in the shelter. The Agricultural Committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u134	Mr. Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 57, 102 Members signed up, for 28, against 61. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u135	We are at Kateřina Valachová's 20th vote under the letter J My colleague proposes a special regime for bear and dog beasts, and the agricultural committee proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u136	Mr. Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 58, 101 Members voted in favour of 3, against 74. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u137	We would have been in the 25th vote, i.e. in the amendments by Mr Petr Bendl K1 to K18, but a proposal by A22 was adopted, which therefore excluded K10, and A20, which excluded K18. So we are voting K1 to K9 and K11 to K17 by Mr Bendl, who, by these proposals, regulates the obligations on the section of experimental animals, the obligations on the transport of animals and repeals the ban on the reproduction and import of beasts and apes into the Czech Republic. The Agricultural Committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u138	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 59 registered 102 Members, for 22, against 30. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u139	Since H3 was adopted by Mrs Jarošová, the unvoting proposals of L1 and L2 by Mr Pavel Bělobrádek are unvoting. We are therefore one vote for Mr Holomčík, the twenty-seventh vote according to the procedure, proposals N1 and N2 en bloc. My colleague Holomčík wants to cancel the exception of surgical damage to wings in birds. The Agricultural Committee proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u140	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 60, 102 Members registered, for 12, against 21. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u141	This makes it an unvoted amendment by Mr Holomčík N3 to abolish the exemption in birds other than flamingos, pelicans and rubbish, but because the N1, N2 did not pass, neither will N3 pass, nor will N3. And here we are with Mr Holomčík N4's amendment. It establishes the vet's obligation to identify the owner of the killed animal. The Agricultural Committee proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u142	I apologize, rapporteur, just to make sure. I have here in the notes that the N3 is unvoteable if the N1, N2 has been adopted. N1, N2 has not been accepted. But it's possible my background isn't correct. Are they right? Then we should vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u143	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr President is right. The President is always right. I apologize to my colleague Holomčík. N3 is voteable because N1, N2 has not been adopted. Again, I apologize to everyone. Thank you. So we will vote for colleague Holomčík N3, abolishing the exception of surgical damage to wings in birds, except flamingos, pelicans and rubbish. The Agricultural Committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u144	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 61, there are 101 Members, for 11, against 20. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u145	Thank you. We are on the 29th vote, once again with Mr Holomčík - proposal N4 introduces the vet's duty to identify the owner of the spent animal. The Agricultural Committee proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u146	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 62, 100 Members have entered, for 10, against 56. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u147	We are in - we would have been in the 30th vote under the approved procedure, Mr Holomčík N5, but according to my records, A4 was adopted, which makes the N5 proposal unvoteable. Isn't that right, Mr President? [[Yes.]] Yes, so we're on the thirty-first vote according to the procedure. Mr Vlastimil Válek O1's amendment - a reduction in compensation for fur producers: 2 000 - mink, 3 000 - fox. The negative opinion is proposed by the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u148	Because apparently b was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u149	Ah! The non-voiceability note is on the other side. I'm sorry. A proposal for SD 5515 has been adopted. We are with - the thirty-second vote is the same; House document 5515 was adopted. The 33rd also so, because the House document 5515 was adopted. And here we are - colleague Kolovratník is also unvoteable because a colleague Pošvář has been accepted. We are with my colleague Jurečka - thirty-five votes - Q1. It strengthens the enforcement of binding guidelines of the Regional Veterinary Administration. The Agricultural Committee proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u150	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 63, 101 Members registered, for 17, against 45. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u151	Voting thirty-sixth - Mr Jurečka - Q2. It strengthens the vet's powers to enter the buildings. The Agricultural Committee proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u152	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 64, 101 Members are enrolled, for 15, against 45. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u153	Thirty-seventh vote - Mr Jurečka - Q3 to Q5 en bloc with one vote. The refinement of the ban on breeding. The Agricultural Committee, as a guarantee, proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u154	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 65, 101 Members registered, for 17, against 29. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u155	In the thirty-nineth vote, the amendment by Mr Marian Jurečka Q7 to Q9 by one vote. This is about imposing a ban on breeding and on criminal offenses. The Agricultural Committee has a negative opinion. [[Objection.]] Sorry, yes, back. Thirty-eight - Mr Jurečka Q6's amendment. Introduces registration of bitches in breeding. Negative opinion of the Agricultural Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u156	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 66, 101 Members registered, for 7, against 28. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u157	And now we are one vote on that thirty-nine Mr Jurečka Q7 to Q9 en bloc. The imposition of a ban on breeding and on criminal offenses. The Agricultural Committee proposes a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u158	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 67, 101 Members signed up for 29, against 42. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u159	In the next vote, the number of 40 amendments by Mr Jurečka Q10 to Q13 en bloc by one vote. This is the release of an adjustment relating to the responsibility for the animal's attack. Q10 is unvoteable because A4 has been accepted. Q11 is unvoted, A26 has been accepted. And Q12 and Q13 are voted in case Q10 is voted out, which wasn't, so the whole proposal is unvoting. The 40th vote of Mr Jurečka is again Q14 to Q17 en bloc by one vote. The refinement of the breeder's responsibility for the animal's attack. Q14 non-voting, received A1. Q15 non-voting, A26 accepted. [[correct A4]] And Q16 and Q17 are voteable if Q14 can be voted, but that cannot be voted because it is unvoted when A4 is accepted, so we don't even have anything to vote on here. According to my imperfect records, we voted on all the amendments and there is therefore a vote on the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u160	Yes, rapporteur. That's consistent with my records. We voted on all the proposals. We will proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, pursuant to House press 514, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 68, 102 Members registered, for 100, against 1. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it.]] The House agreed to the bill. I have a point here that we are to vote on the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u161	Yes, we have two proposals for an accompanying resolution. The first proposal was tabled by colleague Petr Bendl and I dare say it is short, read it, repeat it again. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to actively enforce the ban on cage breeding at EU level and asks for information on this matter to the Chamber of Deputies by 31. 3. 2021'. The other was presented by me. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Supports the declaration submitted by the European Commission by the Minister for Agriculture for a pan-European ban on laying hens in cages since 2030; 2. At the same time, he asks for the submission of interim information to the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. So many two motions for an accompanying resolution. Please, it's yours, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-16-ps2017-058-02-001-334.u162	Yes. First of all, we will therefore vote on Mr Bendl's accompanying resolution. I don't suppose we'd have to read that text again, everyone heard it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 69, 100 Members registered, for 49, against 1. The motion was not accepted. [[12.30 hours]] We will now vote on the accompanying resolution by President Kováčik. I guess we don't have to read again either. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 99 Members signed in for 98, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. Now we're going to look at point number
