ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u1	490. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from 14.30 to 16.00, and then to other members of the Government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members have been distributed to you in the benches as they have been drawn. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the Prime Minister's intervention is exhausted, an intercession block will be immediately launched on the other members of the Government. I am now giving the floor to Mrs Helena Langšádlová - who was originally drawn in the second place, but Mrs Zahradníková took back her interpelation - and I will ask her to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, you may recall, months ago, I initiated the creation, the establishment of a committee on hybrid threats, and I believe that at the moment we are also facing one hybrid threat in the form of massive dissemination of disinformation about covid. It has many forms. On the one hand, information is spreading that it's actually such a flu that it's nothing at all. On the other hand, disinformation is spreading in which the problem of covid is exaggerated, disinformation is spreading about putting a chip in your throat during testing, and about the fact that it is a worldwide conspiracy of rich and powerful, that it is only the interest of pharmaceutical companies and that the vaccination will be a fake. Indeed, all this disinformation is a great risk for us to cope with the crisis, because in the past, misinformation may have caused some influence on political decision-making in elections, referendums in Europe, but at the moment, it threatens our health. Because at a time when so much disinformation is spreading, it is actually getting considerably worse for people to be oriental about what is happening. So I wanted to ask you how strategic communication of the state in the covid area looks. Strategic communication includes knowing how to communicate the misinformation as it spreads. When will the concept of civil education be supported? Part of the concept of civil education, and it is the Government resolution of 2016, is also education for critical thinking and media literacy. If you also look at a document that relates at European level to the fight against misinformation in relation to covid, Prime Minister, please look at it, there is also a call for Fact-Checking. We need to be able to explain to people what's true and what's false.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u3	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u4	So hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for asking. Yes, it's definitely a big subject. And it is true that the European Union has issued, on the basis of an ongoing pandemic, a document, joint sharing with the European Parliament, the European Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, a document called the Fight against Disinformation on COVID-19, truth and myth. This material was chosen for discussion by both the Senate committee and the Chamber of Deputies. The European Union has issued this communication in response to the information, or the phenomenon of spreading excessive information about the problem, which makes it difficult to find the solution accompanying the COVID-19 pandemic, since the extent of the possible impact on the spread of disinformation on the health of citizens and the stability of society requires, however, that efforts to strengthen the fight against misinformation be continued. As a result of the measures taken, a large part of the company reduced personal contact and made more use of social media or online platforms where a large number of misinformation is spread. Since COVID-19 represents a completely new virus whose characteristics are gradually discovered, the lack of knowledge has proved to be an ideal breeding ground for spreading false and misleading arguments and information. The European Union responded to the threat when it launched a special website in March 2020, which deals with false claims related to COVID-19, promotes credible content and helps to distinguish between facts and fiction. Foreign ministers also agreed on the need to respond actively to disinformation related to the spread of COVID-19 disease during the informal meeting in April this year. The European Parliament has also called for decisive action in this area by the European Union. For example, misinformation and misleading information in relation to a possible vaccine on COVID-19 continues to spread successfully and is likely to make the introduction of vaccines more difficult as they become available. The European Union Communication presents specific examples of disinformation campaigns conducted in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, analyses the issue discussed and proposes several solutions that the European Commission will adopt together with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. The Czech Republic has long been aware of the negative effects resulting from the massive spread of disinformation in online space and supports a jointly coordinated approach by the European Union in this matter. The key areas to focus on are strategic communication capacities, cooperation within the European Union, cooperation with third countries and international partners, greater transparency on-line platforms, ensuring freedom of expression, status and raising citizens' awareness and, last but not least, protection of public health and consumer rights. Organized disinformation campaigns were not recorded in the Czech Republic during the COVID-19 pandemic, only individual cases of spread of disinformation that were disseminated through social networks or chain emails. For the most part, it was already traditional disinformation channels. From the point of view of the Ministry of Health, disinformation and myths associated with vaccines on COVID-19 are particularly serious. Although the vaccine is not yet commercially available, misleading and unverified information on its harmfulness or inefficiency is being disseminated by the company. These myths may pose a very serious problem, as any discreditation of vaccination programmes is essential for the protection of public health. During the pandemic, the Ministry of Health regularly called on citizens not to rely on unverified information on social networks. We have also used social networks that are the easiest source of information available to many citizens to communicate. We welcome that a number of social networks have stepped up to the self-regulation of disclosure, however consistently uncoordinated these are. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the IHIS, has also created special websites on which all measures taken are not only published, but also advice and recommendations for citizens and health professionals. This website is also an important source of information for the media that informs the pandemic to an unusually high degree. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. And the honourable Member is interested in asking a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u6	Thank you. Prime Minister, you quoted me here from these two documents. I'm the rapporteur, I know them. But I asked about strategic communication between the state and the health department. If you're at least using the Home Office documents here, it's a disinformation manual. If you're gonna be good enough to do some fact-checking so people can even verify what the truth is and what the truth isn't. After all, that's what I was asking if the Civil Education Strategy was going to be, which is the government's task in 2016. This includes training for critical thinking and media literacy. This is how the company really decomposes. It leads to a part of the public, not contributing to some of the government's decisions, simply believing in misinformation, and then not respecting the measures that are important at the moment. This is also happening in other countries, but with us extremely heavily.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u8	Well, I understand, of course, but let's talk about the virus that's actually been going on in this media space since all these shows. No one knows the virus. A lot of people and experts comment on this, even doctors who aren't epidemiologists. We have a drape denier, I can read their list here. Then, of course, we have experts who are on the contrary. I am convinced that the first wave was managed thanks to the mandatory wearing of masks in public, not only in indoor spaces. So, yes, we have different biologists who are putting down catastrophic scenarios here. Even the epidemiologists themselves, Professor Beran and Professor Prymula, who have been sitting together in the office for several years, have a different view. Even quarantined for athletes, even quarantined overall. And every part of the problem with the covid, the drapes, the testing, who to test, who not to test, who to quarantine. When we look at the opinions of the clinics, the infectologists, the chiefs of infectious clinics, so this is it, about the drugs. Yes, we had Plaquenil here, they said how great it would be. They found out it wasn't working. This Remdesivir supposedly works. Yes, the Department of Health is trying. He's trying. Of course he's full of it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u9	Your time, Prime Minister. Thank you. Mrs Jarošová will perform with another interview. Mr. Čižinský will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I want to ask you about this year's food jumping price, and especially fruit and vegetables, in a country that was once self-sufficient both in industry and agriculture, and which has given up all of this over the last 30 years by gradually selling out, including water. Under the slogans We belong to the West we have lost our self-sufficiency and turned into an inadequate montage and a junk market. Prime Minister, I want to ask you when will be better. Is it a condition where people devalue their savings? If they're added for the great glory of a thousand grand crown, and then they leave so much in the store once? Do we have to get used to further increases in the fact that the worst economic effects are yet to come, or do you see the future more hopeful, perhaps, in supporting our country's food self-sufficiency? How do you feel, Prime Minister, about the amendment to the Food Act and the proposal to gradually increase the share of Czech food in our market? And why do we have the highest rate of inflation and very expensive food? I wonder where the mistake went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u11	Thank you. And the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u12	Then I'll start with the answer to that last question. Well, what's wrong? Well, the mistake happened about the beginning. The mistake was allowing foreigners to buy land. For example, Maďar and Polák wouldn't allow it. That we didn't understand what a agro-food vertical is. That we said we'd bring everything. It's been said. That is why we have the highest concentration of chains from all over Europe to the population. And probably because farmers aren't any, they don't have that kind of potential. [[unintelligible]] I was talking about France last time, where the Salon de l'agriculture is, it's the biggest political event, and I said it's up to 20 percent, but I guess I was wrong because one journalist corrected me, it's 10 percent of the voters in France, Poland and... And because it simply didn't support agriculture or the food industry. There's no major investor from abroad to the grocery store. Only the Francouz or Ital came here to actually make some cheese and parmesan. We export 30 percent of milk to import 50 percent of butter. So, yes, we underestimated that, and that was the concept, that was the philosophy. Well, what are we gonna do about it? Well, of course, it's a problem to fix very quickly today, because we're not self-sufficient in pork anymore, so they're importing 60 percent. Now, somewhere in Europe, there's a pig plague and so on. So I understand. Fruit, vegetables, we only have 30 percent. And why are the prices going up now? Well, because fruit and vegetables are actually produced mainly in countries that were most affected by COVID-19. That means Italy, Spain. And simply, the imports are not enough to cover demand. And that's probably why. Of course I don't know it. Of course, as far as inflation is concerned, of course, it is also given overall in those countries that are growing and getting richer, so the purchasing power of the population has increased, and that is also one of the reasons. And that's why, for example, we proposed that one-off allowance for pensioners this year for budgetary reasons, because their consumer basket actually exceeded the consumer basket of normal households for the first time. So... people write to me sometimes, why don't we get some prizes. But we can't make it happen. We as government or resorts are unable to do this. There was a big debate about the VAT reduction, but the VAT reduction would just end up with those chains again. And that it wouldn't be reflected in people's prices. We have a problem with these events, where it's basically also a strategy, of course, that the chain buys something for ten, sells it for five to lure those customers who then buy everything there. Well, that's what the debate was about. But this, of course, is primarily the role of the food chamber and possibly agriculture. So we're probably parked here somewhere with that double-quality food bill Mr. Toman put forward, but I don't think you've discussed it yet because you're still discussing COVID-19. So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u13	Your time, Prime Minister. Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in asking an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u14	Prime Minister, I'm glad you understand, but that's not enough. Those guys are gonna take it to high-priced stores. We need to do everything we can to be self-sufficient again, as we were. I know that we cannot influence the prices of imported commodities, they affect the market, but what can and is entirely in the hands of the government is ensuring self-sufficiency in the production of basic food. I think that the return of food self-sufficiency to our growers, breeders, processors and producers should be a number one priority for the responsible government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u15	Thank you. Quickly, before the Prime Minister comes to the microphone, I will read the apology of Minister Petříček, who apologizes today from 14:30 to the end of the day for work reasons. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u16	I understand. I would actually recommend a very simple thing. You know, we retired people used to go into gardens, not chains this weekend. So try to finally pass the law on gardening here. Don't worry about COVID-19. You've been on this for about 15 hours. Yeah? Today even young people are interested in gardens. There's a lot of people growing vegetables, fruit, so that would be great if you finally approved this place. You have about 300 laws in a row, so instead of being full of epidemiologists, try this. That would certainly be a big step in favour of self-sufficiency. It used to be. I'm sure it's more of a question to Minister Toman about how he'll support it, but there are some things, like breeding pigs that... I can't imagine anybody ever letting go of a pig in our house. I think that's absolutely out of the question. But I think we should focus on the things that are for our health, and that's fruit and vegetables. And, of course, in that regard, I think Minister Toman is acting. But it would be good if you were to intersect him separately, actually, because I'm sorry, but I don't know the details. Otherwise, I understand you, but of course we're at a different time today than right after the revolution, when, of course, it was easier to do these things. Not to mention, even those with vegetables or fruit don't have people. They don't have people. Despite covid we were still discussing so that Ukrajinec and others could come here, because even though we have the lowest unemployment, there is no one to work. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u17	Thank you. Mr Čižinský will speak with the next interview. Mr Lipavský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u18	Great advice: it's expensive, so grow it. But now on a different subject. Prime Minister, I appeal to you about the situation of tens to hundreds of unmarried couples made up of partners of different nationality, who have divided the restrictions on travel after the beginning of the Corona epidemic and who have not been able to meet for several months. A derogation from travel restrictions has been accepted, but only unmarried couples from visa-free countries can benefit, plus those who have a child together. Moreover, the exemption applies only to Czech citizens and all residents, including those from the European Union, are excluded, which I think is contrary to the law of the European Union. In turn, partners of Czech citizens from countries outside the Union cannot obtain a Schengen visa. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs states that issuing visas is not possible due to the Ministry of Health's protective measures. The Department of Health, as far as I know, is not responding at all in this matter. Let us put ourselves in the situation of these unfortunate people who have been forced apart for months, although they are willing to be tested and remain quarantined for as long as necessary. Love is not tourism. According to this, we should look at the situation of these couples. Please ensure coordination between the ministries concerned and that they actually address the problem. It is time for a positive shift to be made to resolve the situation of these people and not to be sent from devil to devil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u19	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u20	Thank you for asking. In the context of this emergency, I have dealt with several such cases, and as far as I know, the current situation is that the protection measure of the Ministry of Health now allows the arrival of an unmarried partner or partner to a citizen or citizen of the Czech Republic. So in order to allow for arrival, it is necessary to apply to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where it is necessary, in accordance with the safeguards, to provide documents confirming the durability of the relationship. The proposal for a new safeguard measure, which will be discussed here today between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs, also includes the arrivals of partners - citizens of the European Union who are staying in the Czech Republic for more than 90 days. So it's new information to me, but if you're unhappy with the answer, of course I'll inform my colleagues from the government immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u21	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u22	Thank you. I must say, that answer surprises me. I didn't cover up the interview, I sent the text in advance to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you, Prime Minister, are wrong here. These people just can't come. The exception is only for Czech citizens, all residents, including those from the European Union, are excluded, and it must also be from countries without visa requirements and have a child together. The others are excluded from this at the moment. I was wondering, let's make a date until the situation is resolved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u23	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u24	If you give me that paper of yours and I'll have it written exactly, then of course I can deal with it. As far as interception is concerned, thank you, I get it about an hour and a half before, because these days I simply deal with covid from morning to evening. So I have this background that I've read here, developed by Zdeněk Chlupáč, I don't know who it is. I'll take it and send it to the ministers, and I'll be sure to ask them as soon as I can, and I'll answer you as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u25	Thank you. Mr Lipavský will speak with the next interview. Mrs Šafránková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u26	Dear Prime Minister, I want to ask you today how much you are willing and ready to advocate the promotion of human rights in the world. In connection with the events that have taken place in Belarus since August, you wrote on your Twitter account: "In Belarus, what happened in our country must not happen in 1968. The European Union must be an action." For example, you also invited the Belarusian ambassador, you had one very emotional expression, I believe authentic. I quote: "I've been looking at multiple videos from Belarus where cowardly aggressive police are beating up defenseless people. It's an incredible atrocity." I'll just point out that there were about five protesters killed during those events. [[15.00 hours]] I have prepared a bill that would give the Czech Republic the opportunity to face the worst human rights violations in the world. People who commit them, or rather monsters, would somehow be forbidden to travel to the Czech Republic, or the Czech Republic would freeze their property. It is the so-called Magnitský law, in the Czech version it is called the Human Rights Act, or specifically the draft law on measures to protect human rights, democracy and the rule of law within the framework of foreign policy of the Czech Republic. It's quite fat, I've prepared the whole place. Now I'll let you pass it on. And my question is, are you willing and prepared to support this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u27	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u28	Mr. Čižinský has already left, but I sent his paper to Hamáček, Petříček, Vojtěch, and we'll see how they react. Well, about Bělorusko. Yes, that's some story of what I said and didn't say. It's authentic, yes. I came home on Friday, and my daughter showed me those videos, and it was something terrible. That was 14. 8, Friday. So I responded, and by that time, the Polish Prime Minister was already trying to enforce the European Council's call for Belarus. But Charles Michel didn't want much of it, so he said in late September. So I started helping him, too, texting President Macron, Madam Chancellor, Prime Minister V4. I supported it, and in the end, the Council 19 took place on our common pressure. 8. that was Wednesday, video conferencing. And yes, because my involvement in human rights, yes, for me, if I'm involved, I see at least a minimum chance of making a difference, and that's when I saw it. At the time, I felt good about it, and I got involved because challenging some regimes to respect human rights is fine, but for some it is clear that it will not change, but it is not my style. When I got involved, I got involved because I felt like it might turn out. And, of course, I've also met the Belarusian minority here, and they've handed me, for example, the complaint against the detonator manufacturer. I also checked that they didn't even sell it. Yesterday was the fake - the Belarusian truck that was at the firm, it's the fake again, that's what Mrs. Langšádlová was talking about. It's actually a scam. They gave me a whole list of people who were killed and who were arrested, and so on. Yes, although I have been involved, I have also been involved within the V4 and within that framework, because of course Europe has a lot of problems today, and some states are involved in the conflict of Greece-Turkey-Cyprus. And the V4 on the forehead with the Polish Prime Minister is engaged in the Belarusian case. And the important thing was that we have to act unitedly, so actually Europe has agreed on the sanctions. This was concluded at the level of foreign ministers, yes, at the European Council. So, of course, unfortunately, it hasn't worked out yet. Although at some point it already seemed - because this Lukašenko promised that if there was a change of constitution, there would be new elections and so on. So I don't know exactly what the bill is, but of course I'm going to hand it over to my colleagues - not perhaps, but certainly - to Minister Petříček to take a look at it. But I just want to point out that we must act together within the European Union. So we agreed, and the most important thing is that we went to Lublin, where we spent about three and a half hours, so it's that we push through this topic at all on the European Council's agenda, because it has not yet been there for Europe to actually want to discuss it. And Poland is, of course, the most active, with 400,000 Bělorus, 400,000 Polák living in Belarus. And I got involved because I've known these people a long time. So we're going to keep doing this, but we just have to act in a uniform way, and of course we have to put pressure on the Bělorus to choose where they belong. So we don't tell them where they belong again. We're not even supposed to tell them who to vote for. Let them decide for themselves. The point is that the elections that the European Union did not recognise and we did not recognise, that they should be repeated and that they be democratic and that the Bělorus decide their future so that Ukraine does not repeat itself. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u29	Thank you, and the Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u30	Yes, yes, yes. Thank you for your comment. You're right to say that unity is problematic. If I have good information, at this point, the common position is blocking Cyprus, for example, through the unrelated issue of Greece-Turkey and the maritime zones there. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs knows the proposal because I organized the round table where we talked about it, so now I'm in the process of collecting political support. There's a signature sheet, it's a parliamentary proposal. It is precisely the point that, in a situation where the European unity cannot be found, so that the Czech Republic does not just sit at the negotiating table and can not express the declarations of support and indignation as we do, but also have a concrete proposal. This means that the government would decide against specific persons or organisations on the sanctions I had in the previous word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u32	Okay. Well, I don't know about that. It's the first time I've heard it. So, of course, I will find out the opinion of Minister Petříček and colleagues at the Office of the Government and give you an opinion on this. I'm not able to respond to that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u33	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková will speak with further intervention and Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the question: Why has your government not yet presented reform of the pension system to the House and citizens in three years of its existence, even though this commitment is contained in its programming declaration? According to the National Budget Board, which is a government advisory body composed of renowned economic experts in your chosen staff, in its reports it draws attention to the long-term unsustainable pension system and consequently to the entire system of public finances, if its adjustment does not change significantly. According to this institution, at the latest within 10 years, difficulties will start to occur in the system of public finances resulting from demographic developments and the state's currently allocated expenditure and its tax policy, with the first major demographic pressures on the pension system starting to take place between 2031 and 2032. It is the pension system in its current form and its future growing imbalances in relation to the ageing population that are the main causes of the long-term unsustainableness of our public finances. Without substantial changes made as soon as possible, only generations born after 1980 will bear a very heavy burden of future adjustments. The later necessary stabilization of the pension system comes, the stronger it will have to be, the National Budget Board also states. Dear Prime Minister, will you present a genuine pension reform which cannot be regarded as some of the so-called Commission for Fair Pensions under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by the end of this term? And if not, then why, if, according to the key economic authority of your government, this is a matter that is necessary and cannot be delayed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u35	I thank you and pass the word on to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u36	Mr. Čižinský has left. I already have the answers. Hamáček writes: "He's right, but this is for health care decisions. They'd have to allow it with extraordinary measures. Vojtěch writes: Now there is an exception for Čech and their partners. The new exception will be for EU citizens staying here for at least 90 days. The partners will be able to visit them as of Monday. It's in the proposal we're dealing with right now. Third-countryrs do not want this, nor is it in line with the recommendation of the EU Council that we are sticking to. Well, I hope Mr. Čižinský hears it. I didn't understand. You said the National Budget Board was our key body? Of course not, colleague. The National Budget Board has become an institution of the opposition. The lady who was nominated by Klaus to Komerční banka sometime in 1993, 1994, was sitting there when they worked so well there that our Lehman Brothers were then discussing when all the banks were bankrupt, with the Czech consolidation agency. So I'm sorry, but the board is already political, so the board actually interprets what the opposition says, virtually. it's probably, as I understand it, a representative of the ODS, and it's probably just a matter of time before he shows up in politics. About the pensions. Yes. Like I'm gonna ask. The pension reform committee has been here since the revolution. I don't know how many years he's been there, maybe 20. They didn't solve anything. And we have the government's programming statement - and now I don't have it here, but I'd like to read it to you, or there's the fact that they're gonna set up that committee. And that's where everyone sits. Aren't you sitting there? [[The MP shakes his head that he doesn't fit.]] No. But that's how all the opposition parties are there. And who knew that president of this pension commission would become a quasi-nine presidential candidate? I mean, the lady's still talking about everything. He's still expressing himself. He's commenting on Twitter. He can do anything. He solves everything. Well. And the secretary always went to a press conference after the retirement committee, and she said, we had the CSSD and this... Well. So, please, make retirement reform that you solve expenses, that's what anyone can do. It's just the revenue's missing. That's the problem. So, as the biggest shock to me was when we were supposed to meet in the finals with the President, the presidential candidate, and Mrs Maláčová didn't come, but actually the President denied even what we got. So I'm sorry. But you know what's important? That we're raising pensions. That we'd give the 5,000 crowns. That we gave that discount to the old people. And that we take care of them! And it is the priority of the YES movement. I never say YES, but now I have to say it. [[Fun in the hall.]] So even the increase in pensions in the first government, minorities, we did that 205 days. So I'm worried we won't make it. I'm not gonna lie to you here. But it's not like my business. Yeah, I'm with the government. But I don't see the revenue there. And basically, we say here, we raise pensions, and now we raise taxes, I don't know how much, so even the lady says we have to do tax reform. But we have about a year before the election, or a year and two weeks, so I'm afraid we're not gonna make it. [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] But that doesn't mean there won't be any pension money. If you're saying that the key organ says 2050-- and I admire people who know what's going to be 2050-- I'm definitely not going to be here anymore-- they know it ahead-- we don't even know what's going to happen properly-- and nobody knows it on this planet, so she already knows 2050 and they're making tables. Unbelievable! By the way, the National Budget Board should be talking to us. No? And she doesn't even talk. They come in here, and they're actually performing mostly for the ODS. It's such a strange organ. And there's too many of them. It costs money. But I don't think it matters much to us. And then we write to each other. I mean, Mrs. Schillerová's texting. I'm telling her to respond. So I understand. But I'm afraid we'd all have to agree on that here, all sides. And the next government to come after us... Or we could agree that for the next 30 years, there will be some kind of pension reform. It's basically simple, like, even complicated. Because... [[Attention on time.]] Then I'll finish talking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u37	The additional question will be? It will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u38	Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answer for me, and I am afraid for the many citizens who are watching this at the moment. [[Laughter from YES benches]] However, in this context, I would like to add that one possible systemic measures in the framework of the future reform of the pension system is also the introduction of an institute of so-called minimum pension above the threshold of income poverty according to Eurostat methodology, which is now around CZK 14,000, which our SPD has already submitted in the form of a bill, and you and your government have opposed. Then I'd like to ask why. Do you find it dignified and fair for tens of thousands of pensioners to live with monthly income below CZK 10,000, dependent on social benefits and in executions after a lifetime of hard work? And as part of the gloating, as you spoke here, I would like to say that even single moms, disabled people, and other people who have been affected by this situation would need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u39	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u40	Please don't use the name of the mask. It's not sloppy. It's a post! [[Laughter from the YES benches. Response from the right.]] To a better standard of living. This is where I was tested for fruit and vegetable prices. And those old people need to live healthy. That's how they buy more fruit and vegetables. [[Messenger's reaction. Very Blacksmith.]] It's expensive, says a colleague here. That's why we're giving them the donation. I look forward to seeing you, colleague. I haven't seen you in a long time. You're in good shape. [[Laughter from the YES benches.]] So please, seniors, you don't have to worry as long as I'm in the government, there will always be higher pensions. Even the discount. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] So like I don't know what... I just forgot, I had something else to say, like. [[She turns to Mrs. Saffránková:]] What did you say? [[The person in question is responding.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, we got a ninth... Yeah, I know what I was gonna say. My favorite former party that I voted for and I became a father. Do you know how much ODS gave seniors 2010? Zero! Here was the sympathetic Member of the TOP 09, Mrs Langšádlová, already left, and her boss Kalousek gave 45 crowns. And we give 900! 900. Next year, 848. And if you count the 5,000, and it's not sloppy, divided by 12, you get to 1264. So seniors don't have to worry. We've done a lot of things for them! Medication benefits and so forth. Now, of course, we must protect them as part of the covid. But pension reform - you must leave that for the next House. I don't know. But unfortunately, it is. Like, maybe she'll surprise Mrs. Little Maláčová. [[Fun in the hall.]] I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u41	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová will do the next interview. Mr. Michálek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u42	Dear Prime Minister, yesterday the House discussed item kontrola of the implementation of resolution No. 1162, which was assigned to the government to carry out a number of tasks, and you as Prime Minister were once again missing. I'll ask you a simple question. Why? Your participation makes sense, all the more so, that the government has failed to fulfil a number of tasks. Why do you not want to comment on this and send instead to the Minister of Health, to whom I do not envy this role? After all, you have a great responsibility, and it includes explaining your steps. I understand that some things are difficult to explain, such as holidays in Greece at a time when you call on other citizens of the Czech Republic to stay in the Czech Republic. Or the dehonestation of the Ministry of Health's decision to introduce the obligation to wear a drape from the end of August. Under pressure from social media, you said it was nonsense and that you would make sure it was different. Well, you've taken care of yourself. This is especially evident in the daily number of infected people. I would assume that the government and, above all, you as Prime Minister will be the guarantor of stability and uniform rules for citizens, which make sense with regard to the longer-term plan. You probably don't have a plan at all. And from the rules, you're looking for exceptions especially for yourself. [[15.20 hours]] Prime Minister, can we not interpret this as contempt for the public? Why do you sacrifice a clear and meaningful system in favour of popularity on social networks? You have a huge responsibility. Surrender your own cheap populism at least in these weeks when it comes to a lot. Face the problems! If you cannot discuss problems, then I do not wish such a Prime Minister to the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u43	Your time, Madame. Thank you. And the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u44	I'm sorry, I didn't understand your performance at all. I understand you're running back into the country now, right? And what is really the worst is that the health of our citizens is being abused for campaigns. The worst thing that could have happened to COVID-19 is election to the county. And it would be good if you actually stopped. And I can remind you of all your comments on the covid. From the moment you yelled that we were canceling flights from Italy and canceling the biathlon, you criticized everything, the opposition, everything was scandalous, we gave muzzles, democracy, we're in the camp. Everyone was screaming to relax again, fast, fast, relaxing! Get your drapes down! And now you're screaming the other way around. Don't you think that's funny? I don't know where you got that, why I should be here yesterday. Unlike you, I'm handling it. Every day. Now, before normal, because the first Dušek report came in at 4:00 in the morning. So I don't know, actually, I don't understand what you're saying here. Now you're all screaming, Central Crisis Staff! That's interesting. What's the reason now? So you can have a deputy there? TOP 09 had the biggest denier in there. Mr. Šmucler. He's still saying it's absolutely stupid. Or what is it? So you guys need to talk again? So I don't know what you're talking about. I don't have a problem with accounting, I've never avoided it. I go to the media, I'm commenting. And the fact that I wasn't here yesterday, well, because I had an American delegation here, and there were about six or seven companies that came from the United States that I promised to accept. And the fact that you're going to have an emergency meeting again... Last time the pirát were here for six and a half hours, here was the chief epidemiologist, here were the two ladies sitting, the real ones, and they weren't surprised how you all understand the epidemiology. And you understand the virus, you understand everything. Like, I don't know, instead of calming people down, yeah, unfortunately, covid's taking advantage of regional elections. And I'm very sorry. Because yes, someone can say, "Why didn't you do this? Why didn't you do this? It's not even true what you said here that I made a difference. I haven't changed. On the 17th of August, a methodology was issued for schools so that 14 days would be possible for schools to comment on this. When they published it last minute, it was a problem. And there was clearly a traffic light. And on August 19th, the Ministry of Health, the epidemiology group, instead of the traffic light, issued a general order. And based on that, the three expert groups that were there said there was no deal. And I didn't change anything! It's just disinformation from the media, which, of course, always pulls things out. When Mrs Jágrová says she doesn't dance in an hour, it says right away that everything is wrong. Like us at the Health Department, we've made more digitalization in six months than we have since the revolution. So, based on that, the Minister cleared up the place and made Mrs. Rážová the head of everyone on the committee, everyone. Epidemiology, clinical and laboratory. Yes? And I think everyone's doing their best, and they've been doing it since January. Since January. The hygiene that no one even tripped about, which weren't even, 14 decentred hygiene, they didn't have technology, they didn't have anything. And we discovered this profession that wasn't popular at all. So I don't understand your personal attacks on me for what reason you're attacking me when I can read to you here for a long time what you've been saying to the opposition. I think you can do it. There were demonstrations! [[Attention on time.]] The opposition is represented by a million moments, they're your guru. And they protested! A muzzle on democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u45	Thank you. The honourable Member will probably want to raise an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u46	Prime Minister, thank you for the answer, but you asked some questions and you say you don't understand why you were supposed to be here yesterday. Well, let me explain. A resolution to carry out the tasks given to the Government by the Chamber of Deputies was checked. And you are at the head of this government, you are the prime minister of this country! So remember that you are responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and not to the social media. First of all. And secondly, you said the worst thing that could have happened to the regional election was covid. Well, I'll tell you what the worst part is. [[Premier from the O.R.: On the contrary.]] It doesn't matter, I'll tell you what's the worst thing for us: that covid met with you. And you made that campaign out of it! Why didn't you go into quarantine? Why did the quarantine rule change when you were in contact with the infected? You're endangering the lives of many people! And I'm asking, what are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u47	Your time, Madame. Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u48	Once again, I don't think you understand what I'm saying. You guys put a new point, and I had a delegation here at 15 o'clock, seven U.S. companies that came to me. So I don't know what you're talking about. And I'd like to see these invectors of yours! I have a respirator and I still wear it. And I don't think anything was done. And it was a normal epidemiological inquiry, so please don't take these insults. I fundamentally refuse to do it! It's nonsense and it's a lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u49	Thank you. Mr Michálek, Mr Ferjenčík, will speak with further intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u50	Thank you for the floor. I want to interpel in a matter that is of course the most important now, and the exploding number of conavir cases. We have 2,000 new cases a day that we detect, which means that there may actually be up to 7,000. Today, at a press conference, the Ministry of Health presented a model according to which up to 3.6 million people can be infected, which means that a lot of people, especially older, are at risk. When we warned you in June that you needed to prepare for the second wave and that you needed to increase the test capacity to 30,000 tests, you called it a haunting and said there was no need for a special plan. That your plan is to watch it, that smart quarantine will watch it. And Mr Vojtěch yesterday, when we checked the implementation of this resolution, he said that they would respond. However, the epidemic is not about reacting, but about predicting developments based on a mathematical model. In your case, you neglected the fact that people did not meet for four months at the Central Epidemiology Commission, headed by the Minister of Health, and was dissolved by the Central Crisis Staff. [[15.30 hours]] We slowly exhaust almost all tools of self-limitation, such as drapes, which are, of course, appropriate, but what must work primarily is what works in epidemics, which means the speed of testing, isolation and quarantine of the infected. And that needs to be strengthened massively. So I wanted to ask you why you did not inform the Chamber of Deputies about the report she had ordered you to submit by 4. 9. And why don't you make sure that this whole system of testing, tracing, and so on, for example, if 400 EET controllers aren't working now because it's off, so why don't these people get involved in a system that will help us face this pandemic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u51	Thank you for keeping the time precise, and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u52	It's de facto the same point that the colleague outlined here. Mr. Ambassador, you're just insulting all those people who actually work since March, some even 20 hours a day, some even overnight. And you also forgot about the whole development. When we set up an emergency, you all screamed you were against it. On March 3, the government is taking pointless measures because of the coronavirus, criticizing the opposition. There you are, everything was against it, you were against the masks, then you were back for it. 1. 7. we removed the drapes, you still didn't want to prolong the emergency. You kept saying, it's useless. And of course, we can discuss here that someone was expecting the virus. Yes, there were supposed to be some mathematical models, so this is obviously the question of how it happened that we were probably the most relaxed in Europe. Yes, we bragged about it, like Austria or Israel, the first one was loosening up, people wanted to get back to normal. And we started building that clever quarantine. The system that was created here - and there were soldiers and others - was handed over to the Ministry of Health 1. 6. and it is true that it did not have the right move on the goal, so we returned to the fashion where we returned the army, where the main engine of this integrated central management team's tasks is Mr Dzurilla, and this is what we have established, in fact, the government, the Council of Health Threats, where everyone, Mr Hamáček, Mr Metnar, Mr Vojtěch, Mr Běhounek, are there and so on. So a lot of things have been done here, this system of smart quarantine, these new systems have been created, and already the labs will be sending text messages with a positive or negative result. He's getting ready to self-port, it should actually come up next Monday, where if someone gets positive, he can, he should fill it out, that saves time. We've increased the sampling points. Today it's over 17,000, labs are about 21,000. That's what we said we were gonna get to $20,000, but we're gonna keep going. And of course, the virus has a completely different character, and I'm neither an epidemiologist nor an expert, yes. And, of course, the COVID-19 government stopped dealing with it at the end of May. Then we didn't make any decisions at all, and of course it's in the Ministry of Health, but I'm applying because we've done a lot of work. And the fact that it's growing now, well, yes, we can tell ourselves why, why Techtle Mechtle, why we are, why, then, when everyone said that the drapes down, now you're saying it was a mistake. Well, maybe it was a mistake for us to keep her all summer, but I don't know what people here would say. [[Nesroz.]] But why do you follow people? Well, there was some situation where we wanted us to normalize our lives. They kept coming to us, all of them. So that cultural events and sports and hockey and soccer and still something, relax, relax, yes, because we wanted to get back to normal and everyone wanted to, look forward to it again, everyone was locked up at home and wanted to get back to normal. And we, of course, now, yes, the plagues are high, very high. The Department of Health is taking precautions. The Minister has integrated all his expert committees to speak with one voice, and they are taking the measures, but it is about, of course, people keeping it, of course, they need to be challenged and - and nothing. [[Your time, Mr President.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u53	Thank you. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u54	Thank you. I didn't get the answers. It was more of a taste as usual, so I'm gonna remind you one more time. Why did we not receive the report that the Chamber of Deputies should have received from you personally by 4. 9. under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies? Why don't you increase your capacity properly to track and test, for example by not transferring other people sitting at home now, such as EET controls. Why didn't the Central Epidemiology Commission meet for four months? These are all specific questions you should be aware of. And I note that it was us, aka our Mayor Zdeněk Hřib, who introduced compulsory wearing of masks in Prague and so on, so it is not true that we would be some fighters against masks. Ask Prime Minister Faltýnek here that we wore drapes here, even though it wasn't mandatory. We're really trying to do this. There is therefore no need to create any impression that all opposition parties are blocking these things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u55	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u56	Mr. Ambassador, I asked the Minister the same question as why the epidemiology committee didn't sit down. She sat down in May and sat down today. And it's a mistake. Yes, it's a mistake. She was supposed to sit down. The argument was that the commission was formed when the flu epidemics occurred. And why didn't we report? Probably because I didn't know about it and I don't keep it in my head. I guess somebody should've warned me about that, too, so I'm sorry about that, and I'm gonna tell my colleagues why I wasn't notified. I don't know if it's me or who, I have to look at it. And, of course, I understand that it's easy to criticize everything. And of course, we've all been together today, you're against it as opposed, but then you understand that it's good what we're doing, so now, of course, there's a lot of people who don't want to, who are absolutely, but we know it in the media space that are against, they say they shouldn't be tested and so on, so that's that we've raised it, and when I compare it... [[He's looking in the desk materials.]] Where do I keep this... [[Cižinský's Member from the vicinity of the speaker's counter: That you will transfer the people there.]] Yeah, guys. We transfer people, yes, for example Raiffeisenbank offered us 50 people from the call center. We've reached out to other banks, we've transferred about 60 students, so it's filling up gradually, a special call center is being prepared. And that's all they do. All of this is done as we go along, and we're doing it all within the framework of the existing different regulations that don't help us to react quickly. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u57	Thank you. We must give room to other interpelling Members. Mr Ferjenčík is next, Mr Lipavský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, we are concerned about the Government's actions in the area of budgetary policy. This has been happening recently - and, paradoxically, the epidemic has accelerated it - to a number of proposals that significantly reduce the revenue of the state budget, whether it be the abolition of the real estate tax, now it is proposed to abolish the supergross wage with the budgetary implications of 74 billion. CZK, tax cuts on diesel fuel - that's another 5 billion. A blackout, a meal voucher we support in our own way, but it can cost 5 to 20 billion. CZK state budget, there will be a significant increase in payments for state insured persons - that will be up to 50 billion. CZK, you're proposing a one-time allowance for retired people, which is 15 billion. Crowns. And, of course, with such doses, it always threatens to repeat itself and the state will burden it for a long time. Some of the steps themselves are right, some of them are questionable. However, when they all happen at the same time and it creates some minus about 150 billion. CZK per year for the state budget is not easy to balance. And I just feel like you're bringing it to the drum this way. The Republic doesn't have the money to make its budget worse by 150 billion now. per year. So either there's some revenue to be dealt with, whether it's tax havens and capital drains, people's involvement in labour market executions, mining taxation, and certainly there are other things to do, but if you don't start looking for some income or at least do it more rationally, you're really going to bring that republic into the drum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u59	I thank you and pass the word on to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u60	Thank you for asking. Well, we won't be able to lead the Republic to the drum. On the contrary. We've been reducing the government's debt. And we inherited it at 41.5 percent against GDP at the end of 2013 and reduced it to 30 percent. So that's the fact that we are one of the least indebted countries in Europe. And you're still trying to create an atmosphere here that's some kind of drama. There is no drama. We're facing an unprecedented crisis, and we just had to pump the money into the economy. We supported it. Today it's 185 billion. It's not like some people yelled out of the opposition that we're in debt for old people and all that nonsense. It's not true. I am convinced that the government debt to GDP at the end of this year will be lower than we started, that it will be around 40 percent, and we will still be one of the best. When I ask my colleagues, for example. in Austria, debt increases by 20 points, in Slovakia 10, that is about as far as we are concerned, so we will still come out very well. And, of course, from the very beginning, our strategy has been tax cuts. We've reduced taxes here by about 160 billion. for that time since 2014, and I think that's the right policy. That's good politics. So, of course, we have an approved huge deficit that I don't think we're going to run out of. I'm not able to say any guesses, because we don't know exactly what's going to happen today, but for example. implementation of the budget as at 16. 9. is minus 254. Of course, the collection of insurance premiums was very bad, but we had that in the past. And, of course, we're gonna pay those pensions like we promised. And we'll cross what we promised. You blame things... The acquisition tax was introduced here by our colleagues and I do not consider it normal that there is no tax when a young family buys a new place, a new apartment or a new house, and if it buys an old one, it should pay the tax. So we changed this abnormality. You always say it selectively, what it is and what it isn't. Now it's two years that are just completely out of line, and that's this year, and of course it's going to be next year. And we didn't want to stop investing. This is happening today because, of course, in the context of the crisis, companies do not invest so much and we have to replace them. And that is what we are doing, and we are increasing the budget enormously. The Supreme Budget of SŽDC and ŘSD, they never had one. They're stopping everywhere. So we just said we wanted to invest. And we also brought a huge amount of money from Brussels, 962 billion, which we want to provide to individual resorts and municipalities and regions in the next period at REACT-EU, Just Transition Fund, Recovery Fund. We don't want it to be invested. We have arranged for enormous flexibility, as the only ones in Europe, to win 25 percent flexibility, to move between funds. So I think we need to see the situation here. And all European states raise their debts, but we will come out as one of the best. I believe that in terms of debt, we will definitely be in the top five, as we have been so far. So I don't share your concerns. We can't do what your opponent partners did, that they walled the whole thing up. They took money from people. The cops didn't even have gas. Retirement zero! Everything. So we're doing the exact opposite, because we just want people not to worry about their future and just to spend and just to make the consumption of the population work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u61	Thank you. Additional question? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u62	Prime Minister, I don't know if that's the intention, but there's been some misunderstand. You talked about the budgets for this and next year, where I agree with the government's efforts to support investment. But I was talking about you taking 150 billion out of those budgets. In the long run, just every year, one, two, three, ten years, there's still 150 billion. minus because of the measures you're proposing, there's no time limit, there's nothing that's a one-time anti-crisis measure. There long-term income cuts and expenditure increases in the long-term. And it doesn't come together. It just makes deficits that aren't sustainable. And either we have to raise taxes in the future or make public services worse, which the pirát certainly don't want to do either. And that's why we think it would be wiser to proceed more wisely in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u63	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u64	I don't know what you're coming from, because the 2021 budget isn't even ready on the table or the outlook, and it's gonna be the subject of debate, we're a minority government, so we're gonna want to get some support for that budget. Yeah, it's going to be a deficit next year, and this one's going to be a deficit, how it's going to be a deficit in the world, it's normal. We are an open economy, 87 percent exported, and when Germany simply pumps 1,000 billion. The euro into the economy to keep it going, and there is no such impact of unemployment in Germany as well as, of course, I believe that the COVID-19 account will at the end consist of the number of unfortunately dead and the percentage of unemployment and the decline in GDP and debt against GDP as a percentage. And it's growing up next year, so that means we're just going to go back to normal. [[15.50 hours]] And what will of course 2022, 2023, so will be the elections 2021, so whoever will be in the government, virtually. all parties will go to the elections with some program, which will subsequently be implemented and will be aware of the state of public finances. We have always said that the deficit, and we have it in the programme, can be if the investments from the Czech budget are high. That's what we've been holding on to, and we're gonna see what happens now and how we're gonna figure out next year. But I believe that next year's outcome will be such that we will be among Europe's least-indebted countries, and therefore I say, there is no need to worry about the future. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u65	Thank you. Mr Lipavský will do the next interview, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself, although there will probably not be enough time for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u66	Dear Prime Minister, I have a feeling that you're making a bit of a downside to the conavir situation. This is the current development in Prague. [[shows the graph]] It shows what spring looked like and where we are at the foot of that growth. I think you know the numbers, those are today's stats. You, on Sunday in the video, made an absolutely outrageous statement from my point of view when you said opposition and commentators are pleased that there is an increase. You still had a tendency to downplay a number of facts. Today's Thursday, and the debate looks a little different. However, my question relates to what the real government is doing for Prague, because there are many hours and long queues, the Wenceslas cord, the collections. Another thing is that there are enough test capacities and that it can then be evaluated. It's just when you learn the test results in a few days and hygiene loses it in a few days, then it's no wonder the increase is so strong, because those people who are infected, maybe they don't even know about it and spread it further. So I'm wondering, do the schools get protective aids from the State Department of Material Reserves? Can't you increase the demand capacity through those mobile units that should be prepared by the Army of the Czech Republic? Because, for example, the situation in senior homes, for which Prague is responsible, is of course highly risky. Those are quite specific things, and I would like to hear specific answers and less of the media sauce and the swearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u67	I thank you, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u68	I don't know who's got the media sauce and who's bitching. You asked what the government is doing for Prague, so I'll tell you. All hospitals are ours, governments. All colleges, all cultural monuments. We reconstructed the National Museum, the State Opera, we're doing the Invalidovna, the New Scene, we'll pay the circuit, and yet Prague received a compensation contribution of 1.7 billion. extra. Prague is so rich. It's 83 billion. in the accounts and I don't know what Prague is doing. I'm just seeing some of those restaurants on the tram tracks. So we do so much for Prague, and we would like to make an arrangement to make the land - Bulovka, Royal Vinohrady, we could invest in those hospitals to make a deal. And that's not a criticism. We and Mr. Hřib are surprisingly communicating well in recent times, even today we were discussing a guide. There's 2.5,000 of them. We have a problem here because these people don't have jobs, so we're dealing with this together. As far as the test capacities are concerned, I don't know which ones you visited, but I've visited them here more times, even in Bulovka, Central Military Hospital, and we've increased them. That means we had labs here - to 13. 9. in Motol capacity 400, assumption increase to 1. 10. 700. Thomayerův Hospital - laboratory 200, sampling point 1. 10. 1,000 is planned. Block 850 - laboratory, assumption of capacity 1,000. Yes, so I don't have it calculated, so we're increasing it, and the total number of lab capacities is about 21,000. Now we have been approached by the Academy of Sciences and other academic institutions where we want to cooperate, and we are also increasing the sampling points. So yes, Prague hygiene is the most under pressure. We have a huge increase yesterday. In Prague, it's 500 of that high number. And, of course, I personally visited the county hygiene on Monday. I spent 80 minutes there. I saw the lady making the call. So we're prepping these systems to get labs to text people if they're positive or negative. He's getting ready to self-port. Not self-esteem so that someone doesn't feel like we can't track and that people will do it instead of the state. No. Self-porting. That means when someone gets a text that's positive, they open up an app, a form where they actually fill out the things they've been asked by the hygienist so far, okay? It's starting to work. It would be good for everyone to download it. That's another thing Dzurilla and his team have actually made. So we're doing our best for Prague, yes. Of course, there are the most hospitalized people here, of course we're preparing for a larger number, and if, of course, I said something on Sunday, I always say on the basis of numbers. And if you knew it would fall so much on Sunday, congratulations. No one here knew, not even epidemiologists, nor other colleagues, that the development, even the experts, were surprised. And we can ask why that is. Yes, but we were the only ones in Europe who were 1. 7. finished with the masks. The only ones. I mean, not the only ones, but we're done, and some states have never left the drapes. If this is a mistake, I don't know. I don't think that's important right now. The important thing is that we actually, and the Ministry of Health is to take measures to simply flatten the increase, but that's rising. You also need to see what the ratio of testing is. Sixty percent of people are indicated, and forty percent of people are self-payers who go without ordering. As many times as they come in, people say we're going to a bierfest in Munich, we want to test immediately. You're not booked. And so on. These are all the operational things that the smart quarantine team is doing, and I think it has concrete results. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u69	Thank you. Please, the Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u70	When it comes to testing, if I'm not mistaken, are we in the last third of Europe? We're certainly not at the top of the line, as sometimes argued. But I asked some very specific questions, and there was no answer at all. I asked if Prague would receive aids from the warehouse of the State Material Reserves, if they would be strengthened by the military, because, as you said yourself, Prague doesn't have a hospital in its gesture, so it's kind of hard to deal with this. And logically every metropolis in every one of those states where there's a covid around the world today, so there's the worst situation, because just those cities are aggregated, people meet more here, etc. etc. So I'd like some specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u71	Thank you. We've got less than a minute left. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u72	Prague gets aids. If Plaga hadn't broken his collarbone on his bike, we could have approved it yesterday at the government. But by changing the situation, of course, we have already approved the aids, other means for the disabled. Of course, and we've prepared for the aids, so each resort has two months' reserve for the county as well. [[16.00 hours]] And please, in the testing. Yes, I'm making a bad statement, so once again, the media has enjoyed me as much as we're testing, so I'm gonna read you how much we're testing: 15. 9. Czech Republic 15 998, Austria 13 100, Slovakia 3 235 - five times less, Hungary 8 653 and Poland 21 912 - four times as many - and do not even test twice - as we do. So I said that we are testing the most in Central Europe from these countries - Austria, Slovakia, Hungary - in the Czech Republic. I said it wrong, so, of course, the media, as always, enjoyed me. [[Attention on time.]] I don't mind, but it's true that in this space, that's why... I criticized the Slovák - [[President: I am so sorry, but according to the Rules of Procedure...]] I'm done. - they put us on red, but they're testing five times less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u73	We're gonna have to continue to interpel on the other members of the government. I'm handing over the meeting's management and we'll continue, as I said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u74	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. We'll continue by interpelling the members of the government. I will ask Mr Jan zahradník to give an oral interview to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Jakub Michálek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u75	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, I am addressing the Minister of Industry and Trade with the following question. According to my information, the SURAO Board approved the narrowing of the sites for the deep storage of nuclear waste to four sites. The locality Janoch, or ETE South near the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant in the South Bohemia Region, was also newly included. The government should make a final decision on this narrowing in the near future. This intention creates quite a lively discussion in South Bohemia. Minister, I ask you with the following questions: What are the reasons for including Janoch's locality in the selection? Are you aware that the locality of Janoch is not having an international discussion? Do you know, Minister, that there is still a valid resolution from the South Bohemia Representation, which refuses to build a repository in the region? And now one topic: Jihočech Bohemia has no representation in the SURAO Council, unlike Dukovan. I hereby ask you to appoint a representative from South Bohemia to the SORAO Council. And my last question: What about this special law, which should define the position of municipalities in the process of negotiating the repository and which is referred to in § 108 para. Two atomic laws? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u76	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. Yes, nuclear storage is a sensitive matter. It is true that most of those areas or locations where it was considered that waste could be stored are against it. It's 52 municipalities in the original nine-location version. At this point or at this point, it is now after that, there has been a rather careful and highly qualified survey of geophysical properties of individual sites, resulting in a proposal to narrow to four locations. The location you mentioned, Janoch, is among them, with the fact that it is now under the regime of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We're going to have another opponent do it because it's an important decision, and then I'm going to bring it to the government. I want the opponent to be very well done. We're going to want to see that there's been a selection of these locations, and this survey really went on professionally, transparently, and that the experts who were there actually chose the best possible process and procedure to select these four locations. The location of Janoch is there because it meets the very geophysical properties, it is a rock that could potentially be stored in sometime around 2060 - I note it is not only nuclear waste, but it is nuclear and industrial waste, sometimes there is a little distortion of the fact that it is only waste from nuclear power plants. I had a chance to meet Janoch's representatives recently, we had a video conference. I must say, she was very factual and very serious, constructive from my point of view. They were the mayors of the affected municipalities. We agreed on a further procedure, to inform the locals, we agreed on my personal participation in the meeting with the locals, we also agreed on how SURAO would be involved in the local communication. Yeah, well, I respect that no one's happy that it ended up being between the four locations. On the other hand, I would say that even their position is quite pragmatic, because if they have a nuclear power plant several kilometers apart, so it needs to be seen from the point of view that one day the nuclear power plant may not work, those people will need work, and if it is built there really first-class, very modern storage deep underground, let's say, professional laboratories, from that economic point of view it will be very interesting even an opportunity for work, not to mention that the landscape around it will be very then cultured etc. So there are different opinions about it, which must be respected. I didn't really decide that Janoch was among these locations, but they've been there for years. There are nine of them, as I'm sure you know. Janoch was just among them. And given that he was just pegged or proposed by the independent committee to the very finals, that means between the last four, so it's purely for professional and professional reasons. If there is any other problem that will, of course, be continuously evaluated, we will talk about it, but so far there is no indication that Janoch should be eliminated for other reasons, because the reasons for the expert analysis are absolutely clear and Janoch could actually be a location where it could be stored, but I repeat, there are three other locations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u78	Thank you. Is there an interest in the supplementary question by Mr Zahradník? I see you do. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u79	Thank you. You, Minister, answered me in a very indirect way. You weren't talking about whether you were aware of the valid resolution of the 2003 council. You weren't talking about whether you were aware of the absence of international negotiations. And you also haven't mentioned, unfortunately, whether or not you will answer my call to nominate someone from South Bohemia to the SURAO Council. I can add that it's not exactly that Janoch has been on that list for years. He's only been there recently, you put him there. That's why the reaction that's coming up here. And the petition already has 4,000 signatures. So I understand that if we want to have nuclear energy, we need to consider this alternative. Maybe he's known, I'm skeptical of the permanent storage of nuclear waste that could be nuclear fuel tomorrow. [[Nesroz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u80	So please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u81	Yes, no one is questioning that, because we still have decades before it starts to store, and in the meantime, science is simply evolving, technology is evolving, and it is not at all excluded that it can actually be used differently. However, we are in a situation today that we have to decide on the final location since 2025. Yes, I know there's a whole series of disagreements that there are petitions. In fact, there are petitions in every locality, and there are some locals who are against it, they have every right to do so. On the other hand, the petition, in principle, or the disapproval of the locals, does not exclude the possibility of being placed on the so-called short list, or the selected location. Likewise, if there is anything that doesn't match any international agreements, international law or anything, then, of course, it will have to be taken into account. But so far, we haven't discovered anything that would be the basis for Janoch's location being eliminated from all locations. On the contrary, from the geophysical point of view, it turned out to be very appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u82	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek, with an interview with Minister Adam Vojtěch on the Corona case, is next in line with the interview. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Minister if the figures presented today at the press conference are true, that, in this positive scenario, up to 3.6 million people are at risk, and what measures have been taken, so that... and what measures will be planned, so that this number is minimized. Especially if they already have a plan, so that they can speed up the time between the moment they learn that someone might have come into contact with the infected person and the moment when the person has a negative or positive test and possibly other measures are taken. I would also like to ask if he could explain to us why he did not convene this commission as President of the Central Epizoo Commission in the period from 5 May, which is what the Prime Minister here called a mistake. What were the reasons why it ceased to work on this platform, which is regulated by the pandemic plan. I would also like to ask if the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration asked for any possibility of an agreement so that 400 controllers who have the task of controlling the EET, which is not working today, which is therefore off, so if they could move on to more useful tasks such as tracing and the like. So these are basic questions. And of course, I'm very interested in this scenario of 3.6 million people who get sick, who have been labeled positive, what are the numbers of estimated patients, and if we are actually able to secure the hospital capacity for these cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u84	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u85	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Today we have presented some predictions, which we see on the basis of the current evolution of the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic, which, as I said today, is certainly not going well. That's just an objective fact. And especially yesterday's increase, which we are observing, indicates that we are actually heading towards a certain exponential spread of the disease and we need to introduce, and so we are introducing appropriate counterepidemiological measures. The scripts presented by Professor Dušek were of course different according to the development. Of course, no one can say exactly what the situation is going to be like today. It's mathematics, it's calculated on the basis of a reproductive number as this reproductive number is going to evolve. So, of course, let's think of it as some kind of modeling. It's not like it's definitely gonna be like that. It's some kind of development model. If we can reduce the reproductive number, if the anti-epidemiology measures really work and we flatten the so-called curve, I think the situation can even improve. We must also take into account that the number you are talking about is, of course, cumulative all the time. It is not that at one time such a number of people will be infected at one time. This means that at one point there would be such a large number of patients in hospitals. Of course, the patients are admitted, about ten days later they're released from custody. So we have to assume that this is a cumulative increase, not an increase that we would observe at one point. Right now, I'd rather focus on the view by the end of September, as we presented it. That's where the scripts were made clear, too. But what is essential and what I can really say is that it is really important for us now to prepare the capacity of hospitals. We have clear scenarios that Professor Černý presented today as head of the clinical group and the entire team working on it. The scenario that is currently taking place is that we are based on current capacities. There is no need to limit any capacity. If the situation were to develop adversely, of course we would have to reprofil beds, we would have to limit some collective care. These are all scenarios that we have of course prepared, and we are ready to work with them. But the capacity at this point is actually sufficient, and it is far from exhausted. We have presented that we really have capacity up to eight times the current number of patients, even those severely ill, with COVID-19 disease. So, of course, that's our absolute priority. With regard to the epidemiology commission, the Central Epidemiology Commission, why it has not been convened. Well, because at that time after May, the situation was very calm. We need to look at those dates where the daily increases were somewhere around ten, 20 times a day. In most regions there was zero growth or units of cases, so it did not make sense to act in this direction at the level of the Central Epidemiology Commission, where representatives of firefighters are representatives of police, army, i.e. integrated rescue system, other ministries. Indeed, the Central Epidemiology Commission is to discuss a situation that is serious from the point of view that it is touching the departments across, touching the integrated rescue system, firefighters, rescue services and so on. And such a situation was not really in the course of the summer, the situation was very calm. And now, given the situation over the last 14 days, on that increase, I have once again decided that the Central Epidemiology Commission is to convene and be convened regularly, on a regular basis. That's what I've been briefing my colleagues about today. So I don't think it's consistent with the reaction to the situation, and there's no point in meeting if the situation really was very calm. As far as the EET is concerned, I do not want to comment on this. But we made an agreement with the Customs Administration General, i.e. customs officers, who provided us with their employees who had already trained and entered the services of sanitary services yesterday, and will thus trace them. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u86	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Central Eagle Commission. I'd be based on the fact that we're all reading the media, we're all sort of orienting ourselves. Before the holidays, it was generally known and it was warned that another wave could come in autumn, or another wave, if we call it another wave, so I think everyone knew about it and should, if the state is to predict such a major event, which it should, should not only react backwards, reactively according to some current data, but should expect those trends that are. If we want to protect our citizens, we should have just prepared a solution for the fall. I wanted to ask if we currently have any data on the speed of the tracer from the moment the possibility of infection is detected, until the person is quarantined, according to the health stations. Basically the data we were asking about at the special point last night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u88	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u89	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I may add the introduction. It also needs to be said what the Central Epidemiology Commission is. The Central Epidemiology Commission, although that's what the name sounds like, is not an organ, and that needs to be explained, which would be composed of epidemiologists. It is not an organ that actually sets up anti-epidemiological measures and so on. The Central Epidemiology Commission is primarily composed of representatives of individual ministries, education, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, finance and so on. There's firemen, there's police and stuff. So it really is a platform that serves to share information rather than the Central Epidemiology Commission giving some direction in terms of protecting public health. This is in the competence of the health service, it is in the competence of the Chief Health Hygiene of the Ministry of Health. The Central Epidemiology Commission serves primarily to share information with other resorts, with components of the integrated rescue system. So let's not confuse that this is some kind of organ that actually sets up some kind of measure to prevent the spread of the epidemic. That's not really the case, and it doesn't match the composition. So much for why we've actually installed right now, based on the development of the situation, so that we can actually share the information with other colleagues, even with education, where we know that measures are being made where there is some development and so on. Although, of course, we also communicate outside the Central Epidemiology Commission. [[16.20 hours]] As for the tracking data, of course, I don't have them here. Otherwise they exist, the situation will vary within the regions. There is certainly another situation in Prague, another situation is needed in South Bohemia or in regions where there are not so many cases, but now I do not have the data available. The average time is somewhere around 72 hours, 48 to 72 hours until the person is contacted. [[Attention on time.]] But it can also be extended in some cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u90	Thank you. The next is Mrs Věra Kovářová, with an interview again to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Vojtěch, on the issue of lack of awareness of municipalities. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u91	Mr Minister, unfortunately, I must say that yesterday, during the speech at the item on the scrutiny of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1162, you did not please me. I felt like I was speaking Hungarian. In fact, if I had asked my questions about the information of the authorities in this difficult speech, I would not have been worse. Unfortunately, you haven't responded to the essentials at all. But yesterday's debate had one benefit. She showed that the problem of awareness of the number of infected people is not only the smallest municipalities, but also the municipalities with extended scope. You promised them regular information about the number of infected, as it turns out, it doesn't work very well, and the updated weekly updates are completely inadequate from my point of view. Dear Minister, I asked you a few questions yesterday without an answer. That's why I'm putting them back on the table for you. From a wide range of municipalities of the first and second types, i.e. those of smaller, not municipalities with extended scope, the requirements for the mayors to be informed about the number - not of names, but of the number of infected, the number of people in quarantine, and also to be informed in advance, at least at a minimum in advance, of what measures will be initiated or implemented. It's important for a number of reasons. In addition to the ones we write in the House press number 944, perhaps just because municipalities are sewer operators, which is not negligible in relation to coronavirus. This may be spicy, but with a practical example, I would end my performance and ask for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u92	Thank you for your time, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u93	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madame Lady, I said something here yesterday, but I will try to summarize now how the situation is currently going. The Ministry concluded a memorandum of cooperation with the Union of Towns and Municipalities concerning the transmission of statistical information on the infected and the current epidemiological situation. The mayors did not have this data comprehensively yet, the mayors of the municipalities with extended scope. The new data set includes a comprehensive overview of basic epidemiological parameters at the geographical levels of municipalities, i.e. with extended scope and districts and selected data at the level of individual municipalities. These are the number of persons diagnosed with COVID-19, the number of patients currently infected and hospitalized, even with a focus on elderly vulnerable populations, that is, in the age of 65+ and 75+ as we follow them. The source of the data is the Information System of Infectious Diseases, the so-called ISIN. The update of this data will take place every week, which means that from our point of view, as we have been approached by the Union of Cities and Municipalities, and eventually we can talk to the other one, the Association of Local Authorities, so we have ensured this. The contact person is designated by Professor Dušek for the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, so there is no problem to contact him. In addition, in cooperation with the Association of Towns and Municipalities with the Ministry of Health and with the UHIS, i.e. the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, a new shared web summary of information important to the mayors was also produced so that mayors of municipalities with extended scope could have access to it. I am aware of the parliamentary bill that amends the Public Health Act under the House press 977. However, from our point of view, this proposal really contains a number of pitfalls for which its implementation would be considerably limited in practice. From this draft law it is not clear what information and, in particular, to what extent the regional sanitary stations should be provided to municipalities and other self-governing bodies. From our point of view, there is also a real threat that not only anonymous information will be provided, but also, for example, the very specific personal data of persons who have been ill with infectious diseases, which could also lead to stigmatisation of these persons, especially from the residents of the municipality. We need to realise that even in the smaller municipalities, if it is indeed the smallest village where we can have dozens of inhabitants, so if there are four infected, some family, then the risk of identifying such a person is quite significant, and of course our main task must be to protect these people, because stigmatization of people infected with COVID-19 is quite significant and we have had quite negative experience with this in the past. Where, pursuant to the draft law, regional public health authorities are to inform the local authorities of the number of persons infected or located in quarantine or isolation, they should be determined in what relation to the local authority of the whole. For example, the aspect of permanent residence in the territory of the local authority concerned would be administratively simple. However, we have doubts as to the value of the information provided in this respect. On the contrary, it may be difficult to monitor the actual residence. Pursuant to the Public Health Protection Act, the health service provider shall report the infectious disease identified or suspected disease in a manner and to the extent provided for by the implementing legislation. In this legislation, infectious diseases are classified for reporting on the basis of symptoms, but it does not include those without symptoms ordered by quarantine under the Public Health Act. Therefore, real numbers of ordered quarantine measures may not be available to the sanitation station at all, because even a general practitioner can order quarantine. The above-mentioned draft law would further increase the relatively currently administratively burdened regional sanitation stations, i.e. the burden they are facing today, not only in relation to COVID-19 disease, but also other infectious diseases such as viral hepatitis, measles, influenza and so on. So for these reasons, I do not consider this solution to be entirely optimal and rather we want to go the way of the aforementioned memorandum with the Union of Cities and Municipalities. And I have no problem discussing further data provision with other representatives. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u94	The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, I will ask whether you are really considering changing the position of the Ministry of Finance on a proposal that would just provide information to really all municipalities, not just municipalities with extended scope, in whose case it works all sorts of ways. I say, however, that Mr Birke, who is also a representative of the ORP, said yesterday that he was personally willing to provide information to the A's and B's even though they are not supposed to spread. I really do not think that it should matter for the representatives of individual ORPs, and we should approach self-government in a non-discriminatory manner. And about the fact that you're saying it's okay if the information is provided directly, but if the mayor calls and receives the information, then the stigmatization doesn't happen? And getting an address, I don't think that's possible either. [[Time warning.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u96	Is the Minister interested in an answer? So I give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am offering to the Member who represents the Authority, if necessary, to meet with Professor Dušek as Director of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, and we can look for a common solution to the transfer of information so that, of course, we can protect the identity of patients and possibly provide some additional information. So maybe let's meet with the UZUS and maybe we'll find a way out, I hope.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u98	Thank you. Next is Mr Leo Luzar with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček on the matter of information on OKD. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u99	Mr President, Minister, I will try to be very short. It's been three or four weeks since the heart of the Moravian-Silesian region stopped. The Prime Minister spoke in the media about OKD ending next year. This information, of course, triggered a turbulent reaction because it was given only as individual information without any context. These connections are quite serious because the black coal produced by OKD is dependent not only on companies that take away both coal and coke from them, i.e. continue to explode, but of course also the inhabitants of the Moravian-Silesian region, i.e. those who are supplied with heat from coal sources. Which, for the record, is 70 percent of the population. Of course, this information affected everyone and no one had the details and did not know the exact information. Over time, the information is getting, but it's pretty hard. Therefore, my request to the Minister is for some information flow to be created, some information direction that will be clear, to whom the representation of the region or interest groups in the region should be addressed, or, for example, the Chamber of Commerce, or someone in this sense that represents the interests of both the industry and citizens of the Moravian-Silesian Region, as well as, of course, the interests of the Ministry and Government in order that the maximum information on this matter should be. The coal age is probably really ending, but we need to be prepared for this not to be a simple transition, and we should provide maximum information to all those concerned. Because there's nothing worse than that information turning into misinformation when the misinformation then lives its own life, and we get into big problems, both politicians and citizens, how to respond to it and how to evaluate it. So I would welcome this initiative here from your side to determine, or decide, what form of communication this will take, and I think that the Chamber of Commerce could play this role here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u100	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u101	Well, have a good afternoon again. Thank you for asking, it's a very important activity, a thing. Because it is true that the time of coal, as you said, is really coming to an end. The question is how many years or how long it will last. But the fact is that OKD is not guilty of its own, but by objective facts it gets into major problems. The decline in coal is more than 30 percent year-on-year and the decline in demand. This is based on both logically and increasing pressure on the costs associated with emission allowances. And, of course, the time of covid, which in OKD simply did not contribute to the situation, resulting in the loss of society. We are in a situation where the State, as owner, cannot support it completely immediately, because it would be illegal from the European Union's point of view. So there's a lot of scripts in play. On Monday, there will be very important material on the government when it will be discussed, or immediately thereafter, I will inform Mrs Schillerová, together with the Deputy Prime Minister, in very detailed detail about what the next step will be. The variant that is currently in play, which is proposed - we will see if the government will accept it - is the option that would be at 1. 1. 2021 mines already dampened today, which is Tutlum - South and Tutlum - North, including related spaces and so on, spaces Older, Trojanovice, Petřvald and so on, handed over to Diamo, which is therefore a company under MPO, which will then bail out and reclamation. There's no problem, the mines are already down. The key is that to 1. 3. 2021 is proposed, I still say, when the dampened mines of Darkov and ČSA would be transferred under Diamo. At the same time, the material states that the remaining activity, that is, the mines of ČSM - North and South would still go, so it would be a gradual downturn. And on request of OKD management - it is not yet specified when - they would also be transferred at a certain time. However, it is not written anywhere, if it will be in 2022, 2023, 2024. This will largely depend on how the economy develops, the price of coal, and so on. Basically, it would mean if this variant were to occur, that would be to 1. 1. he had to deal with the departure of 550 employees and with 1. 3rd order of 1,400 employees. Ad 1 on the basis of a collective agreement, which is up to 12 times the monthly salary of a severance grant and a special state contribution of either five or eight thousand per month for a period of several years for each worker. At the same time, we are going there with Diamo very much, let's say, to create space and space for - I don't want to say directly to the agency of work, but it is not far - for professional communication with everyone involved. At the same time, we welcome the offer, we will communicate with the Chamber of Commerce, which is very active in this place, and, of course, we are engaging all the elements of the public sphere in order to be able to either place those workers, if, of course, they want to continue to work somewhere, because it must be said that many of them are already at retirement age and will be a natural transition. Many of these workers, and it is several hundred workers who work in these mines, but remain there and will participate under Diamo in bailouts, after-mining, reclamation and all that is related to it. So we see it as a significant activity. It will cost us this activity, it must be said, in the following years 15.5 billion crowns. This means that the state took over for a reason that we all know about - because in the past OKD was literally and to the letter rendered, the situation was critical. If the state hadn't stepped in, the OKD wouldn't be working anymore. However, the state took on not only the burden of having to pay significant costs there today, and only these days it allocates an additional CZK 1.8 billion for operation, but at the same time it takes on bailouts and reclamation, for which of course there is no money. So it will cost another 15.5 billion crowns in the following years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u102	Thank you. We will proceed to another interpelation, which is the interpelling of Mr Lukáš Bartoň to the absent Minister Robert Plaga on the 27 - inquiry into the disabled. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u103	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you to Decree 27/2016 Collections dealing with the education of pupils with special educational needs and pupils of talent. In your proposed amendment to this decree, there are changes that are quite drastic. They concern the support of teachers' assistants. To support the teaching assistant, pupils with physical disabilities, chronic diseases, serious speech defects and serious specific learning disorders lose their new entitlement. The teacher's assistant will also lose primary art schools, higher vocational schools. Furthermore, according to the decree, pupils with mental and physical disabilities, autism and serious behavioral disorders lose regular support provided by a special teacher. I've been studying the decree, and the RIA report doesn't say how much you want to save, because the only motivation I can think of is why you would do this is that you want to save money on these students. That's why I'm asking you how much you want to save on these students. My guess, when I've counted thousands of teaching assistants, I've got over a billion. I would like to know your expert opinion on how much the state wants to save on pupils with special educational needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u104	Thank you. Since the Minister is excused and is not present, he will be answered in writing. The next is Mrs Pavla Golasowská with an interview with the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch on the lack of dentists. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the situation with the lack of dentists is disastrous and more and more people are having trouble finding their dentist, because theirs has retired or moved away, or died and new dentists are simply not. You may have noticed a few days ago in the press that said about a hundred-foot front in Ostrava-Lhotka, where people waited long hours to register for a new dentist. And that is the reality not only in the north of Moravia. Health insurance companies don't know much about the situation. Dentists just aren't. They advise people to use doctors in the border areas of Poland or Slovakia. People haven't been able to find a dentist for years, and they're overloading the E.R. for treatment. Dear Minister, I ask you what specific steps you will take to ensure the necessary number of dentists. I know the assignment is for many years. And second, what do you advise people who, despite their hard efforts to find a dentist, are failing? I'd just like to point out that there's been more of these abortions about the lack of dentists before. They were presented by a colleague of mine, Vít Kaňkovský. And I have information that a similar situation with a lack of doctors is beginning to be similar in the fields of practitioners and in the fields of children's doctors and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u106	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u107	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, I am pleased that this is a non-committal topic in the intercessions, and very important, without a doubt, because you know and you are right that the interpelations were here. The fact is that ensuring local and temporal availability of health services is one of the priorities with which I went to the Ministry of Health, although we do not always have it in our hands, because it is a lot of responsibility for health insurance companies, with which we communicate about this, of course. I think that we are not talking about an absolute shortage, whether it is dentists or doctors in primary care, but rather about unbalanced availability within regions in the Czech Republic. Yes, it may also be due to a lack of doctors, but rather it is a question of age structure and mainly, and it is simply a fact with which we try to do something very intensely, the attractiveness of some areas for dentists or even practical doctors, even young people who actually go into practice. We are currently registering complaints from citizens who are turning to us. We have prepared a special form for this as well, which is available on our website, which we launched in September 2019. Anyone who is looking for a doctor, medical services, or, of course, dentists, can contact us through this form. Among other things, out of the total number so far 1 035 complaints about the availability of care are 894 complaints about the availability of health care in the field of dentistry. This also indicates that this is a very significant problem. Most of it in the Moravian-Silesian region, when we look at statistics at least as we record them in complaints. And that's why I'm saying it's a question of some balance or imbalance, because in the Moravian-Silesian region, the complaints are the most - 290. There are regions where we record 26, 30 complaints, for example in Prague only 13. So I really think it's a question of Prague versus some localities like the Moravian-Silesian Region. But I certainly don't want to downplay and downgrade it. We are really trying to do our utmost to get young doctors in the countryside and remote regions, not only in the field of dentistry, as I have mentioned. Primarily, of course, it is a role and by law the obligation of the health insurance undertaking to obtain and ensure that the insured persons have local and temporal availability of paid health services. And health insurance companies in this are also working on some contract policy, the bonding of doctors who decide to go to less attractive locations. On the other hand, we know, and we have this verified from our control, that often a health insurance company actually repeatedly publishes a tender and simply is not successful, is not able to get anyone to this place or a certain place within the framework of the need for dentistry. Unfortunately, that is an objective fact. As regards the general issue of the availability of health care in certain areas and areas, we are working with health insurance companies, as I have mentioned, in terms of some kind of boniification. There are also subsidy programmes concerning areas with limited availability of health services. We are currently working, and it is still going on - the issue of subsidies relating to the creation of a new dentist's office or even practical doctors. Those terms are published. And it seems that interest is quite good. Now I don't have the exact numbers, I'll deliver. But we have really opened up dozens of practice within the Republic. This is conditional on the doctor undertaking to register a certain number of insured persons, to stay in the area for at least five years and to have contracts with health insurance companies. And that's quite a problem, because some doctors simply don't want to treat the insurance company, even though we have significantly increased payments in the area of dentistry. What is very important is the age structure. We were the first to increase the medical faculty capacity by about 20 percent. Yes, this will only be reflected at a certain distance. But it was a key step - to increase the capacity of medical faculties so that we could have more graduates. So I believe that the situation will develop more positively in the future, but it is not always quite easy to get a doctor into less attractive locations. But believe me, we're doing our best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u108	Thank you. There's an interest in the supplementary question, so I'll ask you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u109	Minister, I'd like to, or the hundreds of people who haven't been able to find a dentist for months, even if they call on dentists in the area, what to tell them what to do now. Because, as I've been doing here in the interpellation, those people, in acute cases, are overloading the E.R., and it's not always for them to find the E.R. So what I'm expecting from you right now is a practical answer for these people right now to signal them what these people are supposed to be doing specifically when they just can't get the dentist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u110	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u111	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I mentioned, the primary thing that they should do and what, of course, is the responsibility of their health insurance company is just to turn to their health insurance company, which has a duty to provide for them somehow. This is the only thing they can do, of course, if they can't use any other workplaces, for example, within an emergency in a hospital facility and so on. But if they're not really able to find it, and it doesn't matter if it's a dentist or any other health service, another expertise, whether they turn to a health insurance company that's required to provide them with that care, maybe even somewhere far away, but it simply has that obligation. We are trying to control health insurance in this regard. Alternatively, they can actually use the form we have on our site. It's a page not available.mzcr.cz and there they can actually fill out their complaint about inaccessibility. And then we control this in cooperation with health insurance companies. That's, let's say, the practical question, if anyone really can't find a doctor, so it's either necessary to deal with the health insurance company directly or through our web form.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u112	Thank you. Next is Mr. Jan Čižinský with an interview to the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek on the monument protection of the railway bridge in Prague. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u113	Dear Minister, I am addressing you in the matter of the railway bridge in Prague between Výtní and Smíchov. This property is part of the Prague Monument Reserve. It is inherently connected with the Prague panorama and is one of the important buildings of Czech engineering and bridgemaking. I appreciate it, and it's not a phrase that you stood up in March to preserve its conservation. The bridge must be subjected to complete reconstruction. It is possible only with complete bridge change, it is the lower part, but riveted arc parts can be reconstructed according to experts with a guarantee of safe operation for up to 80 years. [[16.50 hours]] However, I learned that only maintaining the panorama will be sufficient at the Ministry of Culture, and the steel structure can be replaced by a new, probably welded. This will destroy the original value of the bridge as a proof of the former level of Czech engineering. Moreover, the original form of panorama will not be preserved, because the welded structure will no longer be as subtle as the construction produced by welding at the moment. - I'm sorry, it won't be as subtle as the construction of history. At the heart of Prague, we would have built something like a cheap Chinese copy. However, Prague has already spent about 30 million on the reconstruction of the original riveted bridges on the bridge. It has clearly shown that such structures can be repaired. The traps are, of course, a simpler structure, but expert reports confirm that even riveted arches of bridges can be reconstructed in this way. On the contrary, the bridge can be replaced with modern, fulfilling the demands of modern railway traffic. I ask you to state whether the Ministry of Culture will require the preservation of riveted arches and not be satisfied only with maintaining the outlines of the bridge. The opposite attitude would be a signal for all private owners that their monument-protected buildings can be left to waste and then it will be sufficient to preserve their contours, which would lead to the destruction of all their values.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u114	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u115	Hello, thank you for the interview. I'd be happy to answer that. In fact, it says in the interview that the Ministry of Culture is issuing some signals or signs and opinions that express how the bridge between Výtní and Smíchov could or should not look. So to begin with, I have to say that no such signals can not only be given, nor can the Ministry of Culture issue at this time, and I will explain why. What is clear now is what you, Mr Member, mentioned that we actually gave an opinion in March where we confirmed that the Vytoň bridge is a cultural monument, and we probably have quite a clear consensus that this is the result that I, too, maybe, think that the bridge is irreplaceable in the panorama of Prague. And I completely understand that there's a certain sense of identity attached to him, like that place, and that he deserves this protection. I'm perfectly aware of that. And we confirmed it with this position. As far as the next development around the bridge is concerned, it is obvious that the right of the current owner to declare an architectural contest. That's just something no one can question. Railway management can announce competition if it considers it useful and appropriate now. The architectural competition will somehow end and the result and its possible implementation will be expressed by the Department of Monument Care of the City of Prague. So that's actually the institution that's going to judge the extent to which it's actually lived up to the fact that the conservation has been observed in the architectural solution. Only if someone calls back or if there is dissatisfaction with the solution, then the Ministry of Culture can enter, because we can, the Ministry of Culture will be able to appeal if there is a reason. And even if the Ministry of Culture gave an opinion, it could also be appealed against, and then I would become the last appeal point, and there would be some decay committee on the basis of which I could possibly correct the outcome of the proceedings. And unfortunately, I have to draw attention to what I do often. The moment we're the appeal point, or even the moment I could become the appeal point myself, I actually can't give any opinions. And I don't think the Ministry of Culture either. Therefore, what I am saying is that it cannot and must not at this time give opinions on how it would have been done in this or that variant. It is precisely because it may come at a time when it will have to judge impartially to what extent it has been observed that we have declared it a cultural monument. So it might happen to me in some version, which is why I don't think I can express myself and now say my opinion on what I think about the riveted bridge. Of course, you said it like we could use a welded bridge or something. There's one thing I want to assure you that we're good at, and I'm sure I'm good at it, and if it comes to that, and we're supposed to comment on it, I'm sure it's gonna be about keeping maximum values. That's the point of the conservation. And, of course, I realize that it is also necessary to maintain safety during transport from Výtina to Smíchov and back. That means, we have to respect that it's a technical thing, and it requires, let's say that it works technically. And within that, we need to maintain maximum conservation. Absolutely, I just can't say the position. But only in that general form can I say what I would hold on to, the basic principles, if I had to decide. And I don't think you can take any position that has been heard somewhere at this point, as something that someone should follow. We will be fulfilling the general principles that we held when we gave the decision on the Výton bridge in March. And I can only guarantee that, as a valuable cultural memory, I will look at it, even if it happens that this solution would come to me or the Ministry. And that's what I can promise you. And I'm sure I want to make sure there's no devaluation and some kind of... There's no need to suspect that, because that's not how we've been before. The prices of the highland bridge in terms of that value, I think we're aware of that enough. So it's hard for me to tell you completely, and I can't dement something that I don't think the Ministry of Culture should have said anywhere because that's not his place right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u116	The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u117	Thank you for the reaction. I'm not going to mine the answer here, because I understand that if someone is an appeal body, it would be wrong to say from the point of view of administrative procedure here. Nevertheless, I consider it important what has been said here and that it is actually standing at the level of March that the bridge is valuable. And it's actually a good thing that it sounds public here, that the bridge is repairable, that technically it can be done because it's just a signal how the bridge, which really is a symbol for the Pražan, and not just for the Pražan, is how to save the bridge in the form that really demonstrates the amazing level of Czech engineering, because the bridge hasn't been touched for years, and yet the construction is repairable, as it is unfortunately also for some other bridges. So I'm going to keep the hope that something I would call a cheap Chinese copy isn't coming out, and that we're going to save the bridge together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u118	Thank you. We will proceed to another interview, which is the interview of Petr Třešňák to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch on proposals and comments on the corona pandemic that we have not been answered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u119	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, I completely accept the busyness of your department and of you in particular during this period, and I really understand that the Ministry of Health is not the Ministry of Covide, as some may think recently, and the important agenda is a very broad spectrum. However, decision-making on measures to combat the coronavirus pandemic must be supported by data, but as opposition, we often do not have the opportunity to participate in expert groups at the Ministry, so we repeatedly send you our questions in writing, regardless of form, whether it is interpelation, requests under Act 106 or simply letters or open letters. However, the answer is often very inadequate in terms of content or, in fact, the legal obligation for the deadline for the reply is not fulfilled. Therefore, my question is: How will the Ministry build on its information duty in the future? And here I will mention that this is not only a request for information, but above all a variety of constructive initiatives of the opposition. I have here a list of about three open letters, one application under Law 106. In addition, the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 4. 6. Reminds you that you have a duty to all Members, not just to those of government. I also allow myself to use the space of this interpelation and to raise further related questions, respectively. how you work with MPSV on the problem of disability for COVID respectful patients, where there are now many questions raised by employees and employers. I'll try to sum it up quickly, then I'll fill it in. The employee is contacted by KHS, has to undergo positive tests, does not take the shift and then calls his intern, but he only writes a request for tests, but not the failure itself, because the certificate of incapacity for work due to quarantine is issued only after it is clear that there is a positive test for COVID-19. Did I make it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u120	Exactly. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, then, honourable Member, I answer the questions that have also been raised in the written form, and I apologise if something has not been answered, but the time is quite difficult indeed. We try to answer a number of requests not only for Members, but also for Law No. 106. There really were dozens of them for the covid period, maybe hundreds of them, so we're really trying to answer the most, but maybe sometimes we can't quite do it at that time. These questions concerned the delay between the results and the information tested on COVID-19. Here it was solved by the extraordinary measure of the Ministry of Health, which is effective from today, when the laboratories will communicate the results to tested persons and positive results by means of SMS, by e-mail, so this should significantly shorten the information flow so that one learns that it is positive and that it should be self-insulated until it is contacted by the appropriate sanitation station. As regards the reimbursement of tests covered by public health insurance, the remuneration is fixed. a compensatory decree, which is effective from 1. 7. in which the procedures related to testing for COVID-19 are excluded from regulatory restrictions, which is also very important for practitioners, that they do not have to worry about indicating patients for tests because it does not include them in any regulations, so they can indicate as much as they need. The provider will therefore be paid for all performances performed. There's no regulation on the part of a health insurance company. These performances are therefore paid from health insurance if indicated by a doctor or also a sanitary station of course. And the price of the test fully covers the costs of testing. In the case of self-paying tests, price regulation is set in such a way that the regulated price covers the costs of testing for tests covered by insurance, so that in our opinion the financial motivation is sufficient for the self-paying tests. As regards the confluence of seasonal respiratory diseases COVID-19, the problem, of course, is this co-operation, which we are very intensively dealing with at the meeting of the clinical, epidemiological working group of the Ministry. In cooperation with practical doctors, the methodology for providing care was prepared, taking into account the problem being commented on. This methodology clearly addresses how a certain triage of a patient with respiratory disease is to take place. The recommendations relating to the co-operation will also be published on the website of the Ministry and the State Institute of Health. As regards support for teams in their research activities in connection with COVID-19 disease, the Ministry of Health is of course interested in supporting Czech, not only Czech, but of course specifically Czech teams. Special support for this research was also recommended by the Scientific Council of the Ministry of Health at its May meeting. On the other hand, we must respect the legal framework laid down in Law No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds, which states that the Ministry of Health can only support research activities through institutional support to research organisations or through special-purpose support, i.e. by announcing public competitions. In general, the discussion of the "risk factors problem" of the absence of social contact is undoubtedly a risk factor, compared to, for example, smoking the argument in the context of the query can be considered rather purposeful than factual. On the individual level of biomedical this argument cannot be fully argued. From my point of view, first of all, it is crucial to clarify with the policy what is more important from the point of view of controlling the existing epidemiological situation, whether the interest of society and the protection of public health, or the interest of the individual. As for the question that you mentioned and concerns eIncompetents, here I know I may not have the detail you have, but indeed the incompetent - even if it is not in our hope - should be issued not only to those who are, of course, COVID positive, but also to those who are quarantined as contacts, and this quarantine is mandatory for them. But if there's a problem, I'll be happy for a bigger detail and I'll definitely deal with it. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u122	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u123	It will really be brief on the supplementary question and, if necessary, I will try to describe in person what was coming to us for our emails and experience from practice. The real point was that if the employee is stratified, he stays at home, he is not exposed to an incapacity for quarantine, specifically those cases were found, which means that the employee does not have an incapacity to work, he is not officially in quarantine unless he has been confirmed positive and therefore cannot bring a note to the employer. If that's not the case, I'm sorry, but we've actually received such suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u124	Thank you. Next is Mr Patrik Nacher with an interpelling to the Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček on the matter of interest in the functioning Police of the Czech Republic and the protection of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic from fraudulent scum business. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, nice afternoon or early evening, I'm here again with an interview on the scum business that moved from selling pots to magazine pages, it's the commercials. He met with the year for a year. On September 29th, 2019 I intersected the present Minister of Health in that area of scum business, these are the various ads for miracle drugs for high pressure, improvement of vision, permanent erections and so on, such complete nonsense. The Minister's answer was that the Ministry's hands are tied in this, because since it's not medicine, neither the Ministry nor the SÚKL can intervene. The result of this interpelation is a proposal for a change, an amendment that has been drafted together with the Ministry of Health, which will be able to deal with things that are not like drugs, but like drugs. And today, after a year, I'd like to intersect the Home Secretary, Jan Hamáček, who, in the area of those scumbag ads, has been constantly attacking people's emotions and haunting them and so on, where only Zbyněk Prousek, who has been doing this for the last six years, has filed some 58 criminal charges. So the question is quite simple - what is the Police of the Czech Republic doing in that area? There is also a consumer protection law here. There's a consumer offence. From the data we got from the Justice Department, only eight people have been prosecuted in the last three years. [[Attention on time.]] So the interpelation is directed at Minister Hamáček, and by not being here... [[He's here.]] He's here, I'm sorry. I'll walk with him. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u126	Mr. Home Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u127	Thank you. I apologise to the honourable Member for having misled him because I was sitting in a different place than usual. Anyway, the question of the so-called. Assholes are involved in fraud, it is a long-term social problem in which people's trust is abused by cheaters who offer goods that are supposed to have miraculous qualities, but are often poor quality in themselves, but always overpriced. Services are also offered. It must be said that the Police of the Czech Republic do not follow the issue so called. Bastards. As a rule, the conduct of the perpetrators fulfils the characteristics of the facts of the fraud, according to the intensity of the conduct of the perpetrators, the fulfilment of the facts of other offences, such as oppression, extortion and so on can also be seen. The target of the attack is mostly seniors who are trusting and easily succumb to persuasion. From a general point of view, the attempt to address this issue by amending laws, in particular the Civil Code, is an adjustment on the validity of contracts, the possibility of their termination and so on. The problem is the conclusion of telephone contracts and the resolution of their subsequent invalidity. [[17.10 hours]] For the police, it can be said that every such case of fraudulent conduct is dealt with individually and there is close cooperation with the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, which publishes on its website a list of suspicious subjects that it warns against. We are prepared as the Ministry of the Interior to participate in the relevant changes to the laws. If, Mr President, you have a particular case, then of course I am able to explain in writing exactly what the police were doing and how they were doing, but without knowing the detailed case, I cannot possibly answer more widely than I have answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u128	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question or comment? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u129	Thank you. I'll hand over some of the documents to the Minister. Yes, the problem there, of course, is that it is not a classic business activity, but from the beginning it is a fraudulent act in the sense that there is a thing that does not have the parameters by which it is described. In addition, information is abused, say, from a medical environment, performed by fictional professors, etc., scared people then buy completely senseless glasses for some CZK 790, after a discount of CZK 490 to improve your vision by 300 percent on the basis of some military technology or something, and it's junk. These cases often come from those bastards who live around Mělník. I also have here a list of the magazines in which these ads appear permanently, there are a number of submissions. So, as I've contacted the Minister of Health, I've dealt with the Minister of Justice, so I'll pass on the information to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u130	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Lukáš Černohorský with an interview to Minister Klára Dostálová, who is absent and excused. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u131	Thank you for the floor. My question to the Minister is: what funds were used from the budget to promote the Facebook page and other pages that the Minister has on social networks, i.e. How much money was put into this? I will ask, if necessary, for the distribution of the total costs for the entire period when she is in the capacity of the Minister, and then, of course, for the period of how much has been invested since the regional council elections were announced. And so, eventually, what were the costs of creating a video that was promoted by the new building law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u132	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. Mrs Monika Jarošová, with an interview on Mr. absent apologized Minister Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u133	Hello. Dear Minister, once again this year we could see how the municipal and municipal authorities order grass cutting, in some cases up to the hunting of the crops. Grass crops are often ground up into the dirt, grass is virtually unable to regenerate. I also pointed out this fact last year at the municipal council in my permanent residence. My opinion is to do the mowing of grass as carefully as possible. It doesn't mean not to mow at all, but to choose places where to mow more often, e.g. children's playgrounds, and places where it can be limited to twice a year, and do not mow too low, e.g. surrounding roads, border fields and grass outside children's playgrounds. Surely we are aware that grass is one of the elements of the retention of moisture vapours from the soil and is home to lots of beetles and butterflies. Minister, what is your opinion on frequent mowing of grass? What steps does the Ministry want to take in this area? I'm wondering if you're planning to make any recommendations for cities and municipalities. Unfortunately, I have also met with the fact that I have heard arguments that when grass is dried up, it doesn't have to mow so often, and that seems sad to me. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u134	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. The next in line is Mr František Kopřiva with an interview with the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, on the Moria case - how do we help Greece? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, as I'm sure you know, on the night of September 9th to 10th, a large fire destroyed the refugee camp Moria on the Greek island of Lesbos. The camp was a temporary refuge for about 13,000 people on the run, even though it had capacity of about a quarter. According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the fire has deprived most, about 12,000 people, including about 2,200 women and more than 4,000 children, of which at least 407 children are unaccompanied. They were temporarily evacuated to the mainland, but there is no living standard in refugee camps much better, Greece has a long-term problem of ensuring adequate conditions in those camps and has asked European partners for help several times. It is certainly in the interests of the children and of Greece and our own conscience to provide these unaccompanied minors with safe shelter, basic care and, if possible, some perspective. Although other states are facing a second wave of pandemics, ten European countries have already promised to divide and accept children without an escort. By the way, Germany has decided to accept shockingly more than 1,500 people affected by this fire, not only children. The Czech Ministry of the Interior does not deal with the situation in the long term, and even this time I did not notice any indication of solidarity on our part, yet it is enough to proactively ask the Greek party for a list. So I want to ask if the Home Office is going to help unaccompanied children and the Greek side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u136	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u137	Thank you. Dear Member, I want to assure you that the Czech Republic is monitoring the situation in Greece and immediately after a deliberate fire occurred at the Moria camp, respectively. The Czech Republic immediately offered assistance to a series of deliberately based fires in the Moria camp, which was destroyed by this more or less. We have approved financial assistance of EUR 100,000, which is CZK 2.6 million, from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and are prepared to provide, in agreement with the Greek party, material or material assistance according to the requirements of the Greek government, which is trying to reconstruct the camp. It's not the only help to Greece this year. We have helped several times, whether it is helping to protect external borders, whether it is support from the Help on site program or MEDEVAC. The total amount of aid from the Czech Republic towards Greece is about CZK 30 million this year. Moreover, on 3 September we offered Greece the possible deployment of the rapid deployment of the Police of the Czech Republic to protect the Greek-Turkish border. From my point of view, this aid is significant and sufficient for the Greek side. The Czech Republic does not plan any relocation to the Czech Republic of illegal migrants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u138	Thank you for your answer. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u139	Thank you. And surely the Greek side is grateful for the financial and material assistance, but I fear that the rapid deployment unit will not be building those shelters, and it will certainly take some time. Unfortunately, he's not gonna build a roof over his head from day to day with that money. I am even more sorry that in many countries that have offered to directly relocate and thus directly help those children, social democracy will co-rule and I would expect that in the Czech government, the ČSSD will act as the element that will act constructively. I would just like to point out that officials decide whether an immigrant is legal or illegal, or whether he has the right to asylum or supplementary protection. And it's not the adoption of these children permanently, but of course, until he decides what to do next. But I understand that there is no will in the Czech government to help those children directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u140	Thank you. Next, Mr Ondřej Babka, with an interview with Minister Miroslav Toman, who is absent, excused and will be answered in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister of Agriculture, allow me to interpel you on the matter of the protection of game in hawk. On 12 September 2019, the Sub-Committee on the Conservation of Nature and Landscapes, of which I am a member, agreed and recommended to the Committee on the Environment, to call on the Ministry of Agriculture to draw up a subsidy programme to support the use of drones with thermovisions for the search for deer and other game during mowing and harvesting, thus taking into account the need for the protection of game in the seči as part of the preparation of the rural development programme. This issue was approved by the Committee on the Environment on 13 November 2019, i.e. more than ten calendars a month ago. So let me ask you how the Ministry of Agriculture has progressed in this matter and what real steps have been taken on the issue, or how you want to effectively protect tens of thousands of animals during harvesting and harvesting. Thank you very much for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u142	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. The next is Mr Jan Čižinský with an interview to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Mr Čižinský is not present, so his interpellation is failing. We will move on to interpel Mr Lukáš Černohorský to Mr Minister Jan Hamáček on the absence of direct database access to the register of parties, etc. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u143	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, we have received information from the Audit Committee that the Office for the Management of Political Parties does not therefore have direct database access to the register of parties and movements operated by the Ministry of the Interior, but this has certain problems. In the event that it is necessary to contact the institution, this is normally done through a statutory body, which is a chair, but there, in the meantime, when data are transmitted as if manually added, there is no online update, you can make various changes, and therefore there are either certain delays on the part of the Office, or there are certain financial costs for them. So I wanted to ask if you're planning some kind of direct database connection for the future, and if so, when they can expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u144	Thank you. I'll ask the Home Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u145	Thank you. Dear Member, as you know, under Section 9 of Law No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and political movements, the Ministry of the Interior maintains a register of political parties and movements. This register is public and accessible to everyone on the Ministry of the Interior's website. I printed the corresponding website here. [[He's pointing.]] And the law in Section 9 para. 2 and 3 specify exactly what data are kept in that register and all these data are accessible to all through these mentioned pages of the Ministry of Interior. Just so you know, the last update was 17. 9:00 p.m. 49 seconds. We are now working on a partial digitization of the Charter Collection, when the statutes and some resolutions of political parties and movements are digitized, so that they can also be made available online. On the basis of an agreement with the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Movements, the Ministry of Interior has submitted to this Office since 2018, any change that has been made in that register, without delay through the data box system, that is to say electronically, and this practice has not yet been questioned by the Office, or has been repeatedly confirmed. So the Bureau, like everyone else, has online access to this register, and beyond that, after agreement, gets a notification of every change that the Ministry has made in that register. So from my point of view, the practice is sufficient. If the Bureau has a different feeling, I'd expect it to officially turn us around, and of course we'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u146	Thank you. The MP has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u147	I assume it's some kind of automation interface that would arrange that if you got a message coming into your data box, then you have to process it on the side of that office in some manual way. So if you're not planning some kind of interface that you're going to connect their information system, and they're going to generate some documents calling for the party to do some action that they haven't delivered a message or anything, so that they automatically pull it into the document without actually having to run their own secondary information system. So whether it is possible to build a communication interface there or not. I suppose at that point, it would save you a lot of work, because you wouldn't have to manually send it through data boxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u148	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u149	I understand that. I'll give it to the relevant sections at the Home Office, and I'm ready to inform you of the outcome. I understand where this interpelation is going, and it would be simplified, so thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u150	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs. Pavla Golasowská with an interview with Minister Robert Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u151	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I wish you an early recovery and I add to the interview that has already been made here, and whether it is true that the Ministry of Education is preparing a decree that would make children with disabilities and children with learning disabilities lose their assistants. She should be paying from the beginning of next year. According to the Czech Professional Society for Inclusive Education and Teacher Platforms, pupils with physical disabilities, chronic diseases, serious speech defects and serious learning disabilities who now use and benefit from the teaching assistant would thus remain excluded. Dear Minister, it is not long before we in the House of Deputies discussed the inclusion of children with disabilities in the educational process, and that it is necessary for them to be included in the educational process among healthy children. This has also happened and, with the support of the bill on inclusion, people have also begun to educate themselves as assistants to help these children. If your decree comes into force, it means that not only will a number of teaching assistants lose their jobs, but especially children who need assistance will lose their help. The parents of these children are appalled and rightly afraid that they will be forced to put their children back in special schools. Dear Minister, I ask whether you are aware of this fact and how you will address a situation where a student with a disability will not be able to function properly without an assistant teacher. I want to believe that this is not an austerity measure and that you do not want to spare on the most vulnerable children with disabilities are. Or is that the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u152	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. Next in line is Mrs Monika Jarošová, with an interview with Minister Richard Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u153	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I want to ask you about the food on the Ohře river in Hostělice u Brozan na Litoměřicku, which threatens the construction of a small hydro power plant from the private investor KM Pron. In its decision, the Regional Authority of the Ústí Region authorised an exemption from the basic protection conditions of specially protected animals pursuant to § 50 and authorised the construction of the power plant. After the protest of the citizens, your Ministry of the Environment has dealt with this, which has annulled the decision of the Regional Authority, and you are asking for it to reconsider its position. The Regional Authority has once again approved the construction of the power plant and citizens appeal and it is still over and over again. The citizens here want and fight to preserve the lake in its present form, they do not agree with the construction of the power plant. Whoever's local knows what an irreplaceable loss that would be. It's a popular recreation zone. Thousands of cyclists and water lovers from the surrounding area gather to this historically valued lake during the season. It also serves dozens of chalet owners on both shores of Ohra, but also watermen, fishermen and holiday campers on the opposite shore in Pista. The territorial plan envisages a recreation zone in this location, not a hydropower plant. The inhabitants are not only concerned with the intervention of the Jeez, but also about the construction itself, where there is no communication suitable for mechanization and there is a high dustiness. Minister, you yourself come from Litoměřice and I'm sure you've ever visited this lake, so I'd like to know what the chance is to keep it without a small hydro power plant. Or will the citizens' interests in favour of private investors retreat again? I really do not want the interests of a private investor to be taken into account over the interests of the general public, and we are losing another piece of beautiful nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u154	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. The next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u155	Dear Minister, it has been necessary to reinstate drapes in recent weeks. But there are a number of people whose health indications make it impossible for them to wear a drape, or their wearing a drape can make their health worse. For example, this is the case. about strong asthmatics, which long wearing drapes can cause breathing problems and lead to collapse. To prevent it, they have to take off their drapes for a while, but at that point the police can fine them for failing to wear their drapes and they have no way of defending themselves against it and proving the reason and authority not to wear the drapes, e.g. medical confirmation of their medical indication. This problem can lead to the social exclusion of a number of people who, for precautionary reasons and fear that they might collapse, go shopping, travel by mass or visit other public places. Dear Minister, are you not preparing a change, on the basis of which, for example, specialised doctors could confirm their health indication, which may in some cases lead to the need for temporary or permanent wearing of a drape, to certain groups of people with health restrictions, which are more susceptible to wearing a drape? [[Limitations?]] I'm just saying that I'm drawing on this topic of interpelling from e-mails that I've run out of citizens who have had this experience. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u156	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u157	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madame Members, the remaining Members, of course, I receive similar suggestions, and we also have certain exceptions in wearing the drapes, which are primarily intended for patients at the moment, for example. with autistic spectrum disorder, mental illness. Where we know that actually wearing a drape is actually very difficult for them, and often maybe even understand the meaning, this exception is already in this extraordinary measure today. If we are talking about other exceptions from the point of view of health indication, I have asked colleagues to actually discuss this with the relevant professional companies whether the drape is actually a major complication or not. So now I'm waiting for my colleagues' expert opinion, and we're going to decide that because I've also received these suggestions, even though it must be said that, given that today we actually have the obligation of drapes not quite general, as it was in the spring, when they were actually worn, they had to be worn everywhere, on the street, etc., but really today the obligation is in quotation marks only, although of course relatively wide, in internal spaces, so of course the question is whether this is not possible, or whether it is fundamentally problematic for a person with asthma, for whom, on the other hand, it can be quite complicated if he is infected with COVID-19 disease, as well as any patient who has some pneumological disease. We know that they actually belong to those risk groups, on the other hand, people who, if COVID-19 is infected, can be quite crucial to them. So we want to consider this in some way, in cooperation with experts, and possibly accept any change in this regard if there is a general consensus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u158	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u159	Minister, this will be a brief follow-up question. In what time would you consider such a possibility? Until when could that be an opinion? And I understand that we don't have to wear the drapes across the board, but the situation is evolving in some way, and just to be clear how this is going to be handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u160	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u161	In fact, the suggestions came especially during the last week, based on the general obligation to wear drapes in the indoor spaces, which are valid from Thursday, so I handed them over to my colleagues. And I believe that, say, by the end of September, we will take a position on this in cooperation with experts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u162	Thank you. Again, Mrs Věra Kovářová's next interview with Minister Jana Maláčová on remuneration versus salary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u163	Madam Secretary, we have repeatedly witnessed extraordinary rewards that sometimes make up a considerable proportion to the permanent salary component. For example, on Tuesday the salaries of castle officials published. Their extraordinary remuneration is regularly about one third to one half of their salary. A similar remuneration at the Central Bohemia Regional Authority has blown our breath. I have nothing against high rewards, but if they're deserved. Of course, in this case, it's a question, but I don't want to talk about it. Rather, the above points to systemic weaknesses in the remuneration of public employees. The pay opportunities of public institutions are sometimes limited and it is not easy to compete with the private sector. Therefore, employees' salaries are often increased by personal evaluation. But where does the acceptable balance of income levels in the interests of competitiveness end, and where does the unacceptable abuse of this institute begin? That's a question I'm asking myself, but also now you. In the area of municipal self-government, the adjustment of extraordinary rewards is very restrictive. The conditions are really strict and the restrictions are quantitative. I know that historically, it was also due to the attitude of your office. How does your office view the events of the Central Bohemia Regional Authority and the Office of the President of the Republic in this light? Aren't we aiming a little more meters? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u164	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. The next is Mrs Pavla Golasowská, with an interview also to Mrs Jana Maláčová, who is absent and excused. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u165	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I am being approached by more and more people who have applied for a care allowance and are waiting in vain for an answer for many months. Long time limits shall also apply when the person concerned disagrees with the Office's observations and requests are rejected. Madam Secretary, I am asking you what measures you are taking so that those who have applied for do not wait six months or more for answers, and in what time will this situation improve. Often, applicants do not even live to see the contribution. And those who take care of them do so at their own expense. And I just want to say that the situation isn't new, but it's been here a long time. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u166	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. Next, Mr Jan Lipavský, who is not present, is failing his interpellation. The next is Mrs Monika Jarošová, also absent. Mrs Věra Kovářová. [[A messenger came to the hall. Jaroš.]] Yes, you made it in such a hurry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u167	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, although the veterinary law on compulsory chipping of dogs from three months of age has been approved, a central register of dogs has not been established with this law, where the legal obligation of owners of vaccinated dogs to register was not established. If the breeder does not chip the dog today, his vaccination against rabies will cease to be valid. The main reason for chipping dogs is the connection with the vaccine card, but also with its owner. All of this is possible only if the chip is registered in the dog register, otherwise the chip shows only a 15-digit number code, which many dog breeders do not know. With mandatory registration, the owner of the abused animal will also be easily traceable and the so-called control will be improved. multiplication plants. Today, the situation is that the owner of the vaccinated dog cannot be traced unless it is registered. Some veterinarians already write dogs themselves into one of the ten private registers automatically in the cost of chipping. However, it is not mandatory. I know using existing private registers isn't ideal, but it's all we've got so far. [[17.40 hours]] The Central Register has been promised by the Ministry of Agriculture since 2022, but isn't it too late? Let me give you an example. Would we allow a license plate to a car without a car register? Or would we leave that responsibility to ten private registers, where they'll be able to track each other down? Sounds like the same logic to me. The question is: why was it introduced prematurely an obligation to drink dogs without a central register? Why didn't it make sure it was created in time? When we ask people to do something, we must also offer them the conditions to fulfill their legal obligation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u168	Thank you, the interview will be answered in writing. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u169	Dear Minister, in recent months, self-employed persons who, after school and other facilities, had to discontinue their business in connection with child care or disability could apply for treatment as well as employees. The current situation regarding the development of the number of infected people shows that it will not take long and the temporary closure of schools will become increasingly frequent. Even after summer holidays, some schools did not welcome their pupils, since part of the teaching body is under quarantine. This now creates discrimination between employees who are entitled to the infirmary and self-employed persons who have not been entitled to the infirmary since September. This may cause existential problems for some families who suddenly lose part or all of their income. The problem is most affected by the self-employed women who, in the case of school closure, must stay home with the child and cannot carry out their business. Dear Minister, are you planning to reintroduce the subsidy programme for the payment of the infirmary in case of school closure? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u170	Thank you, the interview will be answered in writing. Mrs Pavla Golasowská will perform with an interview with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u171	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I appeal to you in connection with the letter from the Union of Towns and Municipalities addressed to the members of the Government on 8 September this year. In a letter, the Union draws attention to the situation in which cities and municipalities are prepared to implement their intentions, to award public contracts, to spend money. However, they already need to know the future development of funds for this. Cities and municipalities have prepared projects for the next period, they want to help restart the economy, but they need a basic stable financial framework to implement the project. At present, the proposed abolition of the supergross wage and reduction of income tax is proposed. While this amendment will not undermine the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, it will reduce the imaginary purse of money that is intended to be redistributed for local administrations without proposing measures to re-filled the purse. The Dear Minister, municipalities and regions are in the process of preparing the draft budget for 2021 and for its proper establishment and award of public contracts for next year necessarily need to know the basic but stable financial framework in which they will be moving in the following period. Madam Secretary, my question is what you will do specifically to inform cities and municipalities about financial stability as soon as possible, so that they know what financial volume they should expect for next year. And I also ask you to initiate a meeting with the Union of Towns and Villages to address their financial stability. Maybe you already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u172	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, first of all, I must remind you that our cities and municipalities are in very good financial condition and, despite the economic downturn, they have an ideal starting point for facing the current economic situation. That's for starters. Many times it has been repeated that this government is not going to cross its way out of the current deteriorated economic situation. But I would like to begin by reminding you that not all governments have been so helpful. In the past, resources for territorial budgets, in the past, in the last crisis, have also been cut off under savings. The contribution to the administration's performance in the last crisis has been reduced. The subsidies were revised to municipalities and regions and also reduced the tax shares of municipalities and regions during the previous crisis. That, of course, is easily traceable. On the contrary, we, to the public, are pumping resources into the territory. And by far it is not just a one-time non-purpose contribution of CZK 1,250 per resident of each community. This contribution in total amount of 13,4 billion. significantly exceeds the estimated 5.5-billion-dollar impact of the compensatory bonus for entrepreneurs. Therefore, in this respect, we provide the municipalities not only with a helping hand but also with considerable additional resources. The projected decline in tax revenues in 2020 is only 7.1 billion after taking into account the exceptional contribution. CZK, with an increase in tax revenues in 2019 being 19 billion. Crowns. In addition, more than 30 billion additional municipalities were secured in the 2020 budget. The koruna, of which 3.1 billion. to repair schools and kindergartens in municipalities, another 960 million will go to repair buildings or apartments in the property of municipalities. Two billion. The government strengthened the programme to finance prepared water management projects carried out by municipalities through the SPŽP. Another 2.6 billion. CZK The government supported water management projects financed from the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. Billions will flow into the area to promote spa, revitalization of the territory, second and third class roads and so on. To this end, let us add equally important resources to the territory for the benefit of various sectors of the corporate and non-profit sphere, such as social services and health care. If I can speak for my department, the Ministry of Finance will release 4.3 billion by the end of 2020. for a circus of 640 projects, for reconstruction and modernisation of primary and kindergarten schools and for rental housing within the scope of municipalities. But this government does not forget the delegation. We regularly valorize the contribution to the administration's performance. In 2019 it was even a total 10% increase. For 2020, it was able to cover its cumulative 5-percent valorisation, which is projected to the same percentage in the upcoming draft budget for 2021. This year-on-year overall increase is also included in the proposal for a medium-term perspective for the years 2022 and 2023. By comparison, in the period of economic crisis after 2009, the contribution to the performance of the public administration in the municipalities and the capital city of Prague was shortened by almost 18 percent. It was about a 9 percent reduction in the regions. In this context, let me remind you how often, in the past, a call has been made to the common breathing of public budgets from municipal representatives. It cannot be added that this call was also repeatedly granted by increasing the tax shares of municipalities at the expense of the state budget share. Moreover, I cannot forget that, through EET and control reports in previous years, municipalities and regions participated in increased collection of value added tax without reducing their tax shares at the same time, as some of our government predecessors have repeatedly done. Moreover, it appears that many of the resources resulting from the municipalities' already increased tax shares often end up in the municipal bank accounts without really being used for investment. This is confirmed by balances in these accounts, which increased to around three times between 2011 and 2019. Overall about astronomical 162 billion. Crowns. In the half of this year, the municipalities had 219 billion in their accounts. Crowns. [[Time, Madam Secretary.]] I agree with the argument that they remained on their own accounts. The balances on the accounts are not in themselves an argument on the financial situation of the municipalities. [[Madam Secretary, time.]] If you don't mind, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u174	I'm sure I'd be happy if the Secretary of State then finishes what she had in mind. But I'd like to ask you one more question, because my question was, do you have any contact on the basis of that letter with the Union of Towns and Villages? It was one thing if you were communicating with them like that. And then I just wanted to say, because I'm hearing from these cities and municipalities that even you want to make up for it, but like putting funding in those cities and municipalities in the form of grant controls, but there's a lot of problems, because they're obviously investing in preparatory projects. The subsidy procedure may not always work out, so they will have drowned money in those projects that they will not be able to implement. And the other thing is, there's often participation in those projects, and the municipalities and cities don't have the money to do it. On the contrary, I know about some of the cities that are already in debt and taking credit, because whatever the covid situation that was, they're missing the money. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u175	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u176	So I'm gonna finish this with permission, and I'm gonna respond to your questions right now. In the half of this year, the municipalities had 219 billion in their accounts. Crowns. I agree with the argument that the balances in the accounts themselves are not an argument on the financial situation of the municipalities, however, their constantly increasing trend shows that the municipalities are largely only accumulated, and neither is the repeated increase in tax revenue between 2011 and 2019, when the tax revenues of the municipalities increased by 103,3 billion. CZK, it is not converted into an investment. Of course, it doesn't apply in general. From this point of view, the state's subsidy resources directly targeted at investment projects are shown to be more significantly more effective. I would like to say to your question, of course with the Union of Towns and Municipalities we are in touch, next week will be a videoconferencing interview, we are writing letters, we are preparing, of course, as we have now published the macroeconomic prediction, so we have refined the estimate of revenue developments. What you said, I don't think so. I've been spending a lot of summer going to the regions, because it's a period when Parliament doesn't go, so I've had relatively, relatively more that time. I didn't take vacations, so I went to the regions, talked to the mayor very often. So far, I haven't encountered any negative feedback in the direction I've been. I was really across the Republic because of the compensation bonus for the municipalities. They were very welcome. This is just one of the sources, except their revenue, which they use to co-finance. That is why we provided the compensatory bonus so that the municipalities did not have any problems with co-financing. The subsidy programmes are based on the fact that there is a great deal of interest in them. It also shows that they were in a huge overhang. We covered all the subsidy titles under the third amendment to the Budget Act, where the request was, but only not implemented due to a lack of money. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u177	Thank you. Member Jan Lipavský is not present, MP Monika Jarošová with an interview with Minister Miroslav Toman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u178	Minister, I want to ask you about this year's food jumping price, especially fruit and vegetables, in a country that was once self-sufficient both in industry and agriculture, and which has given up all this over the last 30 years by gradually selling out, including water. We lost our self-sufficiency and turned ourselves into an inadequate assembly and a market for scraps. I think it is important to return the situation of this area to a time when we were completely self-sufficient in the production of meat and milk, and we were even able to export surpluses. Even in cereal production, we were incomparably better off. I think that the return of food self-sufficiency to our growers, breeders, processors and producers should be a number one priority for the responsible government. And so, Minister, I want to ask you whether citizens are to get used to constant price increases or whether you see the future more promising, for example, in supporting our country's food self-sufficiency. And how do you feel about the amendment to the Food Act and the proposal to gradually increase the share of Czech food in our market. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u179	Thank you. It will be answered in writing. And the last interpellation you can put down is an interpellation to Secretary Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u180	Madam Secretary, let me ask you a similar question. I also want to ask about this year's food jumping price, and especially fruit and vegetables, in a country that was once self-sufficient both in industry and agriculture, and which has given up on it over the last 30 years thanks to past governments through gradual selling. So I want to ask if citizens are to get used to this constant costing, or if it gets better, and when it gets better. I want to ask if it's a state where people devalue their savings, or when they get a thousand grand crowns added for great fame, and then they leave so much in the store. I'm asking your personal opinion whether we should get used to the fact that the worst economic effects are yet to come, or if you see this future more promising. And I wonder why we have such high inflation rates, one of the highest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u181	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u182	Thank you. Madam, it is true that vegetables and fruit in particular have significantly increased in recent months, in some cases by more than one hundred percent. There is an increase in prices throughout Europe. The increase has several reasons, which relate mainly to the pandemic COVID-19, but their dynamics are only temporarily higher. Prices of consumer prices affect domestic prices and foreign prices, including the exchange rate of the koruna vis-à-vis the currencies of trading partners. Prices also affect generally regulated prices, part of this price, indirect taxes or, for example, the crop commodity in a given year, dry spring, rainy summer in the Czech Republic. It also has a significant impact on the price of the labour market, in particular the fallout of seasonal workers, where the cost of work is reflected in the costs of companies and those subsequently with a greater or less degree to the final price on the market. There are many factors, therefore, because it also depends on the strength of competition, demand for goods or services, as well as on many indirect factors, disruption of international trade and transport problems. Demand has increased consumer interest in fruit and vegetables throughout Europe this year, probably given the recommendations of doctors and immunologists during the pandemic period. The recent increase in inflation was mainly due to the long-term development of the Czech economy before the crisis. The Czech economy has grown faster in the long run than other eurozone countries. The unemployment rate was at a record low level, creating pressure on wage growth and high demand. Of course, the coronavirus crisis is also involved in inflation, because for example, some products, especially food, depend on imports from southern Europe. For 2020, the average inflation rate is expected to be below 3,2 per cent, and in 2021, more significant upside factors should be missing, and inflation should slow to 1.9 per cent as a result of the decrease in unit labour costs and the remaining negative output gaps. With effect from 1 May 2020, we have significantly reduced value added tax for a wide range of goods and services to 10 percent. The second reduced rate now includes the area of food. Instead of concluding, however, allow me to make a simple point. The Czech Republic is constantly reaching very low levels of price levels vis-à-vis Western countries and the average of the entire European Union. Last year it was only about 70 percent of the price level of the whole 27. But we are also growing dynamically in wages that compensate for growth. In another way, we will not close the gap between prices and wages in the Czech Republic and our economically advanced neighbours until our wages and prices rise faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u183	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u184	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I understand we're having a hard time, but I'm worried that the worst economic consequences will come or maybe come. And I think that is why we need to support an increase in the share of Czech food on our market, on our counters, and increase food self-sufficiency so that it does not turn out, as you say, that we are dependent on imports in many foods. So I would like to ease the dependence on the imports, although there will always be an addiction. I can't. Even in the coronavirus crisis, the danger that lies in the lack of self - control has been expressed in full nudity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u185	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u186	I can only agree with you what you said, Madame, because the cards were dealt deep in the past. You know we were a self-sufficient country. We've become very dependent on imports, we won't change it by waving a magic wand, but it's one of our government's visions. When we found ourselves in the pandemic in the spring, we then supported a massively high amount of about 4.5 billion small farmers, small producers. That's why we're small and medium to support the degree of self-sufficiency. It won't go from day to day, of course, because the market has been working for some time, but we should definitely do our best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-17-ps2017-058-03-005-490.u187	I also thank you and note that for today's day of discussion we have closed the oral consultations, and I am ending today's meeting day. We'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. with possible points from the third reading block. Have a good evening. Goodbye.
