ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u1	511. Proposal for a compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, /German press 1055/2/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 1055/3. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail, and Senator Vilímec... We are all looking forward to seeing Senator Vilímec, who will surely come, but first I ask that the words of the plaintiff for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled be taken by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce for the last time the bill on compensation bonus, very briefly, because I believe you all remember the parameters. Its objective is to support self-employed persons in the current emergency state, small eseróček partners and non-employment agreements whose activities have been directly and substantially affected by the bans and restrictions adopted by the State in response to the current epidemiological situation. Since there was general agreement on the needs of this law on the ground of both chambers of Parliament and I have already presented it in detail here, I will now focus only on the key amendment adopted by the Senate, which I do not agree with. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] In connection with the compensation bonus on this House's soil, many times the phrase "who gives quickly, twice gives" was said. All the more I regret that the legislative process for the adoption of this law, thanks to the intervention of the Senate on the subject, which relates only indirectly to the compensatory bonus and which could be resolved independently of the proposed law, has been delayed for several weeks. In its amendment, the Senate proposes, in particular, to provide the regions with a contribution of CZK 300 per capita to compensate for the impact on regional budgets not only of the proposed law but also of...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u3	I apologize and ask for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u4	... but also a compensatory bonus that was granted to entrepreneurs in the spring. A compensation bonus, like any other tax bonus, such as a bonus on a child, under the Income Tax Act, is a refund on the revenue side of public budgets and, as such, affects the budgets of self-governments. I explained several times in both the House and the Senate that there was no other way to do this if the compensation bonus was to be paid by the Financial Administration and was to be with those who were waiting for it, and believe me, even now I have flooded the box with dozens of requests when the compensation bonus would already be. If it was gonna be fast, in two, in three days, there was just no other way to do it. Despite all this, as a government, we tried to compensate for the effects of the compensatory bonus from the spring and now autumn phases with a compensatory bonus for the municipalities where we put CZK 1,250 per head, which is a total of CZK 13.4 billion, not because we changed our mind about breathing with the budgets. And so, if we cancel the tax exemption, for example, insurance companies in the package of twenty, we also did not take the share of the government that received the budget thanks to insurance companies, so there is this impact, but still we are within the welcome hand, cooperation, hand-in-hand, and in order not to fight and compete with each other, we offset the amount many times, because the impact on the municipalities was probably final, the impact from the spring phase was about 5.5 billion and now we expect the amount disproportionately lower. [[2020?]] With regard to the regions, we compensated it in a different form, the amount was based on the agreement of the Prime Minister and then the reigning head of the Regionals Association of Mr. Governor Běhounek, former Governor of Běhounek, essentially the amount was around 21.6 billion. They were grants for twos, threes, grants for various rewards to paramedics, social services, paramedics, protective aids of 1.8 billion. The failure itself, which was a spring compensation bonus for the regions, was 2 billion and the estimated impact of the autumn compensation bonus on regional budgets is 0.7 billion. So basically, I wanted to say that the amount is much lower than the amount that was given to the regions on various occasions. [[15.20 hours]] The second amendment proposed by the Senate is to introduce a derogation from the prohibition on the continuance of entitlement to a compensatory bonus and the entitlement to other aid related to the mitigation of the consequences of the current crisis, namely the exception aimed at the COVID - Rent programme. The aid under this programme is granted from 1 July 2020 to 30 September 2020, i.e. it is not in conflict COVID - Rent with compensation bonus under this Act. The collision could occur only if covid - nájemné extended. As a general rule, the granting of co-operation with other programmes would cause some entrepreneurs to multiply the support they are entitled to, and this would, of course, also involve... we must look at this from the perspective of some budgetary responsibility. However, in interpretation, as we simply interpret the law, which will actually be the subject of today's vote, there is currently a collision with COVID - Rent is not. For all these reasons, I dare ask you to support this law. People are waiting for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u5	Thank you. Now I will ask Senator Vladislav Vilímca to take the floor. Then the President Stanjura asked for the floor with priority rights after his appearance. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u6	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, Madam Vice-President of the Government, honourable Members, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has instructed me to justify the return of the House press 1055, i.e. the bill on the compensation bonus, with the Senate approved by the amendments. First of all, I would like to say that the Senate has in principle accepted the extent of compensation and the set conditions associated with the payment of compensation bonuses. He respected the intention of the petitioner that this time the Institute of Compensation Bonus is not set as across the board as it was in the spring months. The Senate's amendments are two. They also do not extend the range of compensatory bonus entities. However, the Senate assessed in detail whether Section 8 - that is, exclusion from the compensatory bonus - cannot, in some cases, affect compensatory entities too hard when it excludes entitlement for the calendar day for which the compensatory bonus body received other support related to the mitigation of the consequences of the occurrence of coronavirus in the Czech Republic. In some cases, incompatibility with other types of aid may actually cause considerable difficulties. [[Big noise in the hall.]] We are aware, of course, that the current time parameters of the decisive period of the subsidy programme COVID - Rent does not lead to overlap of the aid with the compensatory bonus. The Senate is aware of that. On the other hand, we know that the emergency situation has been prolonged since the Senate meeting. It may be extended further and may of course be extended, or the extension of the COVID -rent program cannot be excluded, and then the claims could be met. I think that we have a fresh experience from the pandemic period and that it shows us a great lesson that we cannot rely on the fact that the current situation will quickly be overcome. It could take weeks. Really. And then it is good to have support in the law and, in the case of at least rent, allow the possibility to draw both compensation bonus and support from COVID - Rent. Because if it wasn't, many subjects will get into a very difficult situation and will be faced with a very difficult choice. The Senate therefore complements or proposes to add to § 8 such legislation, which means that the entitlement to the compensation bonus is compatible with the aid received in the Czech Republic, which serves to pay rent. That's the first suggestion. I think it is necessary to prepare for a not quite positive development, although I would like the current situation to be managed in the order of the individual days, but it will probably not be. The second proposal, which the Minister has spoken so extensively about, concerns the extension of this bill and the payment of the contribution to the regions, because we talk about it very often in the Senate, and I have also talked about it here. It is evident that the method of payment of the compensatory bonus is relatively gross, in advance undaved intervention in the structure of the budgetary determination of taxes. Madam Secretary here said we couldn't do it any other way. The Ministry of Finance complicated its role in 2017 when it pushed into the budgetary rules that it could not provide any subsidy without the prior call being made, not even any return financial assistance. At the time, I pointed out to the Committee on Budgets that there could be no crisis, and the government or the Ministry of Finance would have no instrument at hand that could be used for rapid and effective assistance. [[Permanently strong noise in the hall.]] The government found him. It's kind of a half-pure instrument, because it's kind of a refund from a dependent activity tax. And we all know that the tax on income from dependent activity is what is called a shared tax. And by returning tax collection, it basically brings a huge impact not only on the state budget, but also on the budgets of municipalities and regions. For illustration only, in the second week or April week of tax on dependent activities, there was actually no choice. [[unintelligible]] This means, for the first time after 25 years neither the municipalities nor the regions received any tax resources from the dependent activity as part of the collection. That's the first time this ever happened. And I think that both the government and the Treasury and, of course, the House and the Senate must look for a way to compensate for these obvious impacts. After all, in connection with the tax package, the Senate has already returned the bill with an amendment to pay compensation contributions to municipalities amounting to CZK 1,200. The government then added 50 in connection with the extension of the compensatory bonus. And now the Secretary of Finance is talking that the municipalities have been generously compensated. Both the Senate and eventually the government were based on the original estimates of the Ministry of Finance's 45 billion impact. So the Treasury can't complain right now because it was the Treasury numbers. As regards the current amendment to the contribution to the regions, I must say that the Senate tried to find a compromise option with the Ministry of Finance. The Minister knows it was twice at the meeting of the Economic Committee, the original proposal was CZK 400. Then, after careful consideration of the current updated impact data, which actually brings the compensation bonus payment, we chose 300 crowns. We went to the end of the compromise. I consider it an elementary expression of a certain courtesy of the state, the seriousness of the state towards the regional authorities. For the elemental expression. I can't say it any other way. As for some other funds received by the county, yes, they did. I won't deny it. I don't know if it was 21 billion. It doesn't imply to me from the monthly data published by the Ministry of Finance that it would be $21 billion. But in the case of the Plzeň Region, where I was a representative, it was about CZK 145 million in total. So I don't know where that $21 billion would come from unless we count the usual subsidy from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure in the past few years, otherwise you can't get to the $21 billion, Madam Secretary. But I don't want to talk about it right now. [[15.30 hours]] We've been talking about this in the Senate for a long time. We have chosen a real option that only compensates for what I actually - I don't want to use the word picked up, but the impact that the payout of the compensation bonus brought, only the refund of the tax on dependent activities in the case of regions. That's all. They don't get any extra land. I consider it - and after all, the Madam Secretary confirmed it in the Senate, too bad she didn't confirm it here in the House, I quite expected it - a fair proposal. That's exactly what the Secretary of State used in the Senate. Yes, I really consider it a rational, sensible proposal. This proposal has the support of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and other professional organisations such as the Association of Local Authorities and other professional associations. The CZK 300 brings an impact on the state budget of about 3.2 billion and even in regions with the smallest population, such as the Karlovy Vary Region or the Liberec Region, Vysočina, Pardubicky Region, so it compensates for at least the actual tax losses on dependent activities. That's all. It's more or less a minimal option. I am absolutely convinced, although, of course, the Minister's responsibility is that it is also a financing option from an approved state budget with that huge deficit. You know, it was often said in connection with the debate on the region's contribution that this was some sort of pre-election issue. It wasn't, and it's not true. Today we have already after the regional elections. Look, I'm already the resigning councilman of the Plzeň Region today, I haven't even been elected a representative, but it doesn't change my opinion that it's just right, it's decency, it's the county's tax cuts -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u7	Good afternoon, Senator. I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. [[Senator William continues his speech.]] Senator! [[Yes?]] I'll stop you for a second. Good afternoon, honourable Members. I have to say, it's so noisy here that I don't understand what he's saying at all, and I think it's a very serious problem for the record of this hearing. If you are discussing a subject other than a compensation bonus, it is crucially in the foyer. Don't make me name those who cancel the hearing. I'll wait. There's still not enough... Just a moment, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Please continue.]] I'll make it short. I don't think there's any need to deliver any more. I believe that there is no argument against adequate support for the regions in a situation where the State has artificially intervened in the system of budgetary determination of taxes and has significantly influenced the autonomous development of the tax revenues of the regions and municipalities. That support was given to the municipalities. Now it's time for the county to get it. I therefore ask you to support this amendment of the Senate. That's all I want to say. The Minister often says that we need to invest from the current crisis situation. So, in the case of counties, if we take their money, it's hard to invest. After all - the final remark, just to make you realize this - the draft state budget that you will be discussing in the next or this week assumes a deficit of about CZK 1.5 or 2 billion. So the budgets of the regions are not bottomless, and I therefore ask you to proceed to minimum compensation for the outages, as has been done to a greater extent in the case of municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u9	Have a good afternoon again. Thank you, Senator Vladislav Vilímc. Before we continue, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Antonín Staněk from today's meeting for health reasons. We will continue with the presentation of the rapporteur of the Kamal Farhan Guarantee Committee, who does not apply, and in that case I can comply with two priority applications before the opening of the debate, and this is first the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and then the President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. Now, then, President Stanjura, before the debate is opened. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u10	I don't know if President Jurečka will agree. I assumed that you would open the debate so that others might respond to my speech. So I see no problem opening up a debate with the fact that I would be the first speaker in the open debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u11	I, of course, if my colleague Jurečka agrees with this, - and I had it handed down from the President this way, that it was before the debate was opened. So now I'm opening the debate, and the first one registered with priority rights is Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'll speak directly to the secretary. The first thing I thought of was a winged saying: promises are made and fools rejoice. My colleagues from the Senate, members of our Senator's club, told me that they had a promise from the Madam Secretary that they would support the Senate version. We heard what happened today. Promises promise, fools rejoice. Madam Secretary sighed here that it took a long time and that it could have been faster. Yes, such a law can be passed more quickly in both chambers, if the government realises that it should also debate with the opposition before it is approved in the Chamber of Deputies. Many of us drew attention to that. If the government had at least complied with the opposition, there was a good chance that the bill wouldn't have been returned to us by the Senate. This is a long-term problem where the government relies on having a majority here, and forgets that it just doesn't have a majority in the second chamber, and then it looks like it's taking a long time, but it's the stubbornness of the government, not the proper comments made by fellow senators. We'll vote for the Senate version because it's better. I don't think the compensation proposal for the county fell from the sky, it's been discussed for months. In fact, the senators have already reduced and presented a compromise proposal that is based on real numbers, not on estimates by the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance has overshot its estimates of how much it will pay in the spring compensation bonus, and the initial proposals were based on this to make it CZK 500 per capita. So I would appreciate at this moment the sobriety of this Senate proposal as a whole. And the other thing is even more serious. I must say, self-critically, that we have not talked about this in an emergency, in a state of legislative emergency, in the Chamber of Deputies. And I really want to ask the Minister if this is the government's intention. First question. Does the government know that businessmen have employees? Does the government know about this? I think he knows it's no surprise. I don't understand when the government shuts down establishments, that it puts businessmen ahead of this choice: either they get compensation for their employees and I get nothing, or vice versa - for myself to survive, I get CZK 500 a day, but I won't have the wages for my employees. What's the point of this businessman's famous Antivirus A and B program if he can't use it by law? Where is there any accumulation of compensation for the particular businessman the secretary mentioned? Nowhere! And it's probably not an omission, it's an intention. And I don't see the logic at all. It is good that there is a co-operation with the COVID - Rent, although the government's argument is so weak that it does not concern the summer period, but the establishments are closed again in these days, in these weeks, they have to pay the rent again to those to whom the government has already closed the establishment. And I'm not questioning that fact right now, and I'm not debating whether it was right or wrong. So we're going to adopt a new program, and we're going to announce our multi-minister again, and then we're going to amend the law, because the secretary is opposed to allowing this conspiracy. But try explaining not to us, Madam Secretary, explain to businessmen who are without income, have a closed establishment, have five, six, seven, eight employees, that, unlike the large companies that are pumping Antivirus A and B, they will not get a crown on their employees with a justification for the alleged coincidence of the aid. But we support someone else entirely! [[15.40 hours]] I repeatedly claim that the compensation bonus has the character of social benefits. And Antivirus has the character of promoting business and maintaining jobs. And all of a sudden, the government is knowingly building up tradesmen against each other, either drawing support to keep jobs, or drawing support for itself to have at least 15 grand a month. What kind of attitude is that? I don't want a free discount, I'd say so. We will declare solemn support to the tradesmen and make those conditions as low as possible! Madam Secretary will say that this is budgetaryly responsible. Madam Secretary, how much was drawn from Antivirus B in May, June, July, August, September and October? How much did the businessmen draw, and how much did the small companies, medium and large companies draw? Who's the program for, the Antivirus B? Why are we throwing employees, businessmen overboard? I don't understand. We're not gonna change that today. I would like to call on the government to prepare an amendment to this law quickly, unfortunately, a amendment that will allow the constituencies of the compensatory bonus and the Antivirus programme. Or when the cursarbeit works, won't the compensation bonus work? Will it be in the same logic? That he gets 500 kroner a day, so he doesn't get anything for the employees if there's a closed establishment? Will the cursarbeit also be able to benefit those who have closed facilities if they draw 500 crowns a day? Yes or no? That's not what we're talking about in the Chamber of Deputies. And I don't see the only reason the government has cut off and sacrificed the employees of the tradesmen. Or, on the contrary, when the businessman decides that it is better for him for many reasons to ask for that 60 per cent for his five, six, seven employees. Let's do the math. That won't be 15 grand a month. And Madam Secretary, he'll say they actually did it consciously. I thought it was an omission. A omission can be corrected. But if it's the government's conscious attitude that we have two categories of employees depending on whether they're working at a businessman's office or in an eseroque, in a stock company or somewhere else. I don't understand at all. I'd need clear answers for that. Why can't a businessman who, for example, comes for a compensation bonus use the Antivirus program? Where do you see the budgetary irresponsibleness that such a small firm is not entitled to support its employees and maintain jobs? I don't see any logic in it, I see in it something like class struggle or overlooking those little ones who really don't care about this government. If it's an oversight, I understand, it happens, sometimes someone misses something. But the secretary said they did it on purpose. On purpose. The continuum of the aid. Okay, so you have ten employees, you get 15 grand, and that's it. So that's how we treat all companies, not by size, not by who the employer is, but by everyone's size. Here, employees of small businessmen and businessmen themselves are discriminated against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u13	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, President Jurečka, Mrs. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová will be prepared with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I will actually follow up. I may just ask then, if the Senator is still able to speak, to try to speak as close as possible to the microphone and articulate, because not only for the sake of the House's hustle, but also because of the cloak, I confirm, it was very difficult for him to understand in the defense of the arguments of the Senate vomit. However, now for the compensation bonus itself. I have already pointed that out in this discussion here in the Chamber of Deputies, I have made the amendment that actually made it possible to combine other types of support in the case of a compensatory bonus, a businessman or a small eseróček. I think my colleague Stanjura has made some examples very clear here. I would really like not only the Minister, but also the Prime Minister, who sits here today after a long time in the House, to come out and say why the government parametrically set it up like this. Why, if there are different approaches in the package, when there is a solution to the support of the tradesmen, the self-employed and small eseróček, why is there a need for a different regime for the small eseróček, when you can combine the support with the small eseróček, but for the tradesman, who can employ more people than the little eseróček, you can't do the combination? So I'm gonna ask you to really respond to this, and most importantly, it doesn't really give me the logic. If we have a program here to monitor the support of those employees and jobs, and then there is a program to monitor the support of the very businessman who is not an employee, but the self-employed, and we want him to survive, so that his family can survive, so that he can have something to pay for his family's expenses, as we help him. So I would like this to be changed in some next legislative round. If it was here from my point of view, I think, a well-set system from the spring wave, when it was possible to combine it with the infirmary as well, I ask myself, if the government is so often speaking here, that the support should now be really generous, when the government says here by other instruments, we want to support household consumption, and therefore also support the domestic economy by paying out the sluggish, so why is there such a parametric limitation here in this case? I would also respond to the issue of the combination of compensation bonus and rent. It has to be said that in the period we're going to talk about now, in the fourth quarter, if the rules don't change, that's not gonna be possible. Because it can only be combined today when the rent relates to that period in the third quarter. Yes, there he can ask for the businessman, the self-employed, for the third quarter, in the months of July, August, September, where he can apply for the rental aid. But the businessman can no longer ask for it in the course of October or November, that is, in this period. Again, it doesn't exactly make sense. And I'm seeing a lot of businessmen pointing out to me that they haven't been directly closed since October 5th, but they've been severely limited since September. If, in any way, the government is reacting to it, or it's turning its back and saying, we've limited it to you, but we're 40 to 50 percent of the revenue you could have, so we've actually canceled that we've limited your opening hours, and deal with what you want. Go home and tell your wives and husbands that it's just gonna be more than 50 percent lower now, so they can deal with it somehow. It's not a normal approach, if we're talking about it - and you, Madam Secretary, at the outset, said you wanted to help these people. You've been talking about who gives fast twice. But you don't give fast, and you certainly don't give twice. You've been giving maybe zero five times. And there's a proposal from the Senate that comes with a fairly reasonable compromise from my point of view, and I really don't understand why the Senate proposal is not a will to support it. Including the fact that the Senate proposal is trying to match at least part of the revenue gap for the county. There are representatives of some regional government sitting here and I think they might say what impact these regions are expecting this year and next year and that this is really a very sad view of these things. So please nicely, if the Prime Minister or Madam Secretary, ideally both, could respond to those really differences, why small with r o., which is owned by one person and employed by people, why can draw both support, but why the same businessman, who employs maybe more people or the same, can't draw it like that. Please really explain that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u15	Thank you to President Jurečka. Now, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, with priority rights. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u16	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I suppose you read the law before you raised your hand for him. That you've read how this compensation bonus law is set. Otherwise, you wouldn't be able to ask me these questions. You can't open something for me right now that you've voted for yourself here! The law is set up so that the subject to which it relates has a choice. This is unlike spring, when these aids could actually accumulate in spring. And we clearly said, we just want to do this fall wave for budgetary reasons - and then I'll go back to the budget - we just want to act more selectively. That means it's a choice. Either he chooses... In any case, Prime Minister Stanjur, this refund from the Senate is not about antivir. The Senate wasn't concerned with antivir. The Senate dealt with COVID - Rent. And COVID - Rent will always be set backwards to avoid cases, isolated, I assume they will be anti-dating or simply adapt to some lease agreements. Finally we COVID - Rent made to be quick, so this time we didn't want any contract between the landlord and the tenant to cut the rent and compensate 50 percent. [[15.50 hours]] So please, what class fight are you talking about? About the class struggle that culminates by paying off almost a million businessmen or self-employed workers? Is that what this class fight is about? That we set up a flat-rate tax to simplify their lives? Of course, thanks to your voices, I'm objectively admitting that here. But I don't consider this a class fight. So COVID - The rent will always pass, it will always pass, because we will always pay it back. And the law you raised your hand for here just says they can't, they just have a choice. eseróčko, when you ask me, Mr. Ambassador, or Prime Minister Jurečka, when you ask me, this is about legal form. Just if s. r. o. and draws Antivirus, the support of the compensation bonus is drawn by individual partners. If we were to say that this is ruled out, it's unmanageable. We were debating it, for me it's all old topics that I've discussed with colleagues, unions, chambers x-times, because basically we'd say that when the partner got a compensatory bonus, he can't draw an antivirus eseróčko. But it takes four of those associates. I just can't. It's because of the legal form. A perfectly simple answer. So please, don't test me on this, don't even test me on the fact that we've delayed something. Thanks to that spring experience, we had the law prepared, the day we introduced the restrictions, I put it on the government. The government approved it, you quickly approved it here - thank you for that. He got held up in the Senate. He has stayed - and now, please, President Vilímč, yes, I have said this several times to the media, the proposal that the Senate has made to compensate the regions, of all the proposals that have fallen from the Senate, was the most correct one. I'm saying it here on a microphone, I've said it in the media, of all the designs. I didn't promise anything, Mr. Chairman Stanjur. Please get a log. I said I couldn't make any promises. I don't even vote. I said it was, from the designs, some of the proposals were just falling, I'm not even gonna comment here that it's the most compact. But I'm telling you one thing. There's a limited source of money on the government's budget reserve, that's all I can use for these expenses. Yesterday we may have exceptionally approved 8 billion in government to finance the chapter of the MPSV - infirmary, sick leave. We've got more expenses coming up. It's just, right now, it's about priorities. If we need money for people, for companies, then just right now, right now, compensation for the regions is not a priority. Those regions aren't in any dramatic situation, and we just helped them with other money. We're in a crisis. We're in a crisis, and the crisis is affecting everyone. That is the essence of the budgetary determination of taxes. I said in the Senate, what do you want? Would you like us to compensate the regions, cities and municipalities for the money they had during the boom? They're still in surplus. All the time! They have money in their accounts. And that's good, I'm glad. They have the money to use it in this crisis. Despite all this, we put our hands together, we compensated the municipalities for all this, because we didn't want to dig up moats in this difficult war. So please, please don't say this, it's not true. The object of the vomit is compensation for the county. Of all the proposals that were discussed in the Senate, in the plenary, I was there, even in the committee, and in the plenary, only the most correct. It reflects reality, I admit. However, it's about priorities now. And we need money from the government's budget reserve for people and businesses, so we can give it to them. And the last sentence, I won't forgive myself. Once again, you're criticizing us here, just like in the spring, for insufficient help, for a small one. She's supposed to be like that, she's gonna be like that. But which one of you raised your hand for any amendment to the State Budget Act? None of you do. None of you had the courage. And from the money we borrow cheaply in the financial markets, we give it to those people and those companies. The money from this budget deficit. On the contrary, I thank those who raised their hand for the budget. So, please, that's over and over again, that smart hobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u17	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. And now we have three factual points. My colleague Ferjenčík will wait. First Mr. Marian Jurečka, then Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr. Věra Kovářová. [[Members are discussing in groups.]] Before I speak to Mr Jurečka, I will again ask the House for peace. I ask my colleagues and my colleagues to transfer the discussions in the crowds into the foyer. This time, I'm gonna take it from right to left. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u18	I'll start with a positive start. Thank you, Mr President. I appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State just got off, at least reacted somehow, didn't leave it up to the final word, or didn't let it go away. But, Madam Secretary, you said that you wanted to address the question of not being able to give as much support as you did in the spring wave because you are addressing the issue of budgetary responsibility. I look forward to the debate for tomorrow when the proposals of your colleague, Prime Minister and Member Andrej Babiš are coming in here, which gives the parliamentary proposal minus CZK 90 billion. A second colleague from the government, Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, also gives a proposal of less than CZK 40 billion. And you have about CZK minus CZK 200 billion in the government budget in that government package. So, on the one hand, don't use the argument that comes in handy on Tuesday, so I hope you'll get off tomorrow and be a hard opponent to the Prime Minister and say that his proposal is not in line with the fact that you want to be responsible in relation to the state budget. You don't have to answer to me, but to those people. We're also getting written by the businessmen, and you said you wanted to help those families, those people. Well, the businessmen, they're people, and they have families. And they tell us some stories about how, for example, in the field of culture, their business has never started since the spring wave. The whole holiday was under government restrictions. Since the beginning of September, the entire gastro-sector has been under government restrictions. So explain to these people why you don't allow them to combine these aids. In doing so, it would be relatively small funds that they could draw here. And one last thing, and please, make a comment. Can the traders understand it as you said that even in the third quarter from 5 October, it will be possible to combine both the compensation bonus and the COVID application - Rent? Isn't that right? Did I get that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u20	Madam Secretary does not live in a real economy. The cows are great, there's no need for them... It's like the money's going to the county to get the captains and the deputies. I don't think people live there. We want to give money to people. And what do these counties do with the money, who do they give it to? Social services, hospitals, integrated rescue systems, educators. And I could go on like this. It's completely out of reality! We support people and companies, but not business employees. It's either human or corporate. I don't understand. How can you knowingly put a businessman before deciding whether to support yourself and your family or your employees' families? What choice is that? That's the class fight I was talking about. And I said, no, we didn't talk about it, we didn't talk about it, we didn't talk about it, we didn't talk about it, we didn't talk about it, we didn't talk about it. But we voted on it, Madam Secretary! And what did you say about the microphone? Disagree. Disagree. Disagree. Then don't tell me we haven't read the law. We voted on him. And I've called on the government, and I know it's not in the Senate's return to prepare a novel quickly to allow it. And I want to ask. The cursarbeit that you've been planning for months, and then you're gonna give us hours to discuss this place and approve, will it allow the conspiracy of a compensatory bonus and a cursarbeit? Yes or no? That's important to know, even for those firms, even for those businessmen who also employ and have employees. And notice what the secretary said. Well, the counties, they saved up the booms at the time. That's good, that's what I'm joining. And what did the government do during the boom? Where'd you save up for the expenses? One hundred billion extra revenue every year! Nothing! And then here we hear stories about budgetary responsibility. That was not the courage to vote for the budget of 500 billion. [[Time warning]] That was the height of irresponsibleness!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u21	The time has ended for a factual remark. Thank you. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mrs Vojtěch Munzar will prepare herself, both for a factual point. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm probably upset, too, in quotes, that remark, Madam Secretary, that you're doing it for people, that you need it for people. It is the same as with Mr Stanjura. That's right, but money for the regions and for the municipalities is money for those people, and you're doing everything you can to take that money away from them. And canceling a super gross wage, that's gonna be a real candy, really, because the blackouts are gonna be huge. Each of you can figure out what kind of blackouts are going to be in the municipalities and what kind of blackouts are going to be in the regions. The calculator is published, meaning all these things for people, for your communities and also for your regions. The local government association has prepared such a calculator, so do the math when you decide what is good for people and what is not good for people. I think that what the Minister here keeps saying in contempt that the municipalities and the regions have snatched, managed with the surplus, and I have to say it again and repeat - yes, they have been twitching, in quotation marks, tipping for co-financing, for investments and thinking about the future, unlike you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Vojtěch Munzar's factual comment. And hopefully we'll get to the debate properly applied for. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, Madam Secretary. Madam Secretary kind of provoked me with the phrase "smart mountaineer policy." And it is not by chance a government, you have repeated it here several times, which gives our businessmen a completely senseless choice: either you choose a compensatory bonus when you have closed establishments and when you have all the costs, including staff costs, or choose Antivirus and pay the other costs somewhere. I mean, that's a completely pointless choice you're giving us here. That's the policy of a smart hobby, like offering something to those businessmen, but absolutely insufficient things that don't reflect the reality that they have closed establishments. And speaking of which, Madam Secretary, how does the government intend to address even those downstream sectors that are not directly closed by the government's decision, but are thus significantly affected? We've been pushing for a resolution here to be dealt with by the government. Unfortunately, the government parties did not support the resolution. So if we're talking about a smart-ass hobby policy, then the government should probably clean up their own business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u25	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we will continue with the open debate by speaking to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Stanislav Juránek will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the issue of the COVID Continuance - Rent and Compensation Bonus. Firstly, I am glad that the Financial Administration, respectively The Ministry of Finance has therefore reached a more favourable interpretation of this provision for taxpayers. This means that our efforts to change this measure in itself in the Senate have made sense at least for this wave, because it is already clear that at least during this period the programme can be compensated, it will be possible to combine, even though I think the legal structure that the Ministry of Finance is using is simply shaky. Because, yes, the compensation bonus is actually paid for the quarter of the summer through September, but the money is usually paid in the same period as the tradesman asks for a compensatory bonus. And that's why we're dealing with it. So people, when they read the law, they logically come out of it that they're not entitled to the support. So he has to choose. We weren't discussing this from some of our plestry, but because we're being approached by a lot of businessmen, whether they can compensate for it or not. Even the industry servers wrote articles about it, and they came to believe that they were not allowed to, and that was why we developed the Senate initiative to make it explicitly clear that they could draw it. Because now that they read directly in the law that there's an explicit exception for this program, these people will, of course, stop worrying about giving back the money. And unfortunately, the refund of that money has already happened to so many people that the experience is huge. We're talking about people who had a conspiracy of the DEA and the CEO of an association of owners of units, so these people then had to return the 50 grand. We're talking about people who missed having a deal, then they had to be asked to return it, then they were entitled back. But maybe the Financial Administration isn't giving them the right information to ask for. We're talking about people who have been late paying their social contributions at Antivirus, and now they're returning the full amount. I know it's different authorities, it's different life situations, but from a citizen's point of view, there's just too much negative experience with the state machine that they're afraid of returning the money. And that's why we think it's very appropriate to strengthen legal certainty. That is why we explicitly named the COVID program - Rent, where it is truly absolutely absurd for an entrepreneur not to draw both COVID - Rent and compensation bonus, because there is no overlap of support. One is clear aid to finance the establishment, the other is aid to finance the cost of living, there is certainly no cumulation of aid. The second thing is that we were discussing the law at a time when the Minister of Health at the time was suffocating that if the nuclear power plant didn't explode, the children would go to school - I guess, November 3rd was supposed to be? The novel was being discussed in this atmosphere, and everyone expected it to be a short-term thing. However, it is also shown by the number of positive tests that unfortunately there is a risk that this will be significantly longer term. And then it can actually happen that if the state extends the support to COVID - Rent, then again the traders will get into huge uncertainty. That's why I'm asking you to support the Senate press. We also think that when the Ministry of Finance boasts how terribly it supported all the entrepreneurs and businessmen - and we say it is correct, we voted in favour - it is not right for them to co-finance the regions without having the opportunity to comment. So it seems perfectly fair to us to finance this state, this program. Next, a comment on the antivir. Once again, the state creates a huge sense of injustice, when two of the same establishments next to each other, only depending on the form of business which one of them has, receive different support. It's just a terrible injustice, and it's gonna cause a lot of resentment for those affected businessmen who are gonna say to themselves, "If I had s. r. o., I'd have the money, if I was on my own, even guaranteeing all my property, I wouldn't get the money." Who invents this in the Ministry? This is how people react to the way you prepare the legislation. Otherwise, of course, the other problems are that the program is extremely narrow. We suggested during the House hearing, that we expand the range of subjects that they can achieve. Colleagues draw my attention to the area of tourism, where guides are not forbidden, except they simply do not have customers. And there are, of course, more of these areas. The big problem is that even those who receive a compensation bonus must continue to make payments. That's another total absurdity for the state to pay you $15,000 and then take $5,000 back from you with the fact that it's a fee for you to do business, but it's actually saying that you're not in business, and that worked normally in the spring. So from my point of view, the program is very inadequate and there are big mistakes. Of course, we supported him in the final vote, because something better than nothing, but in our opinion, the government has been quite sloppy in this case. [[16.10 hours]] As far as budgetary implications are concerned, this was one of the reasons why we did not support - and it was a difficult decision for us - a one-off contribution to the elderly, although, of course, we would also like to give money to broad groups like you, but when we see people who have been paying taxes here for years, they have been doing business for years, and now they are in a total crisis, so we wanted to give the money to save the economy to save the economy. And now you say you don't have the money. Well, because you handed them out across the board. That's just your policy. You made that choice, but we think it's short-sighted politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u27	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Mr Stanislav Juránek will now appear, Mr Martin Jiránek will be prepared. Juránek's colleague was duly logged in, but I don't see him here, so his application falls to the end of the application. Now, then, Mr Martin Jiránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u28	Good afternoon, colleagues. I've got a chair for the lady. a question towards the guides, how did my colleague Ferjenčík bite. You on the Ministry of Finance website on frequently asked questions are listed on the compensation bonus: Question 6. Traders who engage in leisure activities, such as trainers, yoga teachers, language teachers, etc., are entitled to a bonus.? Answer: Yes, they do. It is directly linked to explicit prohibition or restriction of business. And the following is the sentence: Follow-up professions, such as yoga teachers or trainers at educational events, may apply for a compensatory bonus, such as fitness coaches, if at least 80 percent of them are damaged by the closure of indoor spaces, reinforcements etc. Then you have question number 10. Can I, as a partner with s.r.o., in the hotel business, apply for a compensatory bonus? Answer: Yes, you will be entitled to a bonus from the moment the accommodation services closed, i.e. from 22 October. And then I come to those guides, question number 12. I'm a self-employed person and I'm a guide for a living. Can I claim a bonus? And here you explain that only guides who performed at castles, castles, galleries and museums can ask for a compensation bonus, but people who performed in front of the castle, after Prague, after sights outside, cannot because they are not attached to a building. In question 10, you are clearly saying that accommodation services have been closed, which means that there are currently no tourists who could be carried out, and if a fitness yoga teacher or some trainer has the right to the compensation bonus due to a decline of 80 percent, I think that's exactly the same situation for the guide. And since I've been approached by several guides asking that it just doesn't make sense to them, I'd like to ask you if you could tell me why the guide that he's doing at the castle gets a compensatory bonus, and the one he's doing in front of the lock doesn't get it if you explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u29	Thank you. Now Mr Stanislav Juránek and then Mrs Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u30	Mr President, Madam Secretary, co-workers, when my wife sewed me this drape, and she's on it, she said to me: really be on the same boat. And the point of the amendment that the senators have given is that we don't forget one passenger who should be on that ship, too, and that's where the regions are. It's not just that there are entrepreneurs, that there are municipalities and cities, I dare say, but it's also about regions. There's one thing they've thought about, trying to find all the resources that really need to be compensated for, and they're verifiable, and based on a report from the Ministry of Finance, they invented a proposal for 300 crowns. [[Senators?]] That's some $3 billion if we round it up, and the D.O.D.'s talking about some $2.7 billion. Or maybe 2.8 billion, I don't know exactly how that number comes out right now. That means it's not an overkill request. And now I'm going to say why we should take these regions aboard in terms of compensation and what's actually going on with the coronavirus and the pandemic. You know, here it's forgotten that in the first line, other than the others, there's also the captains and their teams and the entire security system that's on the edge. And since the captains have never been thanked before, and now the election is over, I dare say thank you to all the captains who have borne this burden of theirs. But I also thank all the regions because they had to bear increased health costs. All the things relating to these matters were borne by the budgets of individual regions. And I'm asking you here, too, who are watching this, so that you really understand that the region was directly involved and involved in all the burdens associated with the coronavirus. And just to show you what it means. It's not just what happens to the coronavirus, but I'll give you an example of Bečva. There was a crash on Bečva. Someone has to pay for the crash. And that someone by the law is a county. That means the whole damage that's there, which is now on Bečva, and I don't really care who did or didn't do it, can be caused in any way, even by the random, so this damage will be paid by the county. And so it is in the coronavirus. The damage that was caused there, which will appear not only in health care, in the fact that they had to buy some other funds that were not counted in budgets, all of this has to be paid for by the county. And now I'm only asking for one thing. Let's at least try to be fair on this, because compensation through some subsidies - and I'm just gonna pull one thing out of them, and that's transport subsidies. If we're talking about the 4 billion that have been promised to the regions, and they should be right there within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, because it is a clear expenditure that is needed if we want to have road II in good condition. and III. classes, so it was even recognised during the debate with the Prime Minister and even calculated for two years not to be 4 and 4 billion, but it was estimated to be 12 billion, and this corresponds to about 6 billion so that regions could take care of such a basic thing as roads II. and III. classes. But I will return to the fact that it is fair now to vote in favour of the Senate proposal because it is the minimum. Definitely all the captains, whether those who were newly elected, would have been able to calculate in the councils that it was more than 3 billion, what the regions had to spend on extra coronavirus. And I'm not gonna talk about whether or not that item was to be taken from somewhere else. I'm just asking you again, let's try the one ship we're going on within the corona, accept the regions, accept those who are also in the front line through the captains and through the security system that we have set up this way, and try to approve the amendment that came from the Senate. I, for KDU-ČSL, state that we will definitely support the proposal in the form it came from the Senate, but, of course, if it does not pass, we will at least support those who have been recognised as fit to be on that ship, which means that we will definitely vote in the same way as we voted before in the Chamber of Deputies for the original parliamentary proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u31	I thank Mr Stanislav Juránek. Now, with the factual remark of Roman Onderka and she is still prepared with the priority right of the Minister of Finance. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond through the President to the honourable colleague Stanislav Juránek. Quote: We perceive the importance of rivers and streams for our landscape. The Ministry of Agriculture will therefore give over CZK 7 million to rebuild the Bečva river after the environmental accident and will also forgive fishermen rents for small water tanks. The aim is to help eliminate the consequences of the environmental disaster and restore life in the river as soon as possible. - I do not question the fact that the region will, without a doubt, provide funds and bail out this accident, but I would like to say that it is not the only one that Minister Toman sees this situation, as well as the Minister of the Environment, and that the government is undoubtedly dealing with this matter. So it's not as one-sided as you said. It's just a heads-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u33	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and now the Minister of Finance, Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic Alena Schillerová, will speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Juránek, that's what I'm remembering right now. All the answers you quoted are correct. I was listening carefully, I think you quoted from the Financial Administration website, or I don't know now, probably.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u35	I, Madam Secretary, will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace. But really. It's so loud in here. And I would like you to either take your seats and let the Vice-President of the Government respond to the debate, the debate is still under way, or bring the debates into the foyer. Just a little longer... Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So that's right. And the law is not a pasculi, Mr. Ferjenčík. He was written exactly as the political assignment was, that is, what was being followed, that is, to direct support to those who were really affected this time, was not so superficial. So if you're asking for a guide - and I just for your information, we've had some video conferencing with the mayor, where it was really on the edge of places and embarrassment, I dare say, with those guides I think, when the guides demanded - because mostly the problem is in Prague, the problem is from 90, maybe even more percent in Prague - they just demanded a few million. Prague, which has 75 billion in its account, could not release them. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] So in the end they will be compensated from COVID - Tourism, which is the Ministry of Regional Development. There is a condition for them to be compensated, i.e. they can't reach the compensation bonus, except for those who actually performed on some of those closed objects. But those who can normally do, just who we didn't shut down their business, just here aren't tourists in Prague, so they'll be compensated from this program -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u37	So I will interrupt you once again, and I will ask your party colleagues to respect the man to whom the word is given. Don't make me name an individual. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u38	So they will be compensated from this program. Madam Secretary put it there - now I may be free to paraphrase, she's not here because she's sick - that they have to not teach, that's not the right word, but to work in education for some time on some educational programs. We also proposed to them, and I consulted with the Minister of Education, these are educated people, language equipment, to help in education. We lack thousands of teachers. The teacher's average salary next year will be 45,450. But still, since the video conferencing conversations with the mayor didn't go anywhere, with all due respect, we decided to proceed like this. So that's why the answer. The answer's fine. Of course, those who would do something strictly in closed castles, so they fall under it, otherwise they will be compensated by COVID - Tourism, which is the process of the Ministry of Regional Development. There. I think that we will discuss the Prime Minister's amendments as a Member tomorrow, we will debate next week at the third reading, so we will have a great time, I am going to do it. But I'm just gonna ask. The fact that employees' taxes will be reduced so fundamentally, 4.5 million employees, Mr Jurečka - President Jurečka, I apologize - isn't that helping businessmen? Doesn't a whole bunch of businessmen have employees? A whole bunch of businessmen ask, writes, tells you, too, I know. They're asking you, when is it coming? We want to use it to negotiate pay. We don't want to raise salaries. That doesn't count. Basically, in the economy, it's based on our macroeconomic forecast for wage freezes. So I think the stimulus you asked about is that it's against businessmen, so I think it's gonna help a whole bunch of businessmen, because it's gonna be thousands of crowns that they're gonna get because of this. So we're gonna have a debate about that, and I'm sure we're gonna have a little bit more to talk about. There. Well, she's the government - and now I don't want to dig up any ditches between the municipalities, on the contrary. It's important to cooperate now. But, of course, the government is pulling a whole series of mandatorial expenses. And we didn't strangle the economy. We're valorizing pensions. We're adding to teachers. It froze the salaries of civil servants, that's true, because we consider it fair. We consider it fair if employees' salaries in the private sector do not increase to freeze - with the exception of the teachers we promised in the government's programming declaration - public sector salaries. And we are counting on you to raise your hand here on the Prime Minister's amendment as a Member, and that will give all employees the same, whether they are there or there. So that's the whole point. Otherwise, the calculator, Mrs Kovářová, does not correspond to the current prediction at all. There are overvalued impacts. Mr Polčák's kalkulačka, MEP. It's not okay. And I strongly warn, warn the mayors and various deputies not to be fooled. We are able to prepare, and we have it in a macroeconomic prediction, and of course we can each individually, if required, turn to the Ministry of Finance and get absolutely precise figures. So it's just a heads-up. I don't think I missed anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u39	I thank the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and raised five factual points. The first is a colleague Ferjenčík, then Jiránek, Juránek, Bartoš and Kovářová. Please, individually. Once again, before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to the Minister. First of all, I didn't quite understand why Mr. Hřib is bringing this up because we're talking about compensation for businessmen who, for some reason, can't do business right now. And you say-- well, if we forbid them, so good, they'll get something, even if we take the $5,000 from them for the drafts, but at least they'll get the $10,000. But when it just happened that coincidence, because there's a coronavirus crisis and related problems, they have no customers at all, so it's not bad luck for us, so we're not giving them anything. - We don't think this approach is logical. And secondly, just a comment that, as you said, you're making a tax change that will help everyone equally. Well, that's not entirely true. That's gonna add 70 to 100 grand to the MPs and a unit of thousands to the minimum wage. It's certainly not the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr. Martin Jiránek, Stanislav Juránek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u42	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. The arguments I've read, so I really have read them from your website, so they're correct. But you didn't answer my question, which I asked. I know that COVID - Travel agents, in which it is calculated for the decisive period from June to September with guides. But what we're talking about now is a compensatory bonus for this difficult period, which will take another six months in tourism. And there I just don't understand the logic in that the guide in the castle gets a compensation bonus for the next six months, three quarters of a year, I don't know how long it's gonna take, and the guide in front of the castle doesn't get that compensation bonus. You didn't respond to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Stanislav Juránek also for a factual remark, Ivan Bartoš will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u44	First of all, I would like to say technical, and that I voted 246 in the vote, in favour, and on high ground, I object. And I'm not asking that the vote be repeated, just for the record. And the second thing is that I just want to respond to my colleague Onderka, and I want to tell him that I was just setting an example that concerns accidents. And in general, by law, it simply applies by law that when an environmental accident occurs, whoever pays for it is the county. And the question is, is there anyone else who can compensate for this matter, for example, as you suggested here, that Bečva will be compensated by the Ministry of Agriculture. However, consider it as a matter of fact that I have only mentioned a specific case relating to accidents in general, and that this is the responsibility of the region and the region must always have the resources earmarked in the budget for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Bartoš, Mrs Kovářová, Mr Patrik Nacher, will be ready. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u46	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to react briefly, a little bit here from what the Minister said about the guides came up with this almost billboard password: School guides! But that may not be the solution to the crisis, especially in the area of guides before the castle, given that there is distance teaching and I don't know if we could make this transformation in the time of the covid crisis. I would just like to say one thing, why it is so important to make it clear here - and here it is always said who writes to whom and how citizens write to us - so that it is true that COVID - Rent is possible to draw in conjunction with 25. So we're going to tell all these people that it's possible that we have it confirmed here from the House, even though I didn't think it was clear from the interpretation. And about the drafts, I think that's a very fundamental issue, and we should sort this out in no time. And I'll read you what the lady who I found out existed, the e-mail, she's a specific person. Yesterday. "Good evening. I don't know if you realize what you've done with the so-called. middle class. Five hundred crowns a day. I'm gonna pay the health, social, rent for the establishment you guys shut me down, and I'm down. Okay, I'm gonna quit my business and go to the ÚP. The job is not, no one knows what it will be, and try to keep traffic and existing employees, unfortunately I have no strength for it anymore. Not even to watch the family suffer. They've got distance classes, and they're probably gonna shut down the Internet. I'm not even talking about losing home thanks to the government. Is someone gonna help me eat, or what am I supposed to do? We're at a loss. I'll welcome every piece of advice. Thank you for your answer." And that's one of the e-mails. They're not all this dramatic, but this is a situation for normal people who had a business and they just can't live with 10,000 crowns. They can't. Not even in the combination. I'm glad the combination has been heard, and we should forgive those charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Patrik Nacher will be ready. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u48	I would like to turn against what the Minister has said about the calculator, where municipalities can calculate the blackouts that will arise through some government measures. The prediction is from September. The cancellation of the supergross wage is based on the Ministry of Finance's explanatory report, and it should, the calculator serves to guide the mayors, how they can probably draw up their budgets and what kind of outages they can expect to get ready for it. It's nothing against the Minister or the Ministry of Finance, as I say, it's just for orientation. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] It's also interesting that if the secretary already knows because the calculator works for practically a few minutes, if you already knew about it, I'm very pleased. And I think if you feel it's wrong, let the Treasury do a calculator that has better readings, and then we can compare both calculators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher's point of view now. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura reports with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u50	Good afternoon. I have to respond to those guides because I was lucky enough to be at those meetings from the start. There it is about the fact that the situation in Prague is really atypical. Because, of course, these guides work all over the Republic and their problems are different. I'm just reminding you of the debate we've had here to prevent so-called. umbrellas. This applies only to Prague. We don't have the problem anywhere else. And then from the business tied up in the end, those two cards were like that. And here's the same thing. Prague is simply dependent on foreign clients. The fall in Prague is 90 percent, it's completely different than when I saw some statistics on the castle visits yesterday, for example, where it is just like last year or even more. That means, here's the deal that the state and, in this case, the capital will help those guides. And the result is that he helped the state and the capital did nothing in this, and I'm there. Neither from the project at home in Prague nor from anything else. Unfortunately, it's true. And if, on the one hand, we want here to be able to distinguish groups here according to how they were affected, then at the same time, the respective authorities must come up with that responsibility. And here I really am in this, and I'm as annoying about it as I am with the energy-smugglers to put them here, so with the guides, unfortunately in Prague they have no support from Councilwoman Třeštíková at this moment. The prize from Prague City Tourism may increase, ordering some services, but that's a vision from 1. 4. So just to actually measure all the same subway in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura, then colleague Bartošek. Mr. Ferjenčík's colleague after the performance of his colleague Stanjura. He didn't come forward until I gave the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u52	Thank you for the floor. First request to colleagues from Prague. Really solve the issue of Prague's representativeship at Prague's representativeship. By the way, Mr. Nacher knows, no councilman gives anything. Whatever his name is. It doesn't. According to the municipal law, the councilman can't do it, by the way. But let's not worry about it here! I want to get back to what we're discussing. And the guides are just one group that we seem to have forgotten. What changed against the spring compensation bonus? Firstly, the law which allowed minimum advances on health and social insurance to not be paid has ceased to apply. Minister Maláčová and Secretary Schillerová were very happy to tell us: Five thousand a month we have forgiven the tradesmen, what a help! And it was help. But it doesn't work anymore. That means, out of the $15,000 he's gonna get now, he's gonna pay $5,000 for minimum social security advances. So let's not talk about support for 15 grand, let's talk about support for 10,000 a month! That's reality. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Two. It's like the government forgot that they're businessmen who don't have a stone shop. Which, although no one forbids doing business, they do not have a job at this time. Who invites home painters, cleaning companies, etc. today when social contacts are to be restricted? How many of these businessmen suffer from a sharp drop in orders? Can they ask? They can't. I don't understand. But the key word for businessmen and their employees here said to the Minister: This was a political assignment. I don't know who, apparently, the YES and the ČSSD and the KSČM movement, so that the businessman has to choose whether to ask for support for the jobs of his employees, or for the 10,000 for his family, to pay at least the energy bills. That's no business support. So we didn't learn from spring, rather the other way around. The measure is not flat, which is fine, but it is too strict. What about the ones I was talking about who don't have a permanent establishment? They do not have it closed, but they are simply logically invited by government members and many opponents to really limit social contacts, on the other hand, it is hard to assume that these people will be ordering some services home. This is precisely against the recommendation of how we should behave in these weeks and months. So I don't really understand. [[16.40 hours]] I was the one Antivir was going to the government to get the government to realize that and come up with a novel. I know we can't solve this today, but the conditions are much worse! [[Big noise in the hall.]] There's a difference if I get 15 or 10,000 And what I'm saying is that we, as citizens' Democrats, knew about the problem. Already at the end of the holidays, we filed a bill so that at least by the end of the year minimum health and social advances for businessmen can be forgiven to extend Antivirus C so that employers do not have to pay social insurance for their employees by the end of the year. We voted about eight times! So we can't say that no one in the Chamber of Deputies has noticed. The opposition as a whole supported the discussion of these proposals. But I honestly say that the opposition as a whole, which means six parliamentary clubs, encouraged us to discuss this so that we can discuss it, and three - communists, socialists and the ANO movement - stubbornly refuse to help the smallest tradesmen and small firms. And then the secretary comes in and smiles and says, "We're doing it all for people and companies." But not for these people and not for those little companies. Unfortunately, that's a sad truth. Why don't you say, Madam Secretary, it's not 500 a day, but it's a third less because you have to pay social and health contributions from your decision, because you didn't want to extend those holidays where social and health are paid. And that was help that was not bureaucratic, which was fast and that really worked and really helped.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u53	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's point of order and then Mr Jan Bartošek's colleague. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u54	I just wanted to pause over my colleague Nacher's argument, because I find it really strange to blame the authorities for not financing a compensatory bonus from their budget for those who fail to reach the compensation bonus paid by the government, while the government is funding its programme from the government's money, such as from Prague. This means that the government has cut Prague's money as a region to have money for a compensatory bonus, and now you blame Prague's representatives and councillors for not financing the lack of government compensation bonus. I don't think that makes any sense. At least there should be one if Prague, like the county, didn't lose the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u55	Now, Mr Jan Bartošek, then Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová and then Mr Senator. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u56	Thank you for the floor. One has to wonder what would be the best feedback that what this government is doing really works. The response from entrepreneurs and businessmen that this aid has meaning is quick and their request is simple or a request for it. What's the reality? Completely opposite. You look like you're helping small businessmen and middle companies, but many of them are driven into bankruptcy by these steps. That means there's no help. You say you've given the municipalities that you've given the regions. Well, you didn't give them anything of yours! The spring shame you showed, when you tried to plunder the budgets of the municipalities and the budgets of the regions, when the municipalities managed to stop it, it was an incredible mischief against all the mayors who tried to get through the covid crisis of spring properly, paid everything, and as a reward from this government, it was shamefully grabbing the money of the municipal budgets. That means you didn't give anything extra. Not a penny! You gave the village what is rightfully theirs. Now we're squabbling about three hundred per capita for the county. Each of you in charge of the county, you know what regional budgets look like. And again, this government doesn't give anything extra. The government took the money first, and they're covering for him to write grant projects. Every governor, every regional council knows how and where money can be spent, does not need the Treasury or this government to dictate where money is to be spent. Let the regions be free. And if you don't like a calculator that, you say, counts wrong, I, Madam Secretary, offer you synergies. I would be happy to help you and my people build a calculator, how the government's actions were cut into the budget of the regions, namely Prague, how you took the money. And if you say you're giving them something - you're not giving them anything! All you have to do is leave to the regions what is rightfully theirs. Don't sell the fact that you're returning something to the county when you took it away from them before. The world is very simple. You took the money, and now you're pretending to give it back. Well, at least tell the truth towards those parts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u57	Now, Madam Secretary of Finance and Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. Mr. Senator Vilímec will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Why are we talking about Prague? We need to talk about Prague because Prague has not solved the problem of the guides that Mr Jiránek asked about. So the government just had to figure it out, the Ministry of Regional Development had to figure it out. I suspect there's some 40 grand in the subsidy program. crowns, if I'm not mistaken. And you say, Prime Minister Bartoš, school guides. Why not? Why couldn't they help? Why not school guides? I don't see anything wrong with it to help in education, to simply pass on their vast knowledge of the various fields, whether history, language and so on, in an area where we lack labour. That was an offer, that wasn't a warrant. Why not? How do we know how long this situation will last? Will it be resolved in January? I told them. Honestly, will the tourists return to Prague? We all know he's not coming back, he's not coming back in January. So let's not put honey around our mouths, let's look. We are facing an equally huge natural restructuring of the economy at a moment when we are simply gradually shutting down government support. And you all know that we still have a strict shortage of people in industry, agriculture, and many other segments, and they'll just be staying somewhere. And that army of people will move from one segment to another. Then why not the school guides? Sounds like a great idea to me. Notabene average salary there will be CZK 45,450 next year, I repeat. We'll do it on the budget tomorrow. And we had to get involved because the mayor called on us to a video conference several times. That's where he spit for a few million crowns, even if he's 75 billion. in the account. Prague received a compensation bonus, just like all municipalities received CZK 1,250 per head, it was about 1.8 billion, if I am not mistaken, to all the billions in its account. So what? And she'd still like to cross the country? You can't possibly be serious? [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] We were here in the spring comparing these compensations, all of which were flat - we're going to talk about the compensation bonus, but so are the others - and basically they weren't excluded except for some exceptions. This means that the tradesmen had both compensation bonus and infirmary. If they had children under the age of 13 in the spring adjustment, they could draw COVID - Rent, or, I don't know what, I may have forgotten something else. We forgot the minimum social and health for six months, which was about 30 thousand, and then those small companies were legally forgiven social with employees (?) up to 50 employees. You said yourself, President Stanjur, that you understand that this is not a flat one, but it seems strict to you. You have to define it into the law in some way, or we have defined it in a way that concerns those that we are - and I would remind you that the government is responding to a serious health situation, so let's still not forget it - essentially the government's measures have banned activities, and they have had more than 50 percent of the income from this activity, or most of the income, I have listed these examples here, or they have been bound by at least 80 percent of this activity. [[16.50 hours]] So many of the examples that you have given, Mr Jiránek, - and I will not repeat them for time reasons - have actually sat on it, so at the moment, yes, we did not want to take general measures, we have explained this several times here, and that is why we have given a choice of those different forms of support. And now, of course, we're looking at the maximum sight and all the activity on it, and that's going to be a debate in the coming days to manage this health situation, epidemiologically and we could gradually return the children to schools, that's the priority of the fundamental, first degree, of course, either first grade, second grade, or first degree, and then gradually turn on the economy. Of course, with respect to the Minister of Health's views, I underline that. So it was a fundamental comparison between spring and autumn. To the calculator, Mrs Kovářová. Well, the 2020 calculator's been there for months. I didn't try it myself, but I have colleagues looking at her, and she's so strange. In 2020, the municipality's revenue decline - only for municipalities - 20 percent, with the forecast of MF counting 8.5%, even now the new calculator for 2021 has been added, which assumes the abolition of the supergross wage, but also the compensatory bonus, which, on the contrary, we do not know at the moment whether there will be a compensatory bonus in 2021. So these are the reservations we have. I'm just pointing out, you referred to it here as something binding. So I say, that's not binding. Mr. President Bartošek, I take your challenge, which you have just had here. And I think I might have... One more tax discount, one last thing. Now, as soon as I get back to the office, after the vote, I'm looking at nothing here today, so I'm going back to the office, and I'm going to send, like I promised last week, because I got back to work yesterday, and I didn't like the way it's visualized, and I'm going to send you the effects of all the amendments to the tax package - members of the budget committee - to see what the implications are, what graphs are there, which is how convenient. And it's not like that with the tax discounts. As the study of EVERYTHING came out last week, I have been in it for a long time, almost one whole night, and basically there is a comparison with the Prime Minister's amendment as a Member, in essence, at a situation of 19, 23, when the discount will be some over 46,000 and the budget is completely comparable, so it is more advantageous there. But we do not have such a proposal in the Chamber of Deputies. Not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u59	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. My colleague, Senator Vilímec, will wait a little longer, he knows our Rules of Procedure well because I have three factual points - Mr Jiránek, Mr Kovářová and Mr Stanjura. So, Senator, just a little while longer, Mr. Martin Jiránek with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u60	Thank you. I'm not gonna have this conversation about the guides anymore. I'm just gonna make it up to you real quick. Just so we're clear about the scholarship fund, that's really ten o'clock, it's not about anything else. As you said, the economic restructuring, I understand. Entrepreneurs need a view. It is therefore a clear signal for entrepreneurs, for a guide under the castle, that guides in the castle can survive thanks to the compensation bonus. Those who perform in front of the castle should therefore go to the employment office, because we have restructuring to do. I'll take that as an argument. It's all about sending a clear signal, because these people are getting nothing from now on, and I understand, but it needs to be said. And the one about Prague. There are a bunch of guides outside Prague and there are also guides who perform - and unfortunately they are not even included in the subsidy of the Ministry for Regional Development - Bohemia abroad, there are also quite a lot of them and they do not fall under any subsidy of the Ministry for Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, with a factual remark, will prepare Zbyněk Stanjura, also with a factual remark. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'd probably go back to Prague for a little while, too. I just have to say, yes, Prague is judged as a community and received money, but did not receive money as a region. And again your argument: Prague has 75 billion in its accounts, so what, so it just doesn't need the money. But Prague awaits huge, huge investments as a region. And so when you talk about the support for the regions and you promise them on the regional roads, you just have to say that for Prague, Prague just doesn't have regional communication, so she won't touch her money. And among other things, as far as I know, Prague is suffering greatly from what is happening now, and in this crisis it is greatly affected, and I think the Ministry of Finance knows that too. And that the magistrate and city districts also forgive the rent and try to help the businessmen as much as they can. So if you want to help Prague, dear colleagues, support the Senate version and help our capital as well. As for the calculator, you were talking about the old calculator, and of course the calculator is adapted in such a way that it is in variants with a compensatory bonus, without it, and it also counts on canceling the supergross wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u63	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Even though there's noise, I'm not interrupting those who have a factual remark because I'd take their time, I'd have to measure it extra. But really, fellow Members, try to respect the Rules of Procedure. It's the law, and it gives the chance to speak to those who get the word, and it gives them a proper turn-on. If he's discussing other things, please in the foyer. I will now measure the time to make a factual remark to President Zbyněk Stanjur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u64	And it's on. Thank you. I was surprised to see the Minister's understanding of the word "planning measures." The way I see it, it affects everyone. And the secretary will say, you understand that this isn't supposed to be across the board, so we rule out individual types of support. And that has nothing to do with the coverage or targeting of the aid. Here in this debate, many of us have pointed to illogical cases that the public does not understand. He doesn't get it when you have two of the same businesses that one can draw on employees, and the other can't, just according to the legal form. Try explaining it to someone when the businesses are on one street, that you help one and give the other 10,000 a month to pay for the energy bills. And maybe there'll be some COVID backwards - rent. So what bothers me here is that the government here isn't willing to acknowledge any of the ground people's arguments at all. [[Nesroz.]] Everything that the government proposes is brilliant, brilliant, excellent for people and businesses, and everything that tradesmen and entrepreneurs write, they don't understand, they're not people, they probably don't have companies, instead of having a rational debate about what's effective, what's appropriate, which instrument has proven itself and which has failed. By the way, the commission we set up for the COVID evaluation recommended unanimously, as well as the votes of the ANO movement, to extend, for example, the remission of social insurance to companies up to 50 employees. But the government knows better what's right and what's wrong. And then eventually he steals it, it's possible, it happens to us, he presents it as his own program and then PR is done about how he does it right. I look forward to discussing super gross wages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u65	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now the factual remark of Jiří Bláha and it is the last one so far, then is signed in by Senator Vilímec. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate. I think it's good for all those affected to know that each of us is not indifferent to how they live and how they live. I would just like you to write down three more things in your notes that are troubling businessmen or employers at the moment, and that is in the first place that those who have been closed or restricted must pay sick people even though they are not earning money. The employer will pay for the first two weeks. It's closed. What's she supposed to pay for? He's got nothing to do with it. The fact that they have to pay the holiday is closed or limited is a holiday, and nothing, no Antivirus, absolutely, will be paid again by the employer. [[17,00 hours]] And what's very important to say is that those who were locked up in the spring and are locked up now, so those employees won't be working for six months, but the employer still has to pay the whole vacation. So many companies don't even pump Antivirus because they have to give these people vacations, they must be exhausted by the end of the year. And since one restriction simply ended at the beginning of July and the other began in mid-October, logically, those people could not exhaust their vacations. So these are huge sums that you can't even imagine, because one employee costs about 40 to 50 grand a month. So just figure out what it's like when a company has, like, 20, 30, 50, 200 employees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u67	Thank you. Mr. Senator Vilímec is now logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u68	Madam Minister, honourable Members, the Senate could, of course, have had a greater ambition to intervene more strongly in this bill. He did not do so knowing the situation we are in. It merely proposes to allow the compensation bonus to be compatible with the rent payment, respectively. with the aid intended to cover the rent. I do not remember the Minister raising any significant objections to this Senate proposal. I don't remember. As far as the regions are concerned, the Minister has not actually stated or promised the Senate to support this proposal. It stated that it is not a Member and cannot vote on the proposal. It's very simple. However, it was concluded from her speech that she would think very seriously about supporting this proposal, that she was in favour of this proposal and that she did not actually have any expert arguments as to why it would not be possible to enforce and approve the aid of CZK 300 per capita regions. You know, the regions are already the guarantor of a whole range of public services today. They also have to cope with the decline in income for these providers, which brings increased demands on regional budgets. I don't know why the Secretary of State has now chosen this purely renegade approach to compensation, whether she has decided to fight the county or fight the Senate. The Senate did not intend to fight the Ministry of Finance or the Chamber of Deputies. He sought an honest and carefully reasonable proposal to help the regions and, of course, the citizens who live and live in the regions. I am quite disappointed with the Minister's approach here in the Chamber of Deputies because she has chosen an approach that I did not expect, more or less and priori rejecting. Those 3 billion crowns, I don't want to debate whether he has the money or not in the general treasury, in the government's budget reserve. When the state budget was approved, there were 111 billion crowns in the government's budget reserve. How much is left now, I have no idea, I have no information. Look, the proposal that the Senate made to compensate the regions was made with the knowledge of the Ministry of Finance in an effort really to approve the proposal so that the compensation would help the regions. As nothing more can be said. If the secretary doesn't see it, if she's decided to fight the county, I'm disappointed. And I think it's useless and it's not a dignified finance minister or a dignified Treasury. I am now addressing you, honourable Members, because I know that the Minister cannot vote. Feel that when the State intervened in this way in the budgetary determination of taxes, in the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, it intervened in the autonomous development of tax revenues of regions, taxes on income from dependent activities, so it is logical that, in part, these outages should be compensated by the State. It's polite, it's serious. And I ask you to support this proposal, because the purpose of the Senate was to put forward a proposal that the Chamber of Deputies can support. I am convinced that we have found such a compromise, and I am asking you and I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u69	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. The Minister has no interest in the final words, nor does the Senator. We've come close to voting. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in relation to the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus under the Parliamentary Press 1055/2, as approved by the Senate, according to the House of Press 1055/3.' We are ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 248, registered by 173 Members, for 79, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The number we need is now set. The resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in relation to the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus, as referred to by the Senate, according to the Parliamentary Press 1055/2.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 249, registered in 176 Members, in favour of 172, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr Senator, and with priority rights, Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u70	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to delay, but among the points I would like to call on Minister Blatný, the Minister of Health, to do what I claimed here during the discussion of the programme, and I would like to ask politely if he could answer such a mystery of the last few days, why so greatly the proportion of tested coronavirus decreased. I think there's a lot of things coming or coming up with such a question as to whether in this case there's a possibility that there's a purpose. It would therefore be appropriate for such doubt to be excluded here as well. I think it is a very important factor to monitor the evolution of the epidemic. And it looks optically, as I said before, optically it looks like the numbers of the infected are falling, but the moment we look at the rapid decline in the number of tests, of course, it's a far-fetched optical illusion. So I would like to ask the Minister whether he, with his priority right, could respond very simply, briefly to this question, which is here. It is often not possible to place it in any of the points. Therefore, I do not want to break the Rules of Procedure and ask him to answer this question, which is increasingly concerned with the public and certainly not one of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-10-ps2017-062-07-001-511.u71	Thank you. Now, let's look at the point.
