ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another day of session adjourned by the 40th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you all out first, and I'm going to ask everyone to sign up with their ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Bartoň votes with replacement card number 6. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Martin Baxa from 18.15 for working reasons, Jiří Běhounek until 17.30 - working reasons, Petr Beitl - working reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - health reasons, Bojko Marian - family reasons, Jan Čižinský - no reasons given, Tomáš Hanzel - personal reasons, Pavel Jelínek - health reasons, David Kasal - health reasons, Jiří Kobza - family reasons, Martin Kolovratník - family reasons, Miroslava Němcová from 14.30 to 15.30 - working reasons, Monika Oborná - working reasons, Ladislav Okleštěk - health reasons, Marie Pěnčíková - family reasons, Zdeněk Podal - working reasons, Ivo Pojezný - working grounds, Věra Procházková - foreign trip, Karel Schwarzenberg - health reasons, Karel Tureček - foreign travel, Vácha - family reasons. Mr Beitl withdraws his apology, he is present. Members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - personal reasons, Klára Dostálová - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - working reasons at 16 o'clock. Until 15.00, Mr Michálek apologizes for his work. With the replacement card number 18, Mr Leo Luzar votes. We've got 11. 2nd and birthday today is celebrated by our precious colleague Robert králíček. So, happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose to eliminate the following items of the approved programme first: Point 211, House Press 111 - Constitutional law on national referendum, third reading; Point 221, House Press 582 - Consumer protection, third reading; Rule 223, Election point - changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. That's for elimination. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to be included in an approved programme: draft law amending Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic, House press 69/12 - rejected by the Senate; draft law amending Act No. 211/2000 Coll., on the State Housing Development Fund and other related laws, House printing 412/5 - rejected by the Senate; draft law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, and some other laws, House print 214/8 - returned to the Senate; draft law amending Act No. 445/1991 Coll., on Trade Business - Trade Law, as amended, and other related laws, House press 247/8 - returned by the Senate; the draft law amending certain laws on the regulation of entrepreneurship in the financial market, the House's press 398/5 - returned to the Senate; draft law amending Act No. 11/1994 Coll., on Road Transport, as amended, House Press 431/5 - returned to the Senate; draft Act on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination, House press 451/5 - returned to the Senate. The relevant legal time limits will be fulfilled on Thursday 13 February. Thirdly, the Grémium proposes to begin today's negotiations with the following items from the first reading block - laws, the so-called opposition window: Point 131, Parliament's Press 446 - setting-up of companies; 176, House printing 652 - aid in material distress; paragraph 74, House printing 180 - regulation of advertising; paragraph 174, House printing 649 - elections to Parliament; paragraph 75, press 182 - sickness insurance; paragraph 125, House printing 418 - damage caused in the exercise of public power; the last point in the block of the opposition window would be point 92, House printing 254 - income tax, proposal from the ODS workshop. Fourthly, the Grémium suggests: Wednesday 12. 2. At 12:30 we have fixed voting points, which means paragraphs 224, 225 and 226. In the case of the second round of the Ombudsman's election, this election would take place on Wednesday at 18.00. Fifth grémium proposes to sort points from block laws 3rd reading in the following order: paragraphs 212, House print 411; 214, House print 229, 213, House print 360; 215, House print 230; 216, House print 516; 217, House print 530; 219, House print 555; 220, House print 580. For the sixth grémium, it proposes to return the report to the block, the proposals, paragraph 233, the Parliamentary Press 444 - the Ombudsman's report on the Ombudsman's activities, which was firmly included on Thursday 13. 2nd to 11 o'clock. After point 291 of the written interpelation we propose to continue points from the block of the contract 1st reading. Finally, for the seventh time, to cross out points 13, second reading, and 222, third reading of the House's press 438 - the vote is not taken because a group of plaintiffs has withdrawn the bill. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And now there are several applications for the agenda. Mrs Rutová votes with the replacement card number 16. More apologies. Vice-President Petr Fiala apologizes between 14.00 and 15.30 for reasons of work, Mr Petr Venhoda apologises from 14.00 to 14.30 for health reasons. That's all. And now for the agenda. First up is President Marian Jurečka. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I will ask my colleagues to take their seats in the hall, and I will ask for peace of mind, so that we can hear the motion on the agenda. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I come with a request. I would like to propose the inclusion of a point relating to the current issue of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where the Minister, as many of you have certainly registered, comes up with a proposal for a new law on housing additions. On the one hand, this bill has a godly goal, but it completely misses its effect. I must say that it is important for us, for KDU-ČSL, to address the problem of business with poverty. It is necessary to address the issue of excluded localities, the issue of unavailable housing, overpriced, missing social housing. But we believe that the form chosen by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in the case of the bill is extremely unfortunate, and because it can be concerned if this proposal really comes into effect and into practice, hundreds of thousands of people in the Czech Republic and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u3	I'll ask everyone to stay calm in the hall. Please take your seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u4	Thank you. And it concerns a really large number of people, including those people, families and households that we cannot identify as those who abuse the welfare system. They're people who work. Unfortunately, people are often very low-income, socially endangered, at the border of poverty. I have some specific reasons here that I would like to mention why I am asking that this item be included in order for Members to be informed of this intention, because I also register that there are major reservations about this material from other ministries such as the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and other departments as well as other departments in the inter-ministerial review procedure. There is such a godly point proposed here, and that is that in the absence of children over a hundred hours of school attendance, this contribution would not be paid. There is no solution to the question of how doctors will approach this, the reasons for the lack of health. There's no deal with the health sector. It is also obvious that the MPSV will resign at this point in time to prepare a real system tool, and therefore to address the issue of social housing, including legislative support in this area. And we here, more or less with this proposal, which Minister Maláčová is pushing now, will achieve that although fewer people will receive this dose, but including seniors, and then the law will really start to throw people into poverty and into poverty without shelter, and will drive them out on the street. Unfortunately, the Minister does not heed the really rational comments that are here from representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities, where mayors point out that this is not a solution, it is merely a transfer of the problem to the level of mayors, mayors, to the level of municipalities, to the level of municipalities. Of course, the new proposal for the calculation of this benefit is very special, because the new housing levy should be established on the basis of... [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, it's really very difficult here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u5	I ask you repeatedly to remain calm in the hall! If you have anything to do with this, please go to the lobby. The meeting has already begun. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u6	Thank you. Newly, the housing levy should be set on the basis of an average of 10 per cent of the lowest rental prices in the municipality. For example, in Litvínov, a maximum of 10 CZK per square metre is expected to be charged for determining the amount of the new levy. In some municipalities it is only 3 crowns per square metre and the price in Liberec is expected to amount to 84 crowns per square metre. Market rent is twice as high. As a result of this measure, 60 per cent of current beneficiaries of the housing allowance may be put at risk, significantly worse at a time of record-growing rents and lower than their rents. It's just a really significant deterioration of the situation. And once again, for people we can't identify as drug abusers and housing contributions as such. It's also in a situation where we've been having cases lately, when moms and kids for relatively minor violations of some conditions, when they want to support their family, they're singles, so they're threatened to find themselves on the street. These are other cases that at this point would mean that these single women, even if they were trying to work, would end up on that street very quickly. So I would like to ask if my fellow Members here would support the proposal to include this point, so that we can hear the Minister's intention to proceed further in this area, and we can also talk about how to really tackle this problem in essence, not the wrong way to address the consequences, and to throw the problem first of all to the mayors of cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. Thank you for supporting this proposal. And I would like to propose that it be included on today's day after point No. 125. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u7	Well, thank you. The President of Chvojka applied with priority rights. However, another application for the agenda is President Pekarová Adamová, who also has priority rights. So after her, Mr. Chairman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you to add a new point to the agenda for this meeting. Last week, quite quietly, without any greater interest, the government approved an action against the European Commission. This point, which has now been covered by the dust of many other events that are happening at the Ministry of Transport, or with beer foam, and with regard to the debate on how we actually charge VAT, is, however, very crucial and I think we should not allow it to overlap with the very new events. Although the government claims that it is about the principle - Prime Minister Babiš, who was not at the time of the vote, says it is not his business that it is a question of lawyers. However, we as the Chamber of Deputies to the Government under the Constitution of Article 68 have, of course, the power of control, virtually. The government is responsible to us under this article, and we therefore have the right to ask why it decided this way and whether it really sees the interests of one company, one holding company - Agrofert as the interests of the Czech Republic. Whether she's already put an equal between these interests. I think, therefore, that we should have a discussion on such a serious matter and should not go unnoticed. The crucial message that we have given to our partners within the European Union has been given by the government, and we have the opportunity to distance ourselves from it as the Chamber of Deputies. So either we can translate it in such a way that the Prime Minister's business is not to be touched, we will not have it as the Czech Republic, or we can express ourselves as the Chamber of Deputies to distance ourselves and that we do not see the conflict of interest that was clearly stated in Andrej Babiš's case as a matter with which we are in agreement. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Ministers for Social Democrats have already expressed themselves in the vote. But all of us who are not members of the government and who, as the Chamber of Deputies, have the right to ask, should therefore express our positions. And, of course, you can also ask the ministers in the debate what led them to this vote and whether they would have voted in this way, even if this were the issue of a company other than Agrofert directly. I guess we're all answering that question somehow. But I'd like to know the answer to those responsible. And that's why I want to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u9	I'll stop you for a moment. For the third time in a row, I beg you all to take your seats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u10	Thank you. Therefore, I would like to ask you to include a new point in the meeting, namely tomorrow, tomorrow afternoon as the first point. That item would be entitled The position of the Chamber of Deputies on the Czech Republic's action against the European Commission on subsidies for Agrofert holding. I believe that you are also interested in a number of matters relating to this action and will be interested in asking Members from government parties, respectively. in particular, ministers from government parties. And I believe, therefore, that we care to have the opportunity to express ourselves, and not by silence, to actually agree to this process of government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u11	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka. Then with priority rights, President Stanjura and signed up with priority rights, Minister Toman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u12	Good afternoon, colleagues. I would like to respond to the President Jurečka's proposal. I would like to veto it on behalf of two MPs, the ČSSD and the ANO movement, for a pretty simple and simple reason, logical perhaps even. The proposal is still in the interreort. Yeah, there's a lot of talk about him, but we do know that what's in the interreort doesn't even have to come to the House if it doesn't, or it can come with big changes. Let's keep the debate, if this proposal comes here, first reading, second or third reading. But this seems pretty premature and pointless to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u13	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. It will allow President Jurečka's speech on this - we are talking about the inclusion of a new point, information of the MPSV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u14	Thank you. I would like to respond to the President of the ČSSD Chvojka parliamentary club, because it is, of course, the right to veto the proposed point, but I think it is important to point out that Minister Maláčová strongly said that she insists on her proposals for this legislative regulation, that she is determined in this form to bring it to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, although even the Ministry of the Interior, where your President is ČSSD, gave this opinion significantly critical comments, so I think that, at the moment when we are talking about such a serious issue, which affects several hundred thousand people in the Czech Republic, it concerns the long-term unresolved issue of abuse of benefits, unsolved socially excluded localities, inaccessible housing, so I think that the point is serious enough to be discussed here at the House. I understand your right, and I am not going to do anything about it at this point, but I think it would be a good idea for the Minister of Social Democracy to face this and to propose some meaningful solutions in this area, not to make arguments that he is making this proposal to force his coalition partners to look for a truly rational solution to the substance of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. [[Ambassador Chvojka wants to get off.]] We're still blocking Minister Toman, I remind you. He's also privileged. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u16	I'm sorry, I just wanted to respond. I completely understand the request made by President KDU-ČSL, but I repeat, as former Prime Minister, I know that if there is something in the inter-departmental area, it is still going to the LRV, to the government, it can really change, I am not saying any parameters, and if there is a will after any changes. That's not what I'm saying, but it can happen, and that's why I really find your desire to discuss something that isn't basically in the legislative process, so I feel useless. Just really - let's leave it to it, if the law comes here, if it passes by the LRV, by the government, here to the House by first reading, then we can discuss it, and surely Minister Maláčová will be happy to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u17	Thank you. Now, then, President Stanjura, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, someone is simply a lucky child, and at this point it is Minister Maláčová, that thanks to the chaos at the transport resort, which I will be talking about in a moment, it is a bit forgotten about the chaos of the MPSV. These are not just her absurd proposals for housing benefits. This is also a scandalous proposal, a scandalous amendment to the Social Services Act, which is also an overpriced IT contract for the MPSV, and this is how I could continue, but it will certainly come to that. It's a shame we won't vote on it. We would certainly support the proposal put forward here by President Jurečka, because, as an experienced politician, I know that when it comes from the government, you will have a coalition agreement, Members logically, every coalition government is doing it, supporting the government proposal, and there will simply be no room for rational debate, especially with your minister, who is not famous for her willingness to compromise, I think we can all publicly say that. But back to why I actually volunteered. I know that point will be vetoed, I've been notified by President Faltýnek, I fully respect that, but that doesn't solve the problem. As such, I would say the sweetheart has been promised to us that Mr. Busy Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Everything, the expert on everything, will come, will tell us his views, maybe he will stay, maybe he will leave, but at least the members of the Economic Committee, members of the Transport Sub-Committee, who are not equipped with priority rights, and it is the vast majority of these colleagues and colleagues sitting in the specialised bodies of the House, will not have a chance to intervene in this debate, so it is not completely balanced and completely fair. But I understand where the arguments are missing, so then there's fear of the debate. I quite understand. However, I will propose a new point, which would be called the Situation in the Department of Transport. You'll be surprised, the motive isn't so much a media-sponsored contract for electronic road signs, I'd say it's just the last drop or the icing on the cake, or whatever we call it. The motive is not even the strange performance of the former minister, the great manager who was brought into the position of Andrej Babiš. Remember - we said: who is it, we have never heard of it? That's the great manager to pack suitcases in nine months with the manager failing, so answer yourself how great the manager was. It's a fact that in nine months he had three director of ŘSD. That's not bad management, in quotes. Three in nine months. That's about the only thing I remember about his involvement at the Department of Transport, except for the photos on the piles of salt. However, I would like to say that we should not forget the Prime Minister's words from the interceptions, when the Prime Minister was present, when my President Petr Fiala intersected him, and when the Prime Minister said it - I quote it freely, but if you insist on the exact wording, I quote it from the screen record: I drive it, not Havlíček, I'm online with the director of ŘSD and SŽDC as well as the Czech Railways, and now I'm building the Baťův Channel, myself. So I am quite logical about this, that the situation at the Ministry of Transport is primarily caused by the Prime Minister, and not - I know that Mr Havlíček likes the designation of superminister, who wouldn't like it, but as far as transport is concerned, I would say that he is a semi-minister. I think that transport does not need a part-time minister, although I support the generally shortened part-time work, but the whole chaos with the fact that the former Minister of the ANO movement - so that we don't forget it, because now the Prime Minister says: Kremlík, Kremlík, wait, he has never actually been with us, he hasn't been a member, and he's not there anymore. And two more months, and the Prime Minister will no doubt say, Kremlík, I don't know him, I don't know who it was to be within notice, two months of being in the way. That's what the Minister could tell us when he gets his act, which smart head invented it, that the Minister is on the line. I'd like to see the contract signed with Mr. Kremlík. President of the Republic? Prime Minister? Himself? I don't know. And that just sums up the mess that's there. We have decided as citizens' democrats and we offer this to fellow Members from other Houses of the Party that tomorrow we will organize a tour of Members to the Ministry of Transport to see if they are even working there. It's glowing when you walk by, but we don't know who's glowing. And if it's working, if those Department of Transport employees are even involved. I listened carefully to the first public appearance of Minister Havlíček, and I feel that he won the election, and after eight years of criticism from the opposition, he finally sat on the desired chair. He will carry out audits of all the above-mentioned, and not only of the above-mentioned, even of all the sublime contracts, he will write a tender for all the Deputys, all of them, he will check all fifteen subordinate organizations of the Ministry of Transport, and, as he said, this ministry needs deep structural changes. Nice start of opposition policy - if he comes from opposition. I would have waited if he was serious, if he had come up on the microphone and said, "Ladies and gentlemen, we did it all wrong." For six years, the ANO movement has really underestimated the resort. All my predecessors have failed, and now I'm here to clean up. I'll do the audits, replace the Deputys, check out the 15 companies. It doesn't really have to, when the Prime Minister is running them online, the less he has to do, so maybe the part-time isn't entirely out of the question when he drops out of control of ŘSD, SŽDC, České dráhy and I don't know who else, and Baťův's channel is building the prime minister, he doesn't have to do it, the Danube - Odra - Labe to please the President, so we're gonna throw away some millions for some pointless studies. But it's just not like that. So our motivation is not to debate one botched contract. By the way, I listened to the Minister on Czech Television last week, when he actually said under opposition politicians' pressure in the debate: The contract went according to the law, I am sure of it. All right, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'll take your word for it. But your boss, your prime minister, is filing a criminal complaint. And that's not gonna work out for me anymore. Prime Minister says this is some weird, criminal complaint, chop. And the vice prime minister, the minister of everything, says, everything went according to the law. [[14.30 hours]] I don't know where the truth is. But if I had to take the logic higher, the Prime Minister is right, and the Minister is wrong. Or maybe the Minister is right, everything went according to the law. And I know the resolution of the Security Committee and so on, I know the resolutions, the public outputs of the commission, our BIS review committee, and they all claim that everything was legal. I guess the Prime Minister is distracting, so we need to bring a little chaos into it. My colleague Jan Bauer correctly said in the same TV debate that there are only two steps left for the Prime Minister to file criminal charges against Mr Kremlík and Mr Kremlík on the Prime Minister. The circle closes, chaos, no one knows about it, and the Prime Minister - what? He's working it out. He almost programmed it on the hackathlon, was looking, the perpetrator at the crime scene went to see how those who dealt with what he did. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] But let's go to the real problems of the Ministry of Transport. I'm sorry, because I don't think the Department of Transport is a typical resort for a political duel of the government versus the opposition. This four-year term of office is too short to change every new government's priorities in transport. Then we would never build anything. And there are other resorts, other areas where the political views of the right, the left, the government and the opposition intersect completely logically. After all, transport needs some stability at least in building planning. The figures over the last six years, in the vast majority, have been years with solid economic growth, where tax revenues have increased, and unfortunately, the share of expenditure on transport infrastructure has decreased in terms of GDP, or in view of the total expenditure of the state budget. That's the first thing we should be discussing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please be very quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u20	If that point passes and is included, we have resolutions prepared that are not, you may be surprised, somehow critical, certainly not personal, but are going to do what you do in that resort. One of the proposed resolutions would be if we had the chance, as if we would not have it, that the Chamber of Deputies is calling on the government or governments to invest at least 2,5 percent of GDP in transport infrastructure from the perspective of 3% of GDP. If I recount it and round it up a little bit, it should be from 140 billion to 180 billion a year. And then we can expect a really significant leap in completed investment in transport infrastructure. At the same time, we wanted to call on the government to keep our heads, as well as the public's painting of the motorways to be created in 2050. It's very simple. In 2020, we're arguing about highways to be in 30 years. Unless the new construction law extends the preparation of the construction from 12 to 30 years, then it would make sense. And that, I hope, is not the aim of the amendment we already have on the agenda and we already have it on the committees. So we wanted to call on the government to focus on completing those highways that are long ago drawn, which are built up, because when there are too many priorities, there are no priorities. For us, for civil democrats, I say that we see two key priorities in the area of transport infrastructure. The second connection between Moravian and Czech regions, in other words D35, and the road circuit around Prague, which we do not see at all as a matter of Prague or Prague and Central Bohemia, but necessary for the whole Republic and the entire transport network. These should be the key priorities of the state. And even on this point, we had a resolution prepared to stand there with all the strength and attention. If we chase all the highways, I understand. Each region has an important construction. Even us in the Moravian-Silesian region, and I could pour it out here one by one, and then a colleague of Mr. Birke from Hradec Králové or Ivan Adamec and colleagues from Karlovy Vary would come along and we could continue like this. But when there are too many priorities, there's really no priority. And if you look at that map that I think is still hanging in the Department of Transportation's office, I don't know if you ever work there or not, and you look at those built-up highways, it's like spilled tea. We've all started, and none is actually finished. And that's a big problem. We also wanted to talk about contracts in the transport department in general. The toll system, the toll auditor of the system, which is written out, is actually canceled or complicated. We don't think we can plan like this. We were gonna ask. The Minister has dealt with a Polish colleague, commendable, because of D11 but I would expect you to have a chance to speak with a Polish colleague, that you will also lose time with a debate about high-speed rail and connections, for example. from our region to Poland. And I could go on like this. That's not underestimating the Minister's abilities. We believe that this is a full-time job at the moment and that it cannot be handled by the MPO with the heavy tasks that the MPO has ahead of it. I think it is a good thing that there is a political consensus on the construction of new nuclear units, but I think we are moving extraordinarily slowly. And the successful implementation doesn't matter to us as much as whether we negotiate it outside the borders of the Czech Republic. We're not completely free in this. We will need the consent of the European Commission. We know how long it took the Maďar, how long it took the Brit, and according to the information I have at my disposal, maybe I'm wrong, we're actually at the very beginning of the process. And it won't be easy. We have strong opponents in Europe. You have to admit that. When I say we have, it's not an area or a problem that would divide the House into government and opposition. Luckily. I think that if not all of them, the vast majority of clubs support this idea. So we don't have to convince ourselves inside that it's a good thing. We've already agreed on that. We just need to move it forward. And we just can't imagine that this can be handled by one person. Even though the Prime Minister runs it online. I'll take that as an exaggeration. I don't take this seriously, because it's certainly not the premier's competence or his daily agenda. It's logical that he has responsibility for his ministers. Every Prime Minister has that. Responsibility for all members of the government, no matter what the Prime Minister's name or his name is, and from which political party or movement he was. And it's a shame we don't want to spend time on it. However, I will suggest that we discuss this today after the point that has been put in the STAN opposition window, that is, before the point that we, as civil democrats, would propose to the opposition window. If this doesn't work out, I suggest we do it tomorrow afternoon after the fixed points. Of course, if this is vetoed, we are aware that this will not be voted on. However, I have a feeling that you are in vain to defend yourself, and the moment you bring us up to speed, all we have to do is call a meeting. And it's a shame. We could've done it today, as long as it's an up-to-date topic, so we can figure out how to get on with the traffic so that the resort can finally recover. And please don't forget the offer of the field trip together. Why do I say "together"? Because I think that, in particular, the members of the Economic Committee and the members of the subcommittee might be interested. I think others might be interested. President Faltýnek is also, of course, invited to attend. We're gonna take a tram, 15th, and then we're gonna walk off Long Street, so we don't even have to order a bus. We're not going to burden the environment to calm the Minister of the Environment, and it's not going to be a special line, but a regular line that runs once every ten minutes. Because otherwise we'll still see the billboards that promise highways, highways, highways, then we'll look at reality, the priorities, and we'll see that the deed has escaped. And just to remind you, Andrej Babiš has appointed a great manager three times as Minister of Transport. I took the job and found the Prime Minister's words when he put Minister Prachař, Minister Ťok and Minister Kremlík into office. Like a copycat. Now here comes a great manager who's gonna solve all this. They all left involuntarily or almost involuntaryly. If I wanted to be sneaky, I'd say shame. [[14.40 hours]] One more thing we'd like to discuss, whether it's today or at an emergency meeting. We here together, Members, adopted, more than a year ago, the Parliamentary amendment to Act No. 416, in a simplified manner, on speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure and the other one. And we've docked, I'd say even against the will of ministers, two new institutes, and that's the fiction of consent and preliminaries. We do not have an evaluation, although at the time it was promised by the then minister that within a year and a day it would bring statistics on whether the institutes proved to be useful, whether they were used in practice by large investor organisations such as Railway Administration and ŘSD, so that we could know whether we hit it or shot it in the wrong direction. We have no analysis, but we have another amendment to Act 416. I don't know if government MPs, but we often draw opposition from eKLEP, and we often read the opinions of the Legislative Council of the Government. And when the former Head of the Legislative Council of the Government and also the Coalition Member spoke, I would ask President Chvojka to read the opinion of the current President of the LRV on Amendment 416. Yes, it is extremely long, extremely critical - now I just imagine what it would say if it were written by the opposition and not by its own ministers - and extremely unfavorable. Yet the law is here. I didn't study the government vote, but it's probably a coalition agreement. It's a paquilas. And once again, we have a new decoy, and some of us will say with a serious face, "Let's change the law and we'll get there." And I think that all of us, not just the Economic Committee, but the Special Economic Committee, should want to see if the fiction of consent and preliminaries were even used? How many buildings? Whether it really helped, or we all applauded that the law was passed by about 200 Members out of 200. I don't remember exactly, but I think there were almost more votes for than there were. No one opposed it. And we don't really know how it works. These are real transport problems that we would like to debate. It's just a request, it doesn't have to fall on fertile soil. Minister, consider your performance tonight. I don't think this is a dignified debate to give us your point of view, and colleagues can't respond. Consider it. It's a request. I think that... Let us look together for a time when we will have enough time, where Members who are really engaged in this debate can also be involved, not just those with priority rights. You don't have to believe me, but we really don't see this as a political resort, unlike finance, health, social affairs. We should be looking for a match here rather than looking for contradictions and conflicting opinions. And we are really offering such a debate, a rational, factual one that will shift the construction of transport infrastructure. If I've used irony here today and maybe I've been putting you on edge a little bit, it's more of a disillusionment that this week we're just not going to debate this issue in the Chamber of Deputies from the decision of the government parties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u21	Thank you. A few apologies. Mr Klaus apologizes today from 17.15 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's work, Mr Roman Onderka apologizes from 14.30 a.m. and Mr Beitl has withdrawn his apology for reasons of work, which I have already put on the microphone. I would like to inform you that I have received a signature letter from President Faltýnek on the objection pursuant to § 54 para. 6, i.e. the veto against the inclusion of a new item in the 40th meeting on the situation in the Transport Department, and on the proposal of Mrs Pekarová Adamová, point Position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the action of the Czech Republic against the European Commission in the Agrofert case. Both documents contain more than 20 signatures, or are available for inspection here. With priority rights, Minister Toman is next at the moment. Then with priority rights, Minister Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u22	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Let me comment on Mrs Pekarová's case before the European Commission on the non-payment of subsidies. I completely reject her statement in the press and other media that we would be a lawyer to any company or anyone else. We approach this in a perfectly standard way and, on the contrary, protect the interests of the Czech Republic and its taxpayers. In the past, we have already brought six similar actions, two appeals, and we are really concerned with the principle that we have a different opinion on some technical details than the European Commission, which is why we want an independent court to decide. I would also like to stress that the action has been brought strictly on the recommendation of the lawyers and is a legitimate part of the audit procedure and is fully in line with the founding agreements on the European Union. On 10 February 2020, the time limit for which we could have brought this action expired. If we had not done so, we would no longer have that option in the future. We therefore proposed, after consultation with the Government Agent for the Czech Republic before the Court of Justice of the European Union, to bring an action for annulment of the Commission's Implementing Decision of 28 November 2019 suspending interim payments linked to the Rural Development Programme of the Czech Republic. Because bringing an action is the best way, because this problem is long-term and interpretational, and this is an ideal opportunity to bring the whole thing to trial and to a decision. And that this is the right procedure, the head of the Department of European Law of the Faculty of Law, Charles University, also confirmed. Let me quote his words to the Radiožurnál from last week: "I think it's a good thing the lawsuit was filed. It could finally be interpreted whether or not the Prime Minister is in conflict of interest. Such a verdict would be valuable because there are still different views of the EU and Czech authorities. If the Court of Justice of the European Union were to deal with this, it would be an interpretation of the utmost authoritarian." End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen, the above action is a legitimate step that Member States are taking to defend their national interests and, therefore, if we did not submit it, I would consider it a mistake in the interests of all our taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u23	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, Minister Havlíček, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the Ministry of Transport and on some of the comments or some of the comments that have been made. I understand the irony, I don't want to defend myself, to some extent it's part of Parliament, it's part of the debate. And to be honest, I also realize that I am a fairly simple and clear target in any discussion regarding the Department of Transport or Industry, because, yes, it is not quite usual that one person should run two resorts. I didn't come to the resort with any respect, I didn't even come there as a boss, I didn't come there to lecture. I came there because I don't feel like a super minister. That's what I was judged in some way. Maybe I feel super responsible, and that's why I accepted this challenge or this position. I didn't mention my predecessors or you, Mr. MPs, who were there in the past, what they did or didn't do. It seems unfair to me for one thing, and for another, I think that the resort is so demanding and complex that it is not quite so simple, notabene with a distance of several years, to judge everyone and show what they did wrong there. I know that the same can, of course, also happen in the future and will undoubtedly also be viewed by me. Yet I think that the resort deserves a whole range of changes, and I say again, not because everything that was before I got there was wrong. Let me explain to you a few correlations with several contracts that have been mentioned here, what may be behind them and how we are dealing with them today. The electronic guilt contract that was canceled and that was canceled, so I actually said that it probably went well in the process. [[14.50 hours]] I can't say for sure if there was any other mistake, but it's like the surgery went well and the patient died. Just because something else has been officially in order doesn't mean the contract is okay. We contradicted her because she seemed complicated to us. You know it's SFDI, it wasn't the Department of Transport. The contract was complicated with regard to the unnecessary diction of the so-called security features, which we also explained at the Security Council in Parliament, or the Security Committee, or Pardon, the Chamber of Deputies. It was intricately entered, which led to a relatively small number of competitors. In the end, only two competed, and therefore the price was quite high. We canceled, and, yes, there's been a criminal complaint. And that was because we're not sure of one thing, and we're not sure that there really was no error in the sense of not political, ideological and any other, in the sense that there was a relative link between a person or a lady who leads the SFDI field of information systems and technology, and at the same time her husband, who was with the company that prepared the contract. It means, it's just some angle that we can't tell whether or not he's okay, and let the police investigate. Therefore, a criminal complaint was filed. In any case, the contract is terminated. The contract is competing differently, more simply, and at this point, I can say that the preliminary price we estimated could be halfway around. Of course, there are a number of other contracts that we have either slowed down at the moment or tried to restructure them. One of them was the system for the so-called toll supervision system, which, in turn, we believe could be more addressed in an internal way, that is, it is not necessarily necessary to let commercial entities into it when internal entities can do it. That means, my opinion is to stick to the fact that what we are able to do to ourselves, so we should not enter externally. As far as the state of the ministry is concerned, please respect the fact that if a minister comes there, and just as ministers came there before, he will simply set up an organizational structure that will suit them to some extent, will suit the product and, of course, will suit the style of their work. It's nothing special, and it doesn't mean, again, that everyone who did it before us did it wrong. I believe that it is possible to simplify the organizational structure of the entire resort, that it can be set up more productively, through infrastructure, through transport and through control system, and it will be a system which, I think, will not be completely discoverable, new, but it will be a system on the basis of which I will also write selection procedures into key positions in the positions of so-called Deputys. It means, it's not that I'm saying today that I'm gonna trade all the Deputys. It is about the fact that I am saying that a new organisational structure is going to be drawn up, which should be completed by the end of February, and on this basis, selection procedures will be drawn up for the positions of individual Deputys. One of the existing ones can succeed, maybe someone fails, that's another thing. In any case, as regards the new regime, which I would like to include, it is a more rigorous control of the management system of the so-called organizational components of the resort. You mentioned that there are 15 organizations here. They agree, making a turnover of 150 billion crowns combined, and I believe that there must be a system of four, six eyes that control not only accounting here, but also their own process of approval processes etc. The fact that you can check the contract limit, superlime, sublime, is, of course, possible, and it's not complicated at all. It is again a question of a system and control team that will do it, and we would deny institutions significantly larger than the Ministry of Transport. I think that in itself is just a question of setting the powers of the responsible, but I am convinced that it can be done. There are, of course, many of them with regard to the priorities of the Ministry. Some have been mentioned here. In any case, I think we agree that there's a huge priority here, and that's the D1 motorway. The D1 motorway will undergo the most important reconstruction, modernization perhaps in its history. This year we will be waiting for a total of 7 buildings, 7 closures in a total length of 75 km. It will be extremely difficult, I take personal responsibility for it, taking a personal approach to how it will be managed in terms of communication with individual suppliers, in terms of communication with drivers, in terms of communication with the public. It's gonna be tough, but, of course, I'm taking the responsibility with everything. There are other important things in the sense - this year only handle 50 km of railways. We have a whole series of international commitments that we should be able to handle, including what has fallen here, and this information wasn't right here, that's the high-speed route, the high-speed railroad that's being prepared. In the last week, I have had the opportunity to deal with the Minister of Transport of Poland, the Minister of Transport of Germany, and by coincidence with such a smaller working group from the V4 countries. With each of these groups, or in these negotiations, we discussed high-speed railroads and, of course, I also discussed this with the Minister of Poland, and the simple report, however demanding it is in the implementation form, is such that high-speed rails are being prepared at several levels. The first route is Dresden - Ústí - Prague, the second route is Warsaw - Brno - Bratislava - Budapest. The other one also counts that there will be a trip to Prague. That means there should actually be a high-speed railroad and a Dresden connection - Prague - Warsaw - Ostrava - Brno - Budapest, with all these routes being built gradually. The first in 2025, then 2027, and then it will proceed as it is. The project documentation is being prepared today, the whole system is being dealt with, the process, including the fact that I happened this week, sorry, last week with the German Minister of Transport signed a request for the first resources that should go, the truth, at this time for the German part of the high-speed line Berlin, sorry, Dresden, Dresden - border. So, of course, all of these things are being dealt with in a series, not just me, there's a team of people involved. The question, of course, that has fallen here, to what extent I am able to handle it and I am unable to handle it. I understand that it may seem that driving two resorts is hyper-intensive. It's difficult, but I dare say it's not unworkable in terms of the agenda. That would be denied by other resorts in the world, denying the ministries that have to run in countries that serve hundreds of millions of inhabitants. And we would also deny that different new, combined ministries in different countries are created, for example, after certain elections. Here I would just give an interesting example, and this is Austria, where it was created relatively newly, I do not want to say the superministership, but the ministry, which is made up of the environment, transport and energy. Coincidentally, the head of the Ministry is a member or simply a representative of the Green Party, and to some extent a completely new format has been created there, which, in my view, is much less logical than, for example, what concerns the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Industry, because both of these resorts have a huge number of common products, synergies effects. The clearly connecting link between the two resorts is the construction, the connecting link is the automotive industry, for which the Ministry of Transport prepares infrastructure, the Ministry of Industry is simply preparing facilities for the automotive industry, as well as we can look at the space industry, the aerospace industry, we can look at the water management, the water industry and the water energy associated with it. This means, even a number of things that we are preparing, and this corresponds to my position as Deputy Prime Minister, were done in agreement between the Ministry of Industry or not in agreement, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Transport. Yes, it is difficult, but I wanted to show that there is a huge number of common products that can be combined and to some extent may be simplified by following through one minister. I would finally mention even the 416 that fell here, however much we can discuss it as to whether it is good or if it is bad. Perhaps we all feel and agree that this is an extremely important law, 416 was prepared as a law presented by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Industry together with the Ministry of Regional Development. I think that would be a lot of points. In any case, you are welcome at the Ministry of Transport, whether we call it excursions or non-excursion, it is irrelevant, everyone is welcome there, whether they are from the coalition or whether they are from the opposition. Last night I had a meeting with an opposition politician, a pleasant, normal, factual one, he just wanted to see some things, I liked to welcome him and I liked to explain to him what he needed to know. And we may not even have to say that to each other in the House, but just let me know, and whoever is welcome, I'll be happy to do it, or show him what we do, why we do it and how we do it. [[15.00 hours]] As far as the last thing mentioned here is concerned, I know that this does not apply directly to the Ministry of Transport, but it has been mentioned here as progress is made with the core and the core is followed exactly according to the timetable that we agreed with each other. Coincidentally, I was in Dukovany all morning, where we presented some milestones again. Exactly what has been agreed, that is to say, that is to say, the final signature between the state and CEZ is being prepared at the moment, immediately thereafter it goes to the notification procedure for the European Union and begins a normal standard process, which simply has its essentials. I agree completely with what has fallen here, that is, it is not just a question of the Czech Republic, in the first stage it is much more about agreeing with the European Commission. And I personally really appreciate that even though we don't have to agree on a lot of things here and we have a whole number of things from the point of view of philosophy management (?) a completely different view, so maybe we agree on the core. And I believe we're gonna make it. So the core is proceeding exactly according to the timetable. And once again, anyone who wants to know anything about it just has to contact me or, of course, ČEZ or anyone else, I'd be happy to give him an answer or an explanation. In the finals, let me finish by saying that I didn't go to the Department of Transport to make a card. I took the Department of Transport because I consider it my utmost responsibility. And please, or I ask that the results be evaluated in particular, not by who and how they organise there. I have full responsibility for the results. I'm carrying them here. Especially me. I'm not gonna put them on my predecessors, I'm not gonna put them on the Deputys or anyone else's. And you have the perfect opportunity to shoot at me for one and a half years, I'm ready for that. But on the other hand, I'm prepared to actually implement those results. And if the results aren't, then I'm ready to take full responsibility for it, too. And I believe you'll be the first to point that out. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for today's meeting between 14 and 16 o'clock for work reasons. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek, then with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would much rather not be performing right now, because I would very much like Mrs Pekarová's proposal to Adamová to remain and receive support, and so that we can all discuss it. However, something tells me that this item of the programme will not be approved, so I will allow myself, under the priority right, at least briefly to respond to Minister Toman. I would like to disagree, Minister, with your claim that the action brought is in the interests of all taxpayers of the Czech Republic. The only taxpayer who is really interested in it is the beneficiary of the trust fund, which is also the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. It is in the interests of all other taxpayers that such proceedings with the Czech Republic should not be conducted at all and that its Prime Minister should not be in the unprecedented conflict of interest in which the Prime Minister Babiš is. You have stressed this several times, and you stress this very often, that it is an interpretational matter and that the European Commission should not have puvoir interpret Czech laws. But you are only talking about the conflict of interest law of 2017, where the Czech institutions have a diametrically different view than the European Commission does. I leave aside that I think the European Commission is right because it sees the purpose of circumventing the law. But please, there I would still be willing to respect that this is an interpretational problem, which is a good thing that some judicial authority will decide. But there is also a European Commission regulation from August 2018, which we could call European Lex Babiš, because the case of our Prime Minister was really one of the motives why this regulation was formulated and approved. If I am not mistaken, Minister Toman, you have also voted in favour of this regulation on the Council of Ministers, so it was issued with the consent of the Government of the Czech Republic through you. And there's no interpretational discrepancy, and there can't be. Even the Czech institution doesn't even talk about it, because it's very clear there. There's only talk that there can't be a conflict of interest. This also applies to family members. And it is a regulation, not a directive, which means that this applies immediately after it has been issued, regardless of whether we implemented it as a member country or not into our legal order. So I say, and I think you won't argue that the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has been in conflict of interest since August 2018 at the latest. If you said it between February 2017 and August 2018, it is uncertain and we want to argue there, we want to sue there, but from August 2018, we have to do what the Czech Government has to do - eliminate the conflict of interest, so I would consider it fair. But you, with reference to the argument on February 2017, ignore the European regulation of August 2018, hopelessly stretching out, stretching, fogging, deceiving the public about how these projects will be paid off, even confirming this at the meeting by the officials of the European Commission. Of course, if they expressed their views on the formal requirements of the projects, they could have been fine. But the basic problem, the conflict of interest, it's not okay and it can't be. So in the interests of all taxpayers minus one, this is the beneficiary, it is that this conflict of interest should be eliminated, that is, that companies in the trust fund of Prime Minister Babiš should not take European subsidies, or that Prime Minister Babiš should not be in a situation, and that, of course, could not be Prime Minister, when he will decide on how much, when and how he will pay himself. This is simply a clear conflict of interest, which the European Parliament, which the European Commission does not doubt, does not doubt. The conclusion just can't be any different, no matter how much you're fogging around here. And by dragging it out, you're increasing political costs and likely financial damage. I believe, because the House should discuss this, that it should comment on whether it considers such an action to be right and, above all, whether it really is not the best time to remove the fundamental cause of the proceedings, the problem that many of us see as a huge shame, and that is the existing conflict of interests that exists, as I say, for more than a year now, because at the latest since the 2018 European Commission regulation and we have February 2020. This is a disgrace to the cosmic dimensions, Minister, for which you are responsible. And that's not in the interests of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another priority right - Vice-President Filip. Then Vice-President of Černohorský, as President Michálek is excused from the negotiations and Mr Černohorský has a priority right. Mr. Vice-President has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u28	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. I thank Minister Havlíček for his brief opening words, although I would like to discuss this on a different platform than here. I don't think what's going on at the Department of Transport could have been solved by the Security Committee that sat down and dealt with the original material, that was more of an economic committee. I'd hate to hold up today's opposition window to discuss something here, so I won't bother him. But I believe that the Department of Transport deserves the attention of the Chamber of Deputies only after the Economic Committee at least discusses with the Minister certain priorities both at the Ministry of Transport and at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but also in its third role, that is, in science and research, because I believe that it is quite important to set certain priorities for the tasks in these three positions of Vice Prime Minister Havlíček. [[15.10 hours]] I do not intend to take any time away from opposition Members here, including us, in order to discuss our proposals, but I would still like to see priorities clarified at the latest at the meeting of the Economic Committee at the next meeting, particularly with regard to the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the field of nuclear energy. I would therefore like to regret that the Deputy Prime Minister could not stay in Dukovany, we would also like to see him in Temelín in the South Bohemia Region - but also to agree on a procedure concerning the construction of D3, construction of high-speed lines. And, of course, I would also like to comment on the situation in transport when the government has decided to terminate direct flights between the People's Republic of China and the Czech Republic, and what is the prospect of restoring them, especially if they manage to cope with the Calamity of Coronavirus. That's one thing. And the second thing I would like to say to the Prime Minister is that it would be appropriate for us to be able to really prioritize the announcement of a tender for the completion of nuclear blocks as soon as possible. After all, we organized an important conference more than a year ago - the Deputy Prime Minister was not yet in the position of Minister of Industry and Trade - concerning energy, the world's largest producers of nuclear equipment, and since then I consider the Government's steps, including Chief Agent Míl, to be too slow to get into the situation of energy security in the Czech Republic in time, because when I include the question of coal, for example, the question of other sources of energy, I would like to be able to get close to it. I don't want to use interpelation, either, because I don't think it's necessary, but I would rather appeal on the subject in the Economic Committee. I will ask our members in the Economic Committee to initiate this so that, if necessary, the Economic Committee can present a resolution so that we can discuss this at a different time and in the presence of the ministers involved, as well as representatives of ČEZ, České dráhy, Railway Infrastructure Administration, etc., as I would consider such a step to be very important. I would not like the Prime Minister's Prime Minister to have a heart attack, which is why I will no longer prolong this debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Cernohorský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u30	Hello, thank you for your word. So I'm taking advantage of my preferential right at least, but the Minister has already pulled me out for the second time. I was quite impressed that in the last six years, when we had several ministers so to speak at full-time, and they did very little in the field of transport, so what do you want to do, Minister, you, at part-time at this part-time? How much time do you intend to spend preparing high-speed lines? Because the fact that it's in Germany doesn't really matter to me. I want to get from Ostrava to Prague very quickly, or rather to Brno. Mr. Stanjura has already started this: how did the four hundred and sixty-six help? How will you be able to drive around Přerov or Přerov? Because it's completely blocked by trucks right now. What about building the Otrokovic and Zlin bypass? Because so far, only the ministers have taken a picture and then I haven't seen a single worker in all this time. How do you intend to resolve the fluctuations in funding of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure? Because, in some cases, it seems like such a mild sineoid, where suddenly those construction projects have to stop or slow down, because there are no funds available. How do you want to prevent it, co-worker Bláha here, fortunately, isn't there how you're going to deal with the fact that if the bus driver is driving, he has two passengers in the back, so he looks back, checks and charges 10 other students, because there's no control mechanism to show if those people really took the bus? I would like to ask further what happened to the projects presented by Mr Kremlík. For example, Mr Took presented a large circle around Prague within the Central Bohemia Region. Then came Mr. Kremlík, then the circuit was significantly smaller. So, if Took's circuit is going to be Kremlíkův's circuit, or are you going to build your own circle? Alternatively, how many of these circuits are going to be? Then, for example, at Prima, you mentioned that the Prime Minister would be very helpful to you. The Prime Minister is unable to come to the Chamber of Deputies, so I wonder how he will assist you at the Ministry. You mentioned that he would deal with transport structures, railway structures - and then what would you do at the Ministry? Because I think these are the biggest parts you have there. I'd be running over to that double rule right now, double administration. Recently we experienced such a special situation when one minister was missing and part of the morning we fell under the table of laws in which you were the translator as Minister of Industry and Trade, and then you were still a petitioner as Minister of Transport. So if we still have a third minister to cover for you here if you don't happen to be here, or if we're just gonna eliminate those laws? I haven't checked yet. You mentioned nuclear power plants here. I would just tactfully warn you that Rowan Legal, who has now caused Mr Kremlík's mild problems, will advise the state to build nuclear power plants against ČEZ. So that you have enough time to control what they're preparing. And the Minister of Agriculture sort of disappeared somewhere, but I was wondering if the lawsuit would solve the problem of his possible conflict of interest. Because it seems strange to me that the Minister of Agriculture, who is probably also in conflict of interest, is suing for the Czech Republic because of the Prime Minister, who is in conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u31	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura, then President Chvojka, and then Minister Havlíček reported to me, so we have three priority rights. President Stanjura may have just left the O.R. for a moment, so I guess we'll put him at the end of the priority rights, and I'll ask President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u32	Once again, good afternoon, colleagues, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask the Minister one thing, and please don't let him take it personally, because I know he's certainly not going to be responsible for it, and maybe he'll explain to me who was responsible for the practice that took place at the Ministry of Transport. After all, he can tell me that I don't know, former Minister Stanjura or some other minister. This matter relates to the strange practice of the Ministry of Transport, which I learned about about a week ago, when after the appointment of a member of the government, the Minister of Transport, according to the Ministry of Transport, also becomes the head of the central body of the administration of the employee, i.e. a contract of employment has been drawn up with the Minister of Transport. And now I don't know on what basis, what was the subject of the employment contract, what was the kind of work that the minister did, etc. And I would like to know who put this special legal anomaly, constitutionally-legal, completely out of place, how long this constitutionally-legal anomaly at the Ministry of Transport has been practicing, whether the Minister intends to, whether he himself has signed this, in quotation marks, employment contract, and whether or not he has somehow dealt with those who are responsible for this practice so that it has been explained to them that it is simply not okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u33	Thank you. Now Minister Havlíček, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore respond to a few points that have been raised here. SFDI is, of course, a key institution, 93 billion crowns of budget, 39 goes to railroad, 39 goes to transport, the rest goes to cycling routes, to other activities. I have to say, as it happens next week, I think we have a committee right away. In addition, we will distribute 7 billion crowns in order. Of course, I'm working with what was here. I can always imagine that there might be a little more, but I dare say that, as maybe a prime minister, with some support from the Prime Minister, we can secure a little more resources for the SFDI than was planned. I don't want to make any promises, but in any case, I dare say we're going to fight a little more. I understand that you don't care if I was in Germany or Poland. I would not even say it here, I merely responded to, say, a certain complaint from Mr Stanjura in the sense that when I was dealing with the Polish Minister, we were not discussing high-speed lines. So I was just saying that we were discussing high-speed lines with him, and I was trying to explain to you here, as well as to my colleagues, that high-speed lines are a priority. I said the data here, I said it's in some kind of project phase. And I even said that money is already being secured at least for the German part, which will therefore be directed towards the Dresden. That means we can talk about it later. I don't think it's for a big detail right now. Big circuit in Prague. Yes, there are more regimes discussed there. For me today, the main road circuit or highway circuit around Prague, which we now know has four parts, two are being realized, the other two are being prepared. We know it all came down to the construction office, I believe, in Uhříněves. Among other things, if we had the recodification, we would have avoided it. I've recently mentioned the data that will be at the same time. It's not fair for you to tell me that something fell under the table here last time because it wasn't because I have two resorts. This was because, and several times it fell here, that he was sitting with the Senate and at the same time sitting with the House. And I have a choice at the moment. Either I choose the Senate or I choose the House. And that's when I was in the Senate, and it ended in the Senate. I asked for it, and thank you all for moving on. All the points that were here, I made it here this afternoon. That means it wasn't due if I had more or less laws. It was simply given that the Senate and the House are in session. I had to finish it at the moment in the Senate. Rowan Legal, of course, is important. You don't have the information right. Rowan Legal is not the one who would advise the Ministry of Industry in terms of contract with ČEZ. The contract with ČEZ is concluded at several stages and the first, where Rowan Legal was properly competing, the so-called small contract, was not an implementation contract, but only a schedule of how it would be carried out. Then Rowan Legal didn't do it anymore, and it's also traceable. So the contract has been terminated in the past. I'm sorry I forgot to respond to the employee before. That's the part where Minister Kremlík quit. I'm no expert on how or not to end the minister. In any case, one of the interpretations was that he went on a contract, so the rules apply to him as an employee. This has not been done in the past, nor in the Ministry of Transport. If I have the right information, it only happened once eight years ago. I don't know if Minister Stanjura or his predecessor was there then, but I really don't know now, I'm saying it politically, but plus minus eight years ago, when this was first applied there. Then it didn't apply. So it seemed perfectly logical to me. We had it checked out, and during, I don't know, one week we shut it down. This means, based on the explanation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which has quite clearly told us that it is not possible to go this way, that it must go the so-called constitutional way, that is, a severance payment of one month plus, if I am not mistaken, three months of the car available, so we applied it immediately. So it was nothing, nothing happened. In that particular month, we made it. And now I don't want to say who made a mistake. There was probably a mistake, but what matters is that it caught on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u35	Thank you. President Stanjura, then Vice-President of Černohorský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u36	We're not discussing the transport point and we're at a meeting stage called "designing changes to the program," and the opposition window is coming through a minute after a minute. That's the result of the veto. I asked the Minister not to perform. He's made an interview out of it. He's still being intersected by a government MP, Mr. Ambassador Chvojka. That's what Thursdays are for. If so, let's not let the Minister have it so simple, first of all, there was no such practice with the employment contract for me. Chairman Chvojka called it an anomaly. As a programmer and a non-lawyer, I'm saying it's completely stupid. I don't know who invented it. Someone who wanted money. No one normal could have meant it. So I don't know about eight years ago, but in 2003, before I was a minister, we didn't apply it because nobody told me. If he tells me, I'll probably release him that day from the Department of Transport. That wasn't the law of the service, maybe it would still be possible. So it's completely stupid and not an anomaly. But those are the managers who were hired by the Prime Minister, who are then two months on the line when he's not a minister. Then we have two ministers - one in office and the other in obstacles if I accept this optics. But it doesn't matter. But those are other things the Minister says he doesn't want to go back to. Prime Minister and Minister Ťok a promise to the captains and mayors that the toll would not be collected in the first place, or that there would be a zero rate. Find those public statements from the Prime Minister. What are you going to do about it, Minister? Are you gonna tell me that was a lie? Or that it blew out? Or what happens to it? A clear public promise, even a memorandum prepared for submission to the government, was prepared, then withdrawn from the government's agenda repeatedly. So that's exactly it. When I talk to a group, I promise them what they want to hear. Then when I talk to the other group, I say something else. And then the chaos is pretty simple. I think the answers the Minister is showing today clearly show that one person cannot manage two ministries for time reasons. It's very simple. And you can say you'll be working 26 hours a day. The office doesn't work 26 hours a day, they have standard hours. Or will they go to the MIT in the morning and to the Department of Transport in the afternoon? That, too, is the solution. I don't know how you put it, but it doesn't have... It's not about responsibility. It's about the ministers running out. Yes, every time you're in trouble, you pull some part of our program out of context. Yes, we have a long-term agenda to merge the two ministries. But I can't merge them when I run out of ministers, and I have to start by analyzing some agenda, not one minister. That's a small savings. We didn't make it, so be it, then it was cold. When I suggested that we deal with the SFDI in the future, and I suggested some steps, your coalition partner threw me over today. So again, the idea isn't bad, but it has to be done in context. Don't let anyone mess up the account, I'll cancel it. This is not a system solution. Plus, you're kind of squirming now, you don't know if it was by the law or not. But the Prime Minister filed a criminal complaint, so the minimum suspect is that there was something unfair going on behind your predecessor. And now that you're talking, and I quite welcome that you don't want to make an extra choice with your predecessors, but I really don't understand how you want to use the services of the former Minister of Transport, how you've repeatedly... that he won't be a deputy, or that he won't be a deputy, but that he doesn't, but that he has the experience, so maybe he can help you with that salary if he wasn't a minister and take the salary of the minister. I really don't see any. And you fight back because we say chaos. Let's talk about it. We will merge the ministries - Andrej Babiš. In three days' time, Andrej Babiš - we're not going to merge the ministries, who made this up? Andrej Babiš - Kremlík will be deputy. That was Thursday. On Friday - it's some bubble, Kremlík won't be deputy. And so it's one next to the other. E-shop, non-e-shop, cancelled contract, undisturbed. Okay, by law, over and over again. So we'll meet at the emergency meeting when there's no other one left. Don't take our time. This debate really doesn't meet the parameters for those who have something to say about traffic getting involved. [[15.30 hours]] Maybe there's one thing I'd like you to do, Minister. Try to stop legislative activity in the transport resort. We did the math, it's numbers from Honza Bauer, and unfortunately he can't perform, so I'll reap the fruits of his work. Do you know how many amendments that concern either the Road Act or the road traffic, we have already discussed this parliamentary term? Twenty-five! Ten has already been published in the Collection of Laws, fifteen is running. By the way, in the last week's House, we returned two of these laws to... It's not normal! How can we justly ask road users to navigate this when one amendment per month comes out? I know many of them are MPs, but many of them are MPs. Try your authority to stop this bombardment with constant changes. It's not going anywhere. And remember, I don't like it, Dan Ťok said the electronic road signs would be on January 1, 2017. Then on 1 January 2019. Now we have it to 1. 1. 2021 and live listening to the problems of preparing the system. And if you're in trouble, Minister, I'll give you some advice. Use Dan Took's favorite tactic - come with a change in the point system. Every time I went to Moravc's with him, he always pulled out a chart and said, "I'm gonna set it up now, I'm gonna bring it up now." 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 - we didn't get anything on the table except for the PR movement YES, that it will finally come to this crucial... So when you're in trouble, I advise you to come up with a change in the point system. This will fill the pages of the press, no one will succeed, but the debate will be taken away from the essentials that I pointed out in my first speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u37	Good afternoon, honourable Members. We'll continue with the priority rights. Now, Mr Černohorský, on behalf of the President of the club, will prepare Mrs Pekarová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'll just hurry. The State Fund for Transport Infrastructure was created because long-term financing is needed. This means that if at the beginning of February he doesn't know what his finances will be the following year, it's problematic enough for them to plan anything for the long term. That was my main point. The second thing was about your absence. In this case, it did not fall completely below the table by the end of the week because the President was much nicer to you, which I think was the President of the ODS. The point is, if you're going to have a meeting within the EU and you're not here for two or three days, not just the laws that you have under the MIT, as President Stanjura said here, you have a lot of traffic laws, so there are a lot of international treaties that we may be able to deal with. But I won't hold up any longer. I guess we'll talk about traffic soon, 'cause it's starting to snow outside, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u39	Thank you, Mr Cernohorska. Now, with Mrs Pekarová's priority right, Mrs Jana Černochová will be prepared. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u40	Thank you for your word. I have to say, whoever's following this debate for about an hour and a half must feel like it's already one of those big potato things. And it's because we have three suggestions for the inclusion of points that relate to each of them completely different, but very important and important things, and in fact at this moment only those who have the opportunity, because they have the opportunity to speak with priority rights, can comment on this. So each of us is going to have at least two, sometimes up to three lines of different debates. I therefore appeal once again to approve these points as proper points in our meeting so that even those who do not have the advantage of priority rights can ask questions and thus be able to speak at all in the debate. So I don't want it to feel like ungrateful to the acting ministers here, and that's progress that they'll come at all, but let's not get fooled by the fact that it's such an effort to get the wolf to eat and the goat stays whole. It's just that the debate here is important in all the things that are being proposed here, all of which are essential enough to put them before some of the ones that are waiting for us according to the proper agenda, and at least then we have a chance to have a real debate and not just, as it often is, a very out-of-the-box dialogue. I would really like to know how Minister Toman would react to the specific reservations that have been raised here in the contribution of the President of our club Mr Kalousek. But that's not where I expect the Minister's speech to come, if he's still here. In this regard, I therefore appeal once again to approve the point that I have proposed, but I also intercede for the other two that have been proposed by colleagues from other parties. I believe it's only good for the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u41	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová, now with priority rights President of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik and ready for Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I really don't want this whole afternoon talking about that extraordinary point, either, because we know that there is an opposition window, but there is one brief question or perhaps a doubt or a request for an explanation to Minister Havlíček. He here, if I am not mistaken, and I have heard well, said that there will still be increased funds to the transport infrastructure fund, and then I think that there is no need for us to quickly use and plan and count on some important transport structures being built using the so-called. PPP projects, because how this is promoted as a thing that is amazing, we know, for example, how D47 turned out, that it is therefore not entirely clear and bright, and that it is therefore better that these major projects should be financed precisely and exclusively from those public sources. That's my opinion. I think that if this were the case, then there would be a lot of doubt and a lot of problems, because once we mix the private and public sectors, it may not lead to a completely desired outcome for the public or public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u43	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová with her application. We're still on the agenda for today's meeting. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a firm inclusion of the Parliamentary press hearing number 425 - Proposal by Members Jana Černochová, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on Security of Defence of the Czech Republic, as amended, for tomorrow afternoon and Thursday morning, i.e. from 11 a.m. to 13 p.m. To remind you. This is a proposal for an amendment that should incorporate into our legal system the government's obligation to allocate resources of 2% of GDP each year within the state budget. And the proposal, according to the Ministry of Finance's prediction, is for a given year, which makes me happy with the request that the government made in the unsuccessful submission of my last proposal in the last parliamentary term. As you know, defense spending at this level is our commitment, which the Czech Republic, like other states, has already made at the NATO summit in Wales in 2014, and which we should meet within 10 years. Despite the insufficient increase in defense spending so far in recent years, which did not give certainty to achieve this goal either in the past or in the current government, all government officials have so far declared, at least orally, that we want to achieve this goal. But in the past two weeks, both Prime Minister Babiš and Vice Prime Minister Hamáček have questioned the fulfillment of it, even though, less than a year ago, the Prime Minister bragged about Donald Trump in the White House with a graph showing a trajectory of 2% of GDP. Apparently, it was just promises and empty talk. The government finds that it will no longer have the means for the promises and gifts it has given to voters. In January this year, the budget fell into a deficit of 8 billion. Crowns. It only happened for the third time in our revolutionary era, but everyone looks like nothing's happening. This is a very clear signal that years of abundance are slowly ending. Moreover, when I mention that during these years the government has not only created no reserves, but has also dissolved the ones that the state had, it is clear that it will need to look for pension money, for other fare discounts, etc. [[15.40 hours]] What I have repeatedly warned about here will happen, so it will start to be cut off. And the first on the line will be the defense of our country again. This is precisely what Minister Hamáček referred to last week as a ceiling of 1,4% of GDP to meet the demands of social democratic ministers. It is clear that not only our reputation as a reliable and serious partner is at risk, but especially our security, because the need for modernization of the army is very acute, and if we do not invest in it, the Alliance's willingness to provide us with certainty will decline. I know that many of you are aware of this, but unfortunately, the proposal for legal anchoring defense spending of 2% of GDP in the past has not been approved. But if we are serious about defending our country, and if we do not want to repeat the same mistake from the past that the ODS has made, that it really was a mistake, that we too were forced to cut, and we were just cutting back on defense, we do not want to deepen the internal debt of the army that it currently has. And it is indeed high time that we made sure that this does not happen, especially given that unfortunately, the government is moving away from its commitments. We Members are responsible for this. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to discuss this resubmitted bill and approve it as proposed. Without the certainty of the funds needed, our army will always be just a cash register for government populism, and it is, of course, wrong for times of crisis. Thank you for your attention and for any support for my proposal. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-11-ps2017-040-09-000-000.u45	Thank you, Mrs Černochová, noted. I have no further application for the debate on the agenda of the meeting. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. If not, I will conclude the debate on this and we will vote on individual proposals. I note that we have a proposal for a college of political grémia to decide this morning by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. We have a proposal to return against this proposal by the Gremium to the report block on Thursday of the Ombudsman's Activity Report. That's the difference between the grémium proposal. Then we have Mrs Jana Černochová's proposal, either on Wednesday or Thursday on the press 425, because Mrs Jurečka's proposals were vetoed by the position of two MPs, and Mrs Pekarová Adamová's proposal was twenty signatures and Mr Stanjura's also twenty signatures. So that's a summary of the voting options, and I'd like to vote first - I'll unsubscribe all of you, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will therefore vote on the proposal for a political grémia on a new ranking of points, including the summary of this afternoon's block. I started voting number 204. Who is in favour of the political grémium proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 204. From 168, for 167, against no one. It's been approved. Now, therefore, a separate vote on the return of item 233 - it is the Ombudsman's report - which was put back into that Thursday's meeting. I've started voting number 205. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 205. From 168, for 5, against no one. The motion was denied. So we will proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting within the political Gremium. Yes, do we understand each other? So now the proposal for the inclusion of item 4, print 425, as the first point on Wednesday afternoon, i.e. at 14.30 pm, even before those points that are already firmly placed. Madame Černochová's proposal as alternative number one. We will decide in the vote number 206. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 206. Of the present 170, for 40, against 23. The motion was not accepted. Now alternative number two, that means this print 425 discuss on Thursday 13. 2. at 11 o'clock, i.e. also before otherwise fixed points. I've started voting number 207 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 207. Out of 171 Members present, for 42, against 21. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore follow the approved agenda of the meeting and therefore start with item 131 in the opposition window. The point number 131 is
