ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u1	1. Bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and certain other laws /German press 910/4/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments, his resolution has been delivered as House press 910/5, information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us, asking him to settle at the newsstand table. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I am asking the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová for the same thing, and I will ask her at the same time when the situation calms down for the Government of the Czech Republic to comment on the Senate resolution and on the amendments tabled. Now, Madam Vice Prime Minister, we must wait for the situation to calm down. I'm going to ask the House to transfer the discussions to the lobby. Ladies and gentlemen, we have approved the agenda of the meeting, we will follow it, and I ask all those who will not discuss the tax law to transfer the debate to the front door or to take their seats and let Prime Minister Alena Schillerová speak. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you once again today and I believe that for the last time, the request for consent to tax changes, which, among other things, represent a severe reduction in the tax burden, economic support, the elimination of long-term discrimination and distortion, as well as other measures responding to the current crisis. I would therefore like to ask you from this place to agree to a compromise version approved by the Senate. With a version that, in addition to reducing income taxes for employees to 15 and 23 %, also increases the basic discount on the taxpayer by CZK 3,000 in the next year and by another CZK 3,000 in 2022. At the same time, this version of the tax package brings an adjustment to the budgetary determination of taxes for the benefit of municipalities, cities and regions. It is a combination that will help almost 4.5 million employees, as well as employers who will be able to maintain high employment and devote resources to the recovery of their business after a severe recession and the restoration of investment activity and company development. Without exaggeration, we stand at a crossroads, whether an early return to normal or a slow and uncertain recovery from the crisis. We know from the past that little is enough, and our country can cause a new crisis with its own mistakes, especially if it strangles the economy and makes the expectations of citizens and companies worse. And it's true the other way around. Goethe wrote that courage is needed for all that is great. I think that this government - with the support of the House, of course - has already proven, in the struggle to save the economy, business and maintain the standard of living, that it can come up with really decisive steps. With the decisive steps that we stand up for and for which we are ready to take full political responsibility. In this context, I would like to remind you of the spring general moratorium on loans that we came up with as one of the first countries ever. That was something that was just completely new. There was no foreign experience that we could take over. However, the moratorium has been enforced and worked. And it worked just as it was needed most. Concerns about the breach of the creditor's relationship were not fulfilled. We have shown that even a small country can pioneer. The moratorium took advantage of 360,000 debtors to whom this step significantly helped, 360,000 different stories. [[9.20 hours]] Thanks to the budget amendments, we have paid more than CZK 241 billion by the end of November to support the economy. It has proved that we have acted perfectly in line with Europe-wide trends. All sorts of fears just didn't come true. And I believe that it will not be fulfilled even in this case. On the contrary, I believe that the tax package will help to start the engine of our economy. Half-gas ride is not an adequate response from the decisive government and Parliament to recover from the deepest crisis of the modern history of the Czech Republic. Although labour taxation is the most observed and relegated change in the tax package, it also contains other substantial adjustments. In connection with the support of the economy, I would also mention an extraordinary acceleration in depreciation for this year and next year. Thanks to it, companies and entrepreneurs will invest more, because they will simply have more resources to invest. In addition to the acceleration of depreciation, the package removes unnecessary administration when it permanently increases the threshold for mandatory depreciation from 40 to 80,000 crowns. Newly, all assets to this amount will be able to be written off by the entrepreneur one time. Furthermore, the amendment contains an adjustment of the meal voucher, which has gained an additional dimension as a result of the pandemic. It means more money for caterers and access to employee benefits for another million employees. The proposed proposal also strengthens the decision-making powers of local authorities in the field of real estate taxes. This will allow the local coefficient to be fixed separately for each part of the municipality. Today, the adjustment method is very rigid and allows the determination of the coefficient only uniformly for the entire territory. The municipalities will thus gain the possibility of a fairer tax policy and, where appropriate, an increase in their municipal income through this adjustment. But there are also a number of other changes with a clear common denominator, to improve the tax environment and to respond to the present difficult situation. For example, the eligibility of coronavirus-related expenditure, a level playing field for taxation of bond revenues, easier reporting of electric car charging, a relief for parents of hospitalized children, or easier entry to the market for small distributors of alcohol. Ladies and gentlemen, we have become accustomed to living in a period of growth, abundance and abundance. The current situation and experience with coronavirus has opened many eyes and helped to understand the value of what is really important. Let me paraphrase slightly and say that 2020 carried elements of decadence and anxiety. I firmly believe that the next year will be the year of the Renaissance and restoration not only of the Czech economy, but above all of society itself. To make a better contribution, I ask you to support the tax package in a version approved by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I will now ask that Zdeněk Nytra, a senator who justifies the resolution of the Senate, take the floor. Senator, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, you have all received brief information on how the Senate approval was carried out. I want to thank the Minister of Finance for the comprehensive opening statement, so I will basically be very brief. There are three options ahead of you today. To approve the Senate version of the tax package, I will return to this, the Senate version of the tax package to reject and approve your original version, that is to approve a greater burden on the revenue side of the budget, and I dare say, cutting off the budget of cities, municipalities and regions. Or not approve anything, tax package simply toss in the trash. I do not think that this is a good option, because this tax package contains a lot of beneficial points, again, as the Minister of Finance said, in the form of accelerated depreciation starting with and more and more. That's why I'm asking you all to approve. With this Senate version, you will leave more money in your wallets to all people who pay taxes, you will expand the range of employees who will not have to pay any taxes, you will abolish unfair and dangerous taxation of the sale of family companies and startups and their possible transfer outside the Czech Republic, and last but not least, you will largely compensate for the impact of the tax package on budgets of regions, cities and municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u5	I thank Senator Zdeňko Nytr and ask if the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, wants to comment on the Senate resolution. I don't think he's interested. So we can open the debate. I have four applications with priority rights, so my colleague Veselý will wait. The first registered is Tomio Okamura, followed by Lukáš Černohorský, Miroslav Kalousek and Marian Jurečka. Okay, I'm registering more applications. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD wants to keep as much money as possible in their wallets to people working, especially those low-income and medium-income citizens. Moreover, they are the ones who suffer the most today the damage caused by government coronavirus measures. Of course, not only employees are suffering the most, but also businessmen and middle and small Czech companies and, of course, disabled, old-age pensioners. But also thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, they received the extra CZK 5,000 and the pensions will also be increased next year thanks to the SPD Members. It is precisely because we want working people to have more money in their wallets, that is why thanks to the SPD members' votes, the abolition of the supergross wage and the increase in the taxpayer's discount passed a few weeks ago in the House. The discount on the taxpayer hasn't increased for 12 years. For 12 years, all existing governments have basically given a shit about working people, because that group of working people is treated by other parties as something automatic. They just automatically count on working people working, then they're going down on taxes, and basically those taxes are then being redistributed into different inadaptables and others, you might say, unnecessary expenses. And today, this law is returned to us by the Senate. They gave us back the law, where we are the votes of three political parties - a few weeks ago, super gross wages were abolished in the House and a raise on the taxpayer so that working people would have more money in their wallets. The SPD movement promotes tax reductions, which is why we support the original House version of the tax package, which reduces taxes for working citizens more than the Senate. However, it seems that the original House version will not have sufficient support from other parties, because the ODS has backed up from what it originally supported and supports a smaller reduction in taxes for working people. Similarly, the ANO movement backed out. And I would like to point out that the supergross wage has been abolished in the House by the votes of three political parties: the SPD, the ANO and the ODS movement. From this two side, the ODS and the ANO movement, from the original proposal that we voted in the House, they backed out of it. I do not know why the ODS and the ANO movement punish workers for working, because, as we know, the taxation of work in the Czech Republic is one of the highest in Europe, so it should be reduced. And it should be reduced more so that we can compare ourselves to those advanced countries. [[9.30 hours]] So, for even a minor tax cut, the SPD will support the Senate version. And if it comes to voting on this House, we will support this House. For citizens, I would add that the procedure is such that there is first a vote on the Senate version, and if this is approved, the House is no longer to be voted on. So we want at least some tax cuts to be passed on to working people, since the ODS and the ANO movement changed their minds after the vote in the House. The difference between the Senate version and the House version is that the Senate version maintains the abolition of the supergross wage and the reduction of gross wage taxes, 15 per cent for low-income and medium-income citizens and 23 per cent for high-income citizens. Which was also approved by the House by the SPD's votes. But at the same time, the Senate version reduces the increase of the basic tax discount on the taxpayer approved by the House to approximately CZK 28,000. Either way, there is an increase in the taxpayer's discount on both versions, i.e. that more money is left in people's purses, and that's a good thing. However, as I said, the House version would keep working people in their wallets a little bit more. The SPD will therefore support the Senate's proposal because we encourage citizens to pay less in taxes and, at the same time, more money. But if the Senate version does not pass as I said, then we will vote in favour of the version that we have proposed and supported and has also been approved by the House. We consider the House's version to be better because it reduces taxes more for working people. Support for tax reductions for working people was the right decision by the SPD. In this context, we also welcome President Miloš Zeman's statement, which will not veto the so-called tax package with its signature. The SPD is long-term for tax reductions, while the government coalition ČSSD refuses to reduce taxes to working people. First of all, it's the ČSSD. Otherwise, for this reason, we cannot agree with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and his Minister Alena Schillerová's statements, which marked the increase in the discount on the taxpayer, i.e. the support of working people, as a financial disaster for the state. That's pretty smiling, because looking at government paying money to so-called inadaptable and political pro-migration non-profit organizations, such as the Refugee Aid Organization, it seems to me that this government is a financial disaster for the state when it structures the budget like this. That means the government, on the one hand, now after the Senate, after it passed through the Senate, so it reduced the increase in the discount on the taxpayer, that is, once again, has taken money from decent workers compared to the original House version, on the other hand, last Friday, we voted on the state budget for next year, where money is paid to immigration nonprofits, inadaptable and so on and so forth. And the SPD simply disagrees with such structured budgets. Because especially now in the crisis, we have to move the money. We need to cut off these unnecessary, unnecessary expenses that do not bring anything to decent people, or even those social benefits need to be made conditional, for example, on a work history or a clean criminal record and so on. After all, the amendment to the SPD Pen Act to end the abuse of non-adaptable doses has been here for six months, and I hope that it will finally come to that second reading in January, because we have already been through the first reading. And to finally end the abuse, to move the money to decent people. They need them now. We need to cancel all these unnecessary expenses in the budget. The money needs to be reduced to solar barons. It is necessary to abolish inclusion in education and, on the contrary, to support special schools, where disabled children receive the maximum possible care and, at the same time, in normal teaching, those talented children will also receive the best possible care so that they can be educated. It is necessary to cancel the expensive foreign military purchases of combat technology, when the government wants to put 50 billion in the German economy to buy German combat vehicles. I don't know why it won't go away. After all, we need to support the Czech economy now. We need the state to pour money into Czech companies with Czech employees paying taxes in the Czech Republic. These are all expenses that can now be crossed out and moved towards decent people, whether they are pensioners, whether they are businessmen, employees, or small and medium-sized Czech companies. So from this point of view, the correction seems very inappropriate to me when the ODS and the ANO movement here compared to the original House version then in the Senate agree that they will actually punish those working people again, and the original increase in the tax payer discount, which, as I say, did not even copy inflation, because 12 years did not increase the discount on the taxpayer originally, so basically the expectations of the working people again, and they were happy to finally stay in their wallets by two or three thousand more on average in terms of average earnings in the Czech Republic. And thanks to the discount on the taxpayer, I wanted to say one more thing. Because we, the SPD, voted in favour of abolishing the supergross wage in line with our program as well as increasing the discount on the taxpayer, so some unsubs here criticized the SPD that it was because of the abolition of the supergross wage that it was an advantage for high-income groups of residents. They say we support the richer. Well, it's not true, because the guys who said it didn't notice that there was a raise on the taxpayer at the same time. So, of course, the combination of canceling the supergross wage and increasing the discount on the taxpayer helps those low-income groups of citizens and medium-income groups. So I'm glad I can disprove this hoax, even this nonsense. Because, on the contrary, the combination of raising the discount on the taxpayer, the abolition of the supergross wage is helping those low-income and medium-income citizens. They'll also have a lot more in their wallets. As for the discount on the taxpayer, which the Senate has now unfortunately reduced, it has reduced the increase that we have agreed in the House, so, among other things, economists agree with us exceptionally that the increase in tax on the taxpayer, i.e. the financial support of working people with low and medium incomes, was the most economically and socially rational part of the tax package. Because it creates a real tax progression for people with lower incomes and brings them higher income, which does not bother employers at the same time. That's important. At the same time, the fact that more money stays in people's purses actually makes it possible to increase the discount on the taxpayer does not burden employers that they have any more costs. And it's also a motivation to work legally. Moreover, economists say that this increase in the lowest income has the highest potential to increase consumption, so at least partially compensate for the tax blackout by strengthening the growth of the economy. So I am very sorry that the ODS, together with the ANO movement, eventually retreated, basically the day after the vote was made here, changed their minds and modified the original House proposal, so now we are voting on this less advantageous proposal for working people, and it seems to pass here. Well, anyway, if we leave a little more money in our wallets to working people, that's good. That's why I said the SPD would vote for the Senate version, at least let one pass. As much as under the SPD we are proposing savings of unnecessary expenditure in the state budget, which I have already mentioned here, I have given specific examples of where to take it, even for the budget deficit, which, of course, will result in the abolition of the supergross wage, so there is money to do it, but there is a need to regroup money in the state budget, which the government does not want to do at the same time. So we know that only the savings of a gigantic budget axe need not be solved. The state needs to look for real income elsewhere. We should start by taxing the profits of multinational corporations, the law is here from the SPD pen for several months, prepared by our MP Jan Hrnčíř. Furthermore, of course, the State needs to invest in profitable projects as well. Of course, the state doesn't do that. And the biggest problem with the deficit budget is the fact that the government is clearly relying on it to squeeze the missing money in the budget out of working people and companies. As far as investment in profitable projects is concerned, we know that governments west of us, Western governments, have directly stakes in profitable companies, in profitable commercial companies, such as in global car companies, and are trying to invest in this way to make money even outside of tax collection. So what I'm saying here in the long run is that even the Czech government should think in this modern Western way, but it's like when games on the wall throwing and essentially governments, all the governments they've done so far, basically work as hard as possible for a working man and redistribute money. But that's just not enough, that's not enough for that budget, for a sustainable budget. So, unfortunately, it's the easiest thing to do, to bust the working man who shows off governments here, but also the dumbest way. Because growth in labor taxation and small and medium-sized firms is the way to hell. Growth in the taxation of small and medium-sized firms and workers' work stifles the economy in the finals and ultimately reduces revenue for the state budget. Because, of course, the higher the taxes, the more he collects. That's what I think we all know, because in an instant, the curve hits the top, and then the tax collection goes down logically, because people don't have the money anymore. So I said the SPD position. It's in line with the motto "decent person in the first place." And in this sense, we will vote on the tax package. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u7	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Now with the priority right with the opinion of the club Mikuláš Ferjenčík, as I have here from my colleague Černohorská letter, I apologize for my misrepresentation. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly to sum up the position of the Pirates' MP on this proposal. We, as a club, will not support either of these two proposals, for basically this relatively simple reason. We believe that this reduction in taxes on debt will ultimately be paid with interest. At a time when we have an approved government deficit of CZK 320 billion, we will further reduce the revenue of the budget by CZK 100 billion, while not taking any austerity measures will only result in us finally having to pay it, and we will pay it with interest. What bothers us about the design next. There is an obvious contradiction between the objectives of the measure and its implementation. The government claims that the purpose of the proposal is to promote consumption. But it does so in a way that even economists say is ineffective. While an increase in the taxpayer's discount would really boost consumption, the government is going primarily through a reduction in rates, which, above all, will lead to an increase in their savings or investment in real estate, but will certainly not lead to an increase in consumption to that extent. We see some positives in the Senate version of the proposal, managed to maintain at least some increase in the discount on the taxpayer, managed to at least partially resolve the government's revenue gap, but there remains the main problem, and that is a 100 billion hole in the state budget that we do not think the state can afford at the moment. I would also like to comment on the hoaxes that the Prime Minister is launching on this tax package. There was a big article in the Young Front today about the fact that the tax package helps everyone equally. Well, I'll try to translate what the Prime Minister says means to everyone. This means that people with a minimum wage, if they do not have children and can receive a discount at all, will receive roughly a thousand a month and people with a parliamentary salary will receive approximately CZK 7,000 a month. That's all according to Prime Minister Babiš. That means a man with a minimum wage gets a thousand, a man with an MP's salary of seven thousand. I don't think it's all the same. He also claims that this is extremely advantageous for businessmen. But the tradesmen aren't lowering the rate at all. So the discount on the taxpayer was the only tool that even the businessmen had to lower their taxes a little bit. And that's the thing that Mr. Babiš fought the most, he simply fought with all his strength against tax cuts to tradesmen. The law itself concerns otherwise, except for the discount, only employees. It's not all the same either. A rather important aspect must then be mentioned. As a result of this law, the growth of pensions will slow. The mechanism is simple. And we see it today as the government progresses. As a result of tax cuts, wages will grow more slowly. We see it today in the state sector, where the government doesn't add anything except educators, with reference to lower taxes, so people get a raise anyway. So wages don't go up, but pensions are tied to wage growth, so seniors lose money. The 5,000 crowns they received now in December will be lost as a result of this law. I also wanted to comment on the taxation of securities sales income above CZK 20 million, which we have proposed and enforced in the parliamentary version. First of all, there's information going around that we've proposed a rate of 23 percent. That's not true. Pirates proposed a rate of 15 percent, respectively. We have proposed the abolition of the tax exemption which exempts this type of income from taxes. So that would mean a rate of 15 percent. However, as a result of Prime Minister Babiš's amendment, which supported YES, ODS and SPD, the rate has risen to 23 percent, because this type of income was included in Mr Babiš's amendment among those income covered by the progressive tax band. The pirates proposed 15, the YES movement first supported this amendment, then raised the rate to 23 - and then the Prime Minister curses us into neomarxists. So he should probably be swearing at himself first when we suggested 15, and he pushed 23. Otherwise, about the ideology of the proposal. I would like to remind you that when Ronald Reagan, who was definitely no leftist, was a conservative US president, when he was doing his tax reform, he raised this type of taxation to 28 percent. The icon of conservatism, the person that all the deejays look up to, they like to quote it as one of the best politicians of the last century, so this guy raised this tax to 28 percent. And we're here for suggesting that at least the tax exemption be lifted and 15 goes in, labeling everyone like an ultraleft. It's nonsense. We just want tax justice. We see no reason to pay 40 per cent from work, and other revenues pay zero. The rate of 15 percent seems quite adequate to us. And one last point, one more argument, why we can't support the package. The government repeatedly says there's no money for any kind of programs. The Minister of Finance says: we can no longer afford the total remission of the contributions of the Ministry of Finance, there is no money for that. The compensation bonus applies to a fraction of people that spring, because there is no money for it. A whole range of our proposals come across the fact that there's no money for it. Madam Secretary theatrically sums up how much our proposals would cost if they were all approved. But then 100 billion crowns will not be collected across the board. That's just a huge amount of money that could be used to support the most affected. Now that someone's on the verge of bankruptcy, he doesn't care if they pay less taxes if they don't have income. He needs state support so he doesn't go bankrupt. When the government forbade him from doing business, there's a need to compensate. And the money for these compensations is not due to this law. That's why the pirát won't support this tax package in either version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Now with priority right Miroslav Kalousek, prepare Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, it was not so long ago, it was in April of this year when the government submitted an amendment to the Act on Budgetary Responsibility. A amendment that very strongly loosened budgetary responsibility and assumed the consolidation of public budgets for seven years ago. The horrified experts of the National Budget Board protested loudly, and the opposition in this House from the center of the right tried its best to prevent the adoption of this amendment, which failed, the amendment was adopted and came into effect. Not half a year has passed, and in the framework of the tax package, Mr Babiš has tabled a proposal to further disband this bill of budgetary responsibility, so that consolidation is foreseen for 12 to 14 years, and for the next two years, the law is essentially shut down. Once again, experts strongly protested and again the House did not give up on experts, as did the Senate. It's almost the same as in the anticovid measure. Experts can say what they want, populists can say what they want anyway. [[9.50 hours]] This means, in the two versions that we have before us, both in the parliamentary and in the House, the second one is, in my view, a completely unacceptable amendment to the law on budgetary responsibility. From this point of view, with all due respect for the Senate, the Senate has failed in exactly the same way as the Chamber of Deputies and its proposal cannot be called a compromise. If we accept the Senate proposal, the state's mandatory income will be reduced by CZK 100 billion, which is a staggering amount. No one would welcome it more than me. I would really welcome it if on the other side of the balance there was a thoughtful proposal on how to reduce the state's mandatorial spending by CZK 100 billion, but nothing like that is true. On the contrary, the government is constantly increasing its mandatory spending. The last such decision was made yesterday, if you have noticed, by extending the circle of persons entitled to child allowances is another significant increase in mandatorial expenses without being beaten on the income side. Worse yet, no matter how many elections in less than a year... Excuse me, would you please lower your voice?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u11	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to give you some peace in the House. [[- Thank you.]] Once again, I will ask my colleagues if they are discussing a subject other than that referred to by the Senate in the field of taxation, so let them discuss it in the foyer. Only one who's been given a word speaks here. A little more, a little more, Mr. Ambassador... Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u12	Worse, no matter how many elections in less than a year, I do not believe that there will be a majority here who will have the courage, willingness, and strength to reduce the mandatorial spending by CZK 100 billion. That's just not gonna happen, most of them aren't gonna be found here. That means that the 100 billion you're gonna cut today will appear to us in the challenges of debting the state for many and many years to come. That's something we can't afford. That is why the TOP 09 will not vote either for the Senate or for the House's version. Let me also take a personal look at the views of some commentators that this proposal, because it significantly reduces taxes, is a right-wing proposal. Given that it is not balanced on the expenditure side, I do not see anything right-wing on it if budgetary responsibility is part of right-wing policy. Just as there is, in my opinion, no right-wing and left-wing extremism, there is only one dangerous extremism, so in my opinion, there is no left-wing or right-wing populism. There's only one dangerous populism. This proposal, whether in the House or in the Senate version, is purely populist. He is, above all, desperately incompetent, irresponsible, and therefore extremely dangerous. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u13	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. President Marian Jurečka will now appear, and Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, Madam Secretary of Finance, only Minister, fellow Members. I have to say, there's been a lot of talk about the tax package here in the House last month. I was here that night, and I was performing repeatedly that, in addition to a major state budget blackout, I also resent the fact that it is not the main purpose of increasing the discount on the taxpayer or increasing the discount on children, because that would be the measure that would be most supportive of those who really need help - parents, families, working parents, demography of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic, which is dying out. And then I was also talking here about the fact that it is not possible to cut off a large part of the incomes of cities, municipalities and regions that are already facing the effects of the crisis and that they have to cut not only on the investment side, but also quite often on the side of some important operating expenditure, which may also concern the care of people who have some health disability, are excluded, simply in the area of social, health, or support for leisure activities such as youth work, etc. Therefore, when this package went to the Senate, we had two options behind KDU-ČSL. Either put your hands completely away from it, do not contribute to any agreement on the Senate grounds, which would not have been possible without the KDU-ČSL Senate Club, and thus to the fact that there will be only and only a House version, which was really very, very bad in these respects and unimaginable. That is why we have decided to be constructive and act and look for a possible compromise that we have been looking for, both with partners, with colleagues from ODS, who have the strongest Senate club, we have the third strongest but also with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I have to say, these meetings haven't been easy, they've been going on for over two weeks. And I understood my colleagues... Or understood, I saw with them that the problem for them is above all increasing the discount on the taxpayer. And in the end, in the debate and in the Senate vote, we managed to justify a discount on the taxpayer in the proposal, although not in the original House version, which is a shame, but it could also have been that there would be nothing at all. So there is an increase in the discount on the taxpayer in two steps, by CZK 3 000 for 2021 to CZK 27 840 and by CZK 3 000 in 2022 to CZK 30 840. There is also an important thing that has succeeded here in the House, and for that I thank you very much, and it was the reduction of bonuses that could apply multiple families, but which was only up to CZK 60 040, and thus significantly handicapped families of working parents who had three or more children. And since it's best to speak with specific examples, I'm willing to give you a few examples of what it means to those families and those parents in practice. So I'll take the liberty of setting an example here. My father has 30,000 gross, my mother works part-time, they raise five children together, and according to the original proposal made by Prime Minister Babiš, this family would receive nothing more. But thanks to the increased discount on the taxpayer, thanks to the discounted tax bonus, it means that this family, where the parents work, take care of their children, set an example, earns an extra CZK 46 920 per year from next year. Then, for example, when we look at married couples who have about 35,000 crowns of income and work, they do this, the increase, to 55 330 crowns. Or if we look at the example of a woman, a single widow, has four children at home, is in a very difficult situation, works part-time around CZK 10,000 rude, so she would also receive nothing more, but thanks to the Senate proposal, this woman will remain CZK 22 716 each year. So there are examples of specific people, families, multiple families that will be better off economically from February next year. Despite all that has been said here in terms of the need to look for budgetary responsibility in the future, to look for savings on the spending side, and also to look for additional revenue in the future, so that it has succeeded in gradually increasing the discount on the taxpayer, which has not increased for 12 years, thanks to the removal of the meaningless ceiling for multiple families and the compensation that municipalities, cities, regions are returning at least part of the income they will need, I dare say that this is a compromise that I may personally be willing to support, but with the knowledge that in the next year and in the years to come it will be very difficult to balance the way in which the state budget is drawn up. They will have to look for significant savings on the side of individual departmental chapters, they will have to look for additional revenues. I think that what we have so far, the high tax on labour prices and the small tax on capital, we're going to have to balance these things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u15	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Now, Mr Radim Fiala, Vice-President Petr Fiala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief opinion on the SPD club. Of course, we have been discussing this matter for a long time, the tax reduction and the increase in the taxpayer's discount. But I have to say, it's a unique thing. During my time in the Chamber of Deputies, I don't remember tax cuts. And I'm glad to be historically at this point because I can imagine that for the next 20 years nothing like this will happen. It is as if some political parties have forgotten that they are a service organization for people, for the citizens of this country. And we work for them. I was there when some political parties in the past distributed social benefits to that, that, undirectedly, across the board, just to secure their election results. But this is a completely different situation. That's an address thing. We're cutting taxes. That means every working person who works is left with more money in his wallet. That means we support people who work, decent people who work for themselves. And I think that's the best way to get the funds to these people to do better. To make their children better. This is far better than handing out any social benefits or doing it any other way. So, for this reason, the SPD supports both the House proposal and the Senate proposal. But unfortunately, there will be a vote first on a Senate proposal that is likely to pass, and we want to be part of the tax cuts in particular, which means that we would support both proposals, but by starting with a Senate proposal that is likely to pass, we will also support the Senate proposal. And again, we're happy to be there. As far as budgetary imbalances are concerned, as it has been called, I am convinced that the Ministry of Finance can find two other options in a year or two. Our SPD's motto is that we tax multinational corporations so that we can reduce taxes on working people. I think that's absolutely right. I know the chains that work here, they have a turnover of ten billion crowns, and they don't pay any taxes. I know various servers that have a turnover in billions of crowns and do not pay any taxes! So let them pay taxes, the tax collection will also be in billions of crowns, and we can easily reduce taxes to people. I think it's the right approach. So, for the SPD, we're going to vote for tax cuts, and I think it's the right thing for us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr Radim Fial. Now with the factual remark Miroslav Kalousek and with priority right Petr Fiala. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the word, just very briefly, I don't want to delay. But Chairman Fiala, Chairman Fiala of the SPD, said he didn't remember any government lowering taxes. I would like to refresh attention: the introduction of a supergross wage in 2008 meant a significant reduction in the income tax on individuals, because there were four progressive rates before, and it represented roughly 75 billion at the prices at the time. That really happened, but it was at a time that was right for it. And it was offset on the other hand by reducing the mandatorial expenses. This means that the tax cuts were almost as large as today's, but they were not alone and were accompanied by appropriate steps on the balance-sheet spending side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Marian Jurečka's factual comment. I'll ask Mr. Vice-President Petr Fiala to be patient. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. I'm just going to add some more quickly, the previous coalition government, where we were part of as KDU-ČSL, reduced taxes. For the President of the SPD I will doplnit Fiala, it was in the form of increasing discounts on children, where there has also been progress in the fact that the discount on the second, third and other children has increased significantly more and this has brought over CZK 5 billion to the families each year. We have also returned a discount on our husband, our wife in tradesmen, and we have also reduced VAT in the past period. So there were a few steps that meant objectively reducing taxes primarily in order to support parents who work and have children. And I'll just make up for it - a discount on the taxpayer and a discount on the bonus for multiple families, so in 2022 it will bring more than CZK 23.5 billion to families and working people and parents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u21	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ODS Chairman Petr Fiala, will now speak with priority. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I will be very brief. On the one hand, I am supposed to be in charge of the negotiations at 10 o'clock - thank you to the Vice-President that he lasted a little longer - and, on the other hand, it is pre-Christmas time and, on the other hand, I think that almost everything has been said to reduce taxes over the last few weeks. And we've also had tens of hours of negotiations here in the Chamber of Deputies, in the Senate, so I guess we can't surprise ourselves or say anything new. I think the result of these long negotiations is the proposal that we have here today for approval. A proposal that came from the Senate. I called him a big deal a while ago, and I think it's a big deal. Great agreement between the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the region, the municipalities and the people. A big deal about tax cuts. And I am glad that the Civil Democratic Party had a significant part in this. This is also a major agreement because there are relatively significant compensations. The Senate proposal contains significant compensation for the regions and municipalities, compensation for tax evasion, tax revenue, something that has not been approved in this debate here in the Chamber of Deputies, although the Civil Democratic Party has, of course, voted in favour of this proposal. It is an agreement, a compromise also because we have found some balance between a reduction in the tax rate and a discount on the taxpayer who originally left the Chamber of Deputies in another version. We believe that the proposal that is now coming from the Senate is balanced and very reasonable. And I think that no one who thinks that people are supposed to have more money, their money, that people are supposed to have lower taxes, that none of these Members and Members can feel that they are politically defeated. The Senate version is balanced and good. And speaking of tax cuts, it involves 4.5 million employees. And for those 4.5 million employees, it's not a cosmetic modification, it's not some couple of meaningless hundreds, as I've heard it downplay the criticisms of this tax cut. It's quite a lot of money, and I think for someone who pays $20,000 a month, the extra $1,000 isn't meaningless. It won't be some meaningless hundreds for teachers, firefighters, cops, because a month - a month - will be added to their wallet somewhere between CZK 1500 and CZK 2,000, and everyone will know that by now. So it won't be a few meaningless hundreds for any working man, any earning employee. [[10.10 hours]] That is why I am also saying that the key word for today's action, today's decision-making is an opportunity. We have an opportunity to do something that hasn't happened here in a long time. Significantly reducing taxes and helping 4.5 million employees. And this is a huge opportunity. I'm here, listening at the beginning, hearing the Minister, who came up with a nice quote, I feel like it was Goethe, so I'm gonna come up with one quote, and it sounds like this: I'm in favour of tax cuts under any circumstances, with any pretext, for whatever reason and whenever possible. And that's a quote of course, some of you recognize it, those are the words of the famous liberal economist Milton Friedman, Nobel Prize winner for economics, and I fully sign those words. Yes, that's it. I am in favour of reducing taxes under any circumstances, with any pretext, for any reason, if possible, and therefore I am also pleased with what we have prepared and what has come from the Senate. In addition to the good news for people and all those who are employees, they work for 4.5 million working people, we also have one more opportunity - an opportunity to put pressure on the government so that the state does not only look for ways to choose from people as much as possible each year, but also to learn how to save on itself. And it's pressure that's not just for this government, certainly not, but especially for the governments that come. It is of course unpleasant pressure, because it is nothing comfortable for the government, but I think it is the pressure that is needed in this country. And I fully acknowledge that some make it a regret that, in reducing taxes, the state will collect a little less money from people. Yes, that's right, but I don't understand it as remorse. I see it as an opportunity. The money belongs to the people, they make it when, in the second line, they provide some of their money to the state. And from this point of view, I consider a reduction in taxes and also a certain reduction in the state's income to be a positive, useful impulse to start thinking and also, above all, to do something about the state's consumption. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's take the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity we have, show the courage to lower taxes, show confidence in people that they know how best to deal with their money, and then, in a year, show the ability that the government can do better, that it can manage more responsibly, that a good government can save money on the operation of the state, and not save money on people. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider the Senate version to be good and balanced, and therefore the Civil Democratic Party will vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u23	I thank Vice-President Petr Fial and we continue with the priority right to speak with the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek and then I will prepare for the performance. I'll hand over the meeting management. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. Let me respond to President Fiala's speech, because I think that President Fiala has said a lot of smooth, round, reassuring words that he says, nothing is going on, everything is fine, but it seems to me that much more precisely the substance of the ODS's position has been expressed by your well-known vile Mr Novotný, who recently wrote on the Statute completely hard and clearly: As we get to power, we will increase VAT and we will cut spending. So it's much simpler and clearer than what Chairman Fiala said, and it's exactly - Blue Chance is back. The whole logic and philosophy of the Civil Democratic Party is simply coming back to us. And even Mr Kalousek is wrong, who here said that there is no right-wing policy. Supposedly, he said no, because she doesn't make axes. Mr Kalousek is also wrong because this is a typical right-wing policy. I mean, you know what's gonna be next year's theme? Taxes all over the world because we're gonna figure out who's gonna pay for it. Do you understand who's gonna pay for this? The cost of it, the crisis. And the fact that it pays you the weaker, that it pays those low-income groups, that's where it goes. And it is a typical right-wing policy that the crisis will pay for those lower social groups that are in those low-income or low- and medium-income groups. So Mr. Kalousek confuses us when he says this isn't the right. This is a clean right, and even I say it's the modrý šance of the ODS, as we know it. Actually, she hasn't changed at all. And I repeat, instead of Mr. Fiala's pretty words, let's hear Mr. Novotný. It's a good thing we have someone here who says it so clearly. We'll increase VAT and cut expenses. So people will have something to look forward to. And I am rather sad about it, of course, because in this government and in the past we were actually quite systematically able to make a policy in which we tried to bring the Czech Republic into convergence. Converging against advanced countries so we wouldn't be a cheap country of work. And I'm just sad because we're actually taking this step, this huge tax step, we're erasing this policy. You know, making such a fundamental tax change, it means you're setting a trajectory, as if you're building dorms that show where it's going. That's the important thing. That's a really important thing, this tax change. I agree with the Minister that this is actually historical. But it's very important that it sets out where we're going to move on, because everyone who comes in will have to deal with the fact that they're not going to have income. And I think in a moment of crisis, this is a mistake. On the one hand, we were right in the government to invest, that we wanted to invest in the crisis, which was something I warmly agree with, and I think it's absolutely the right policy, even the lesson from what was last. Yeah, but if we want to invest, we need revenue. It's just that if you don't have the resources, you can't actually implement the investment policy. That is why we do not actually agree with this amendment, because it is in dispute with the fundamental intention that we had in the government. And I also don't think that this will strengthen the purchasing power. Of course, to a certain extent, but little, because I'm sorry, it's been said many times here, but when it adds significantly more to the rich, they just don't boost the income, because they're not going to put it back into consumption, they're going to get maximum mortgages or buy new iPhones, but that's just not gonna be a major boost in consumption. I don't think that's gonna work either, as promised here. But I repeat, what bothers me is the impact on finance and the second thing, the impact on convergence policy. That was one of the most important things to me. What does this country need? It needs to catch up with developed countries in the field of wages. And we did this, and I was happy about it. The dialogue we had on tripartite, the organic wage increases, that was what is so important for our country to be closer to Germany, Austria, etc. And unfortunately, I'm afraid that through these tracks that we set up like this, this tendency is simply canceled. I remember Prime Minister Babiš saying this somewhere, that it was actually about businessmen not raising wages, that they would not have to raise wages after this measure. Yeah, but that's just wrong, 'cause it's really the organic wage-raising policy that was the convergence of the state towards the developed countries, so it's like it's disrupting, like we're ending here. And for me, this was something crucial that we've been able to do in recent years, and we've done a lot of good things about it. That is why I cannot actually agree and neither can social democracy agree to this adjustment. She's actually betraying the direction we've been going, the direction to go away from a politician who has cheap labor, and that's all she has to offer. Go away from politics to build a country that is dependent on the stronger. Plus, I think it's in dispute with the... Look, I've been looking at Spain. In Spain, it is openly declared that the rich must now lay down on the poor, the weaker. And so I've seen the OECD recommendations that say corporations don't pay taxes, that they need to be hit in this crisis right now. That is, here is a strategy such in these countries or even in those OECD recommendations, so that those who have money simply have resources, wealthy corporations, the richer ones, to put themselves on the socially weaker ones today, so that it simply is not so that the crisis, eventually the consequences of the crisis, will be borne by the weaker groups. In that I think there is a great risk for the future. I just see these dorms as very risky, and I see it as a risk and a political one. Because I think that if the crisis increases inequality and the scissors are opening up, it leads to political instability. [[10.20 hours]] Let me tell you, if you look at the world today, when you see instability in the United States of America or in the United Kingdom, it's not by chance these are countries that are, according to the country's coefficient, with the greatest inequality. This means inequality, social inequality, leads to political instability. And it is very important in this country and it has always been important to build a social reconciliation. We did it. And I'm just worried that we're just sending the dorms somewhere else. And we're sending them to a time when, on the contrary, it turns out that for the few hundred people that they're getting today, they're going to choose from them... tomorrow we're going to collect thousands on the very VAT, thousands on the fact that they're going to be restricted by public services, thousands that they're going to lose tomorrow. I repeat, for those few hundred today, thousands will be lost tomorrow. That's where I think it's wrong. And that's why, as I said, I'm very sorry that the Blue Chance of the ODS is coming back today with this vote if it's successful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u25	Mr. Ondřej Veselý. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With priority right Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip is and has been reported. So, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u26	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Madames and gentlemen, I will be brief. Let me remind you that we have never supported a super gross wage as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. We were fundamentally against her. Because in times of crisis the tax burden on the population increased, notabene was multiplied by the amount of the then ODS, KDU-ČSL and first the Green Party, then later 09 tried to raise as much money from the people and basically strangled the economy and prolonged the crisis in the Czech Republic. Yes, 15 percent of the tax went up essentially to 20, and people had less money. Because we had a super-gross wage cancellation in our program, we were anxious to see when the government would fill its government statement and try to find some model in which we would not only be able to cancel the super-gross wage, but we would also be able to offer those people a solution that would not be at the expense of the state budget itself, at the expense of public budgets, that is, the budgets of municipalities and regions, so that all three budgets would breathe together. Including the funds' budgets, because they are also covered by tax policy. Of course, we can solemnly declare that we will reduce taxes to people, that people will remain more in their wallet, and we will not look them in the eye when we come up with an increase in value added tax, that excise tax will increase, and it is not just tobacco or alcohol. The excise duty on carbon fuels and lubricants will increase and people will have much more expensive transport etc. All of this must be considered at every tax step. So far, in a situation where he passed through the House, the Senát has undergone measures that, yes, part of the low-income population provides higher income, not only by reducing the tax from 20 to 15 percent, because it is no longer from a supergross wage, but from a normal gross wage, but from a deduction to a taxpayer. The KSČM club supported the individual options of reduction to the taxpayer, because the solution itself is not a differentiation of taxes, as it is in advanced economies. Equal tax is applied only where the tax administration does not normally see in the state. It's simple, but it's devastating to the economy. I could look at Japan, the individual rates of their value added tax. I could look at the Nordic countries' tax rates and what bands are there to make the tax burden even, so that those who create values are essentially not just the ones who live on the state. That, in my opinion, is the most fundamental. And we also expected when we supported the steps that lead to the resolution of the current pandemic crisis that the government would consider in these dimensions. That it is necessary to give some tax discrimination to those low-income windows when reducing taxes. Yes, we could have gone to four-band taxes or five-band taxes, as is the case in other states, which, in my view, are much further in balancing the individual steps. We have a dilemma ahead of us. If we support our programme objective - the abolition of the supergross wage - in a situation where, of course, the solution itself is without the second follow-up, how to ensure the stabilisation of public finances, how to ensure the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by the Communist Parties of Bohemia and Moravia, which the House voted that we are demanding from the government a seven-year plan to stabilise public finances. That's the dilemma. So far, the government hasn't responded. So far, one partial objective is being met - the abolition of a super-gross wage. And we want to meet the other target. That the abolition of a supergross wage would mean not only a fall, but a destabilization of the public finances in that subsequent step. That's a crucial thing for us. Yes, to put it simply, if I hadn't been interested in the context, I could have said yes, we are fulfilling our program objective of abolishing a super-gross wage, or, as some previous speakers have said, we want to participate in tax reductions. But on the other hand, it is important to know whether this step will lead people to feel the responsibility towards the future. And not only those who are currently paying those taxes, but also those who are still preparing for, for example, their profession and the like, to pay for it in the future. Everyone knows that every debt has to be repaid, and we don't have to draw attention to it. But on the other hand, it should be remembered that we always have that view much longer than one term, so that we don't surrender to a worse state than anyone ever took it. Thank you for your attention and I believe that the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, whatever it may be, will subsequently be supplemented not by some compensation for what is taking place in an emergency, but will be supplemented by how we will stabilise public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. The President, Marian Jurečka, will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. It's the end of Advent, almost Christmas time, so I'm just very brief, but I still have to respond to my previous speaker, President Vojtěch Filip. To hear from the President of the KSČM that in the governments where KDU-ČSL was, we took something from people and raised taxes, it is absurd when those who took people's property, lives here are your predecessors, when there were huge transfers, unauthorized transfers of property, when tens of thousands of people worked illegally in labor camps, in factories, in inhuman conditions, all of this was because of the Communists. [[10.30 hours]] And when you were talking so nicely about the discount on the taxpayer or the discount on the kids, look at history when the discount was introduced, who was in that government and who had it in the program as their priority. It was KDU-ČSL, for us it was long-term priorities - introducing discounts on the taxpayer, husband, wife and raising discounts on children. And that's the concept that brings success. Look, the Czech Republic has been able to significantly increase birth rates over the last ten years because it makes sense to support the economic situation of families so that they can invest in raising their children. So please, don't use false arguments here that we in the governments we were in didn't remember families, working people, working parents, middle- and low-income groups, because that's not true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. The President Vojtěch Filip will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I have to respond. Either we're gonna talk about how we're gonna do this in the future, or we're gonna talk about what was here. I was not involved in anything that Mr Jurečka was talking about, nor was he, although his political party was part of the National Front. So either stop it, or let's talk about dealing with the past here. I thought taxes were going to solve our future, which is why I appealed at the end of my speech to the fact that I wanted to see the seven-year plan to stabilise the public finances voted by this House. But, of course, President Jurečka, through the President, we can discuss either the big compromise, as proposed by the former President of Christian Democrats in Italy, or we can also resolve the permanent conflict that we have ideologically between us. But I think we're standing here for something completely different because of what interests the citizens of the Czech Republic tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the year after and the next five years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr President, I wouldn't have come here at all if you hadn't talked about the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Now followed by a performance with priority law, Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, if I have heard correctly, President Jurečka said, I will be brief because it is before Christmas. That's kind of what it was. And I think it is symptomatic that in the Czech Republic we are discussing such fundamental tax reform so that we all need to be brief because it is before Christmas. Instead of debating in detail what this will do in our country and what impact it will have not only on us, but perhaps on the least future generation that will come after us, we must be brief, because it is before Christmas. And the decision we make here today will really affect the future of the Czech Republic. And from my point of view, it is to some extent a struggle and a battle for the character of our state and what the Czech Republic will be like in the next not two years, because no one here believes that a government will come, win elections, win elections, and a political party will come and the government will come and the first thing it will do is raise people's taxes. I don't think that's entirely realistic. That means, unlike the promise given to the President of the Republic, it's not for two years, it's for a long time, it's de facto for as long as someone either gets the courage and raises the taxes, or when the state gets into such existential problems that some of the future governments will just have to do it. And I think that we are not fully aware of the seriousness of this decision. It looks nice, so, of course, who wouldn't want to cut people's taxes? If we did a referendum, I'm sure a lot of people would be in favour of reducing taxes. It, of course, needs to be careful with these questions, so as far as I know, there is no state in the world that puts tax issues into referendums, because it could happen that someone will propose to cancel taxes and it will happen. And unfortunately, the debate is on this level, it's not on the expert level, or the expert debate is going completely sideways. When I listen to experts, economists - the last time Mrs. Horská stepped out of the raiffy committee, or the committee of experts, because she said that it just doesn't make sense anymore - all the experts say that what we have on the table today doesn't meet the basic purpose for which it was done, that means that people stay more money and people spend it, so they support consumption. Because if that were to be the case, it would be the other way around, and what the Senate threw out would remain there, that means a massive increase in the discount on the taxpayer, or the basic amount, because it's fair, it's the same for everyone, and those people would really, especially the low-income people who would be so strongly supported, they would really put it into consumption. What's designed there means the tax shifts, so you can give someone with a low salary, a grand, so we all get $10,000 here. I understand that we may like it, but I hope that is not why someone votes for this bill. It's just unfair. It's unfair, the rich get ten times as much and of course they don't spend it. They may buy one out of ten new Mercedes, but the others either deposit it in the bank, so the banks will be happy, or somehow they'll postpone it, either way they won't be able to spend it right away. So the whole concept doesn't fit the assignment. The price is awful. The original prize was about 90 billion in the Prime Minister's proposal, then it climbed to about 140 by the night vote, and the Senate sort of corrected it, that he took the 90 originals and added compensation to it because he didn't want to turn the county and the municipality, so he switched it to the state with the fact that the state would borrow it. So in order to give the less income thousand and all of us here in this room 10,000 a month, the state will borrow it. That's a crazy attitude from my point of view, but okay, obviously, there's a majority here in the Chamber of Deputies. But that's not all I'm saying is a struggle for the state's character. So, of course, the right will say that there is a need for a minimum state, as little as possible, as little as possible, as much money as possible to citizens, the left will say, we want a strong state to be robust and be able to redistribute the money and balance the differences, it is a legitimate right-wing conflict. But it hasn't been here long, because, of course, there are a number of new movements in the Chamber of Deputies that are still being sought, and suddenly, de facto, in two months, we're going to completely change here and we're going to undermine the character of the Czech Republic. She was never a strong state in the Czech Republic. I remember, there were various recommendations in the 1990s, I remember a book by Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, which said that Central Europe is a region where hard budgetes and soft states are, that is, hard budgets and weak states. And that was popular in the 1990s, then of course it led to different problems and changes. I thought we learned that we didn't want hard budgetes and soft states anymore. And this is the way to soft state. And the moment we're dealing with a pandemic of coronavirus, when there's someone here every day asking for compensation, I wonder how a strong state can handle such a situation, and how a weak state can handle such a situation. So if we look, and everyone is throwing us Germany, then of course Germany is a strong state, but also look at how taxation works in Germany, how thanks to the responsible policies of the last governments they were able to create reserves, because they have something to create them from, because they have significantly higher taxation, and then Germany was able to throw or put a huge amount of money into the economy and support its citizens and their entrepreneurs. Well, if there's no place to get it, and the state is weak and has no money, then I guess it can't help much. And I am not even talking about it anymore - and this is just about the coronavirus - I am not talking about what it will mean in the future, what it will mean for our health services, what it will mean for our social services, security, education, research, science, development. [[10.40 hours]] The state plays a key role in each segment. And if that field clears out, or he doesn't have the money for it, well, logically, things will be looking for another source of money. And we'll be back in that debate -- we don't have it, we need to privatize it. So we sell hospitals, we've been here before, we start privatizing social services more massively than we do now. Traffic to the railroad, that's already been taken apart, that's where we have a system like in the UK today. It'll be in the mail in a minute. It'll come in a minute. And that state just loses its power and its ability from my perspective. I've said it several times, I'll repeat it again: we'll either have German services for German taxes or Romanian services for Romanian taxes. German services for Romanian taxes are not, it simply cannot be bought. With my extensive performance here, I am trying to illustrate how fundamental this dispute is, how fundamental this debate is, and what all this can mean for the Republic. Unfortunately, the debate is really reducing to being brief because it's vánoce and we're supposed to be quiet because it's good because everyone gets more money for their paycheck and the bank account. Those people with lower incomes who may now be counting the calculators and applauding how cool it is that they're going to have seven hundred more, so obviously they don't know that this budget is the last one that's coming together. The budget of 2022 based on what this House is about to vote for will be a huge problem. And it's just going to be cut, so the money, the seven hundred that stays in the account, is going to be pulled out of it in a different way. The money's only one in that cycle, and somebody's gonna pay for it. And as is a good practice in the Czech Republic, everything here pays the poor and the workers. So this is the future. I know I can't change anything anymore, because the vote is more or less given. A little bit of me, and I am slowly ending, has failed the Senate because - I do not blame the Senator here, because his ideological background would not allow him - but I had a little hope that the Senate would really try to redo the material in the direction that all the experts and economists called to really maintain the goal of maximum consumption support and make the proposal cheaper and fairer. Unfortunately, this failed and the Senate was satisfied with the fact that he had more or less settled, and not quite 100% yet, those falls in municipal and regional budgets, which still get a huge blow after the compensation. Ask every mayor or captain. I just expected a little bit more from the Senate, but I guess that's life. So from my point of view, it is perfectly logical that social democracy cannot support a single proposal. To be honest, it would be best for the Czech Republic if we didn't pass either, if we cut this episode off from history and pretended it didn't happen, and prepared to cancel a super gross wage. Because super gross wages are wrong, I agree with that. But we'd be preparing to cancel a super-gross wage more responsibly, more elegantly, and not as races in populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. In fact, the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond here to the Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD, Jan Hamáček, because he has not told the truth here and has shown precisely the ignorance of the opponents of the referendum. Minister Hamáček here said that no country in the world will vote in the referendum on taxes, depending on what it thinks. That's a lie. You're wrong. That's exactly the hoax that's been spread by those against the SPD program. I'll be specific. Taxes are voted on in a referendum in Switzerland. Let me give you a specific example. In September 2009 a referendum took place in Switzerland to increase value added tax in Switzerland. VAT, value added tax. It's a tax. Well, not only did they not lower it, they raised it in the referendum. It's just a little bit, but it's been raised. So, Minister Hamáček and Chairman of the ČSSD, don't tell people the truth on Czech TV live here. In referendums, there is a vote on raising taxes or reducing taxes, it is Switzerland in particular, and the referendum has even been held there, and people have not even reduced the tax. I suspect they even raised it from 7.6 percent to 8 percent. That means it's just for your information. And please, let's not make these arguments here, because I already know what those opponents of the referendum are, those elites who think they're smarter than citizens are gonna say that citizens... that we're not like Switzerland. Well, I think the Czech nation is good, it's intelligent, we're no worse than the Švýcar. I think that this argument should be left behind by the opponents of the referendum, the opponents of democracy, the self-appointed elites, because if we are not like Switzerland, it is high time that we start getting closer to the real democracies and start the real democracy so that we can get closer to the best countries in the world, and still not put it off under any excuses. We think that this country belongs to citizens and that it does not belong to elites.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u38	Social democracy is such an opponent of the referendum that it has submitted a government proposal in the last government and has submitted a parliamentary proposal within this term of office of the Government. And President Okamura certainly knows that it was a social democracy, which, by the way, together with the SPD, makes up the current constitutional majority and is ready to vote on the national referendum. So it's just a comment about how terribly opposed we are to the referendum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u39	Vice-President Tomio Okamura will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, this is for a longer analysis. The ČSSD here proposed a referendum law, which is basically toothless. You forbid the vote on your proposal for membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, of course you forbid the vote on VAT for Switzerland. All right. For example, you forbid a vote on whether or not we should cancel the Senate. That means, you guys castrated the referendum bill so that basically nothing interesting about what people want to decide can be voted on. So that's your suggestion just to get the wolf to eat and the goat stays in one piece. This is not a democratic referendum law. Not to mention that you proposed 850 thousand signatures to call for a referendum, so that no referendum could be carried out, and you proposed such a high deal that, in fact, no referendum would have been valid. So, through the President, Mrs Valachová, I do not think I need to discuss this. I know it by heart, and you know it, because we're together on the Constitutional Committee, I know your bill by heart. On the contrary, I know our proposal, the SPD proposal, to vote on the withdrawal from the EU, allows the Senate to be abolished, allows for further fundamental changes to be made, for example, in order to call off Members and Senators, if citizens decide to do so, allows these and fundamental changes that would benefit the Czech state, because we think that citizens should be able to decide in a referendum, on the condition, of course, that they collect certain signatures to avoid voting on everything over and over again, I understand that. It's supposed to be a democracy policy. And that is what we see as the third pillar of democracy in the abolition of the Senate. So on the contrary, that's our proposal. So I would really like to say to Mrs Valachová that we should stay with the tax package. Because if you want to discuss the referendum, I'm fully prepared, and I know it, I know all the suggestions out of my head. So maybe let's go to the tax package instead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u41	We will continue with factual remarks. First up is Mrs Tereze Hyťhová, then President Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would very much like to ask the ČSSD and the SPD to go back to discussing the tax package, because that is what our citizens are waiting for. We are not discussing a referendum or a law on a general referendum. So please, let's get back to the subject that's here, and that's the back of the Senate, and let's finally talk about the tax cuts so our citizens can get what they want. Please, let's get back to it. And really, there's no referendum here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka, Mrs Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. So the challenge, I think, was directed mainly towards President Okamur, because he started talking about a referendum here in his speech and began to remember who had ever proposed it here and so on. I would just like to ask the President, if he is so often speaking and in a different way as he is giving a positive example of some country, then the same countries, for example, for a negative example, so if he could name for him, which are the ideal countries for him in terms of those advanced democracies that he inspires, because then he sometimes talks about them, like they're the winners, the countries with the multiculturalism, and so on. So, if you, Mr President, could sum it up in some way. Let it be coherent, make it all make sense, because on the one hand, you use these arguments when it suits you, on the other hand, you use them when it doesn't suit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. Chairman Jan Hamáček will be ready. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, dear government, I really don't want to prolong the debate, and I would be happy to return to the tax package. But Mr Tomio Okamura here several times and repeatedly talks about the referendum and sets an example for Switzerland. So just a de facto remark about it. Only native speakers and no one else vote in the referendum in Switzerland.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mr Jan Hamáček, President of the ČSSD, will now prepare Mrs Valachová, after which, with a factual remark, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u48	I don't want to prolong it. Again, it may be symptomatic of the functioning of the Czech Parliament, that I have had the whole comprehensive speech here, which concerned the merit of the matter, that is, the tax package, to be struck head-on for saying something wrong, and in Switzerland it is voted in a referendum. Okay, I don't want to fight about Switzerland. I think we agree that Switzerland is a very specific country. If my colleague Okamura is calling for us to become a new Switzerland, I'm just wondering where we're gonna get the tons of gold that have been in the banks for ages. Maybe if we sold all the lithium we have in the Ore Mountains, which there's a lot of it, and almost social democracy stole it and already had half of it in bags in the People's House, as we learned in the campaign before the last election, then maybe that would be a chance to start our new Switzerland. That's an exaggeration, of course. It's what my colleague Okamura says. I'm not defending the debate on the referendum. Absolutely. And let's debate direct democracy. But I would also like those who are the main supporters of direct democracy and referendums here to set an example. And now I've opened the SPD statutes and I recommend reading them to everyone. That's all, just not a direct democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u50	I responded very briefly to what was said here. And I think it must have been said that social democracy is a supporter of the referendum. That's where I'm happy. Of course, I accept the challenge of President Okamura. Let us debate the referendum afterwards when we are in the final vote on the national referendum, as we discussed it on the permanent Commission for the Constitution which I chair, vote, I believe, during January and February.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Chairman of the SPD Tomio Okamura, final point of fact at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u52	Well, I'd respond to that nonsense. President KDU-ČSL Jurečka probably sat on his ears because he was the first to hear about the referendum, and I think the audience heard it, the President Hamáček spoke, not me. I responded to his mention of a referendum. So the chairman of the KDU-ČSL just sits down and ears or lies. One or the other. So it would be a good idea if you were to express yourself accurately or not go to the microphone at all costs, if you don't know at all. The other thing is, you asked me to introduce the country. I was talking about Switzerland. But it's a problem that you didn't listen and you came here to blame me without listening to what we talked about. After all, I was talking about Switzerland, that I should set an example of a country to which we could go. The next thing is Minister Hamáček, Chairman of the ČSSD. He mixed apples with pears. I wasn't talking about lithium or gold, I was talking about a model of democracy. It has nothing to do with lithium or gold. I was talking about the model of democracy. I don't know if we've heard each other. And last of all, Minister Hamáček was picking on this place, so I didn't understand that at all, he was picking on the SPD here. Well, I'd like to say, please, when will your Secretary of State of the CSSD and former Governor David Rath be released from that prison? I beg you for the corruption. I've already forgotten a little bit, if you wouldn't mind reminding me of the time that your senior ČSSD official will be released from prison. Furthermore, if you can clarify to me, because in the case of the ROP Northwest, these are the huge subsidies in the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region, I read about two months ago that ČSSD politicians are facing up to 16 years in prison for corruption. You were ripping up hundreds of millions of subsidies. So can you just tell me if it's still 16 years old, if it's threatening the politicians of the ČSSD, or if it's less? Like, yeah, and now the trial started with your politicians, they said they were stealing from there. And I even have the whole fascicle of the corruption case of the CSSD, of all those who had to resign or are locked up. Well, I've only got three seconds to make that point, so I'm not gonna read it right now, but if you go on the microphone, I'll be happy to read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Now Mr Pavel Blažek's factual remark, President Chvojka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u54	Hello, thank you for your word. An important meeting took place in 1967 before Christmas, the plenary session of the ÚV KSČ, where they had an important point on the agenda - the removal of Antonín Novotný. During the session, a comrade, whose name I can't remember now, said about the following: Please, let us end this, we want to bake cookies. I'd love to cook candy now, please. If I had baked it, I wouldn't have eaten it myself. But please, I will ask my colleagues from the ČSSD not to respond to what has been said, there is still a lot of room for elections, and let us return to the points under discussion. Because, comrades, we need to bake cookies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. But he will perform with a factual remark by the chairman of the club ČSSD Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u56	Good morning, colleagues. I will respond to Vice-President Okamura through you, Mr Vice-President. I don't know who and when will be released from prison. In each side, there was a person who did something unfair at some stage of her operation. But I do know that he was released from prison for some 14 days, on parole by Mr. Balda, who was a fan of yours, maybe even some secretary, and there I remember he wanted to, and there I remember that this man wanted to derail the train and kill several dozen people. That means you can write this down, that there are problems with you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u57	With a factual remark, Chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u58	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. That's how the SPD has voted for over half a million people. So I don't know who voted for all of us, they're not all members, so I can hardly be responsible for someone I don't know who's from our constituents. But what I do know is that proven ministers and senior representatives of the ČSSD have been closed. So the Minister of Finance, Ivo Svoboda of the ČSSD, because in the first phase I have already named some, tripped the company on the committee of Liberto's strollers. The Prague Court, together with his advisor Barbora Snopková, sentenced him to five years in prison for tunning this company. That's got to be the CSSD. Yeah? Or, do you remember your Minister of Agriculture, Petr Zgarba, of the ČSSD? In April 2005 Jaroslav Palas became Minister of Agriculture in the Government of Jiří Paroubek, at the same time he became President of the Presidium of the Land Fund. He was criticized for abuse of authority and implementation of the selection procedure for Český Telecom without a selection procedure. - He was conducting a tender without a tender. [[He's laughing.]] - In November 2005, he resigned after a scandal with a non-standard sale of state land. It was found that the Land Fund in the summer of 2005 allocated valuable land to speculators in the surroundings of Prague at minimum prices. Or do people remember the five Czechs on the table? Former Czech Prime Minister Stanislav Gross and Mr Paroubek from ČSSD Zdeněk Doležel offered to Polish lobbyist Jack Spyr to provide him with information on the privatisation of Unipetrol for CZK five million. That was five Czechs on the table. Of course, I'm not even talking about privatizing OKD. Well, I don't know how long to go on. Again, I say we go back to the tax package.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u59	The Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will respond to your speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u60	It's hard to get back to the package when Vice-President Okamura here pulls out the file he's leading on us, and he starts pounding us on the head here and he thinks we're gonna let it go. [[The reaction of men. Okamurs off the microphone.]] I didn't start it. It's okay. I've been doing business here. The first person to attack because of Switzerland was you, Mr. Vice-President. But it doesn't matter. I think I'm gonna stop because it's pointless. Of course, the advantage of new political movements or recycled political movements is that they have no history. I'm assuming my colleague Okamura won't report back to what he was doing here when úsvit worked here. Now the SPD is here, starting out like a new table. Of course, social democracy can be blamed for a lot of things, because we are the oldest political party, we can get into the debate that we did in the first Republic, and it would be about a long time. [[11.00 hours]] But again, you know, at least as a social democracy, we're predictable. We're the ones who can expect what we're going to promote. A colleague of Okamura has been blaming me for being here since 2006. Yes, I am. But since 2006, I have still advocated the same social democratic views. Unlike my colleague Okamura, who was still an ambassador of the European Year of Multiculturalism in 2008, which was a project within which, for example. Theatrical performance Our Islam focused on the education of viewers in the area of Islamic culture and religion. That's the same Tomio Okamura, who today is the main fighter against Islam and the main exorcist of migrants. So at least we're consistent. You guys are like a banner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u61	Mr Václav Klaus will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I, as an educator, would like to take a bit of a swing at this. So I wanted to wish everyone a nice Christmas. I'm really looking forward to it. The fact that the SPD and the ČSSD are made up of bunch of criminals, as I'm learning here, is sad, but let's not let it ruin vánoce. And let's not let it spoil people's taxes. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will now perform with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Back to taxes, I totally agree with that. I want to respond to some speeches by the Social Democrats in particular. Unlike President Hamáček, I'm glad we have a right-wing center. I respect the views of colleagues on the left side of the political spectrum and will, of course, defend our views and the citizens will choose what is closer to them. And if you look into the thirty years of the Czech Republic, sometimes the right wins, sometimes the left wins. And those opinions are just legitimate, and they meet in proper political competition. First of all, a few words about the vote we're about to take. Our club, as President Fiala said, will support the Senate version. Not only because our joint club with the TOP 09 and the KDU-ČSL Senatorial Club were, I would say, the architects of the agreement that arose on the Senate's floor, and I thank them very much for that, but also because the Senate version is better suited to our vote on the amendments in the Chamber of Deputies when we voted on it for the first time. First of all. We did not vote in favour of Mikuláš Ferjenčík's proposal to tax sales of companies because we are aware that although there was talk of some billions, it would really end up with family companies and start-ups. We didn't vote for him. The Senate has taken it out correctly, which means it confirms our vote in the Chamber of Deputies. We voted in favour of compensation for cities and municipalities in the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, at that time, most of them didn't exist. The Social Democrats, Mr Vice-President of the Government, supported this only by three votes from the present, the others did not support compensation for cities and municipalities, so that you would start shouting the second after the vote: that is terrible, those cities and municipalities will lose money! The public debate also escaped - and I apologize, I think it was also submitted by Mr Ferjenčík - what, fortunately, did not pass, but it has to be returned to the public debate, the Pirates proposal to increase property tax for entrepreneurs, quite forceful in the course of two and three years. Luckily, that didn't work. And that just shows other political opinions that I respect, even though I disagree with them, about how we should work with taxes. President Hamáček here said it wouldn't pay for some 700 people to cut taxes. About 700 savings won't be for anyone. If I take a minimum wage of 15,200 and convert it into a Senate version, it's CZK 1,021 exactly a month, it's 12,000 a year, and it's a really significant improvement for people with a minimum wage. Not that they have a lot of money, but we have to be precise when we want to discuss things. And Minister Zaorálek here was talking about us wanting to raise salaries. Well, what are we doing, Minister? We're raising salaries. So I married - the Minister of the Interior is not here at the moment - but I took the data from the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, Minister Zaorálek will certainly interpret it to him. I have here six professional groups that fall into the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, and this is Prison Service, Police of the Czech Republic, Fire Rescue Corps, Customs - although customs may apply to finance, I don't know exactly, soldiers and GIBS. I came out of the approved budget for next year, divided it by the number of members of one or another service, and I calculated how much, if we approve this proposal in the Senate version, how many of these members, members of the integrated rescue system, the Interior Minister and other ministers have repeatedly thanked for their valuable activities in recent weeks and months. So let's say it all and exactly. With the Prison Service, if it passes the Senate version, on average - I am aware that it is an average - it is 29,000 a year, Mr. Home Secretary. Is that wrong? $29,000 a year for members of the Prison Service? At the police station, it's 32 256 kroner exactly a year. Is that wrong, Mr. Home Secretary? It's in your resort. It's 33,000 a year for firefighters. Is that wrong, Mr. Home Secretary? Or, Minister of Culture? Isn't that convergence when wages increase by tens of thousands of these people a year? Clean? Not 3% in gross, but 33,000 net tariffs per year. For customs officials, it's 32 800 a year, it's 34 500 a year in the army, and for GIBS, who are best paid because they're guarding the guards, it's 44 800 a year! So, Home Secretary, come on over here and tell me these people don't deserve the money! You're against it! Not to mention paramedics, doctors, nurses... And I could go on like this. Mr. Home Secretary here repeatedly - because he's already used it in a television program - he's lying. He says the right wants a small and weak state. Well, at least it's a deep misunderstanding, unless it's a pure lie. I wouldn't be so steep two days before Christmas Eve. The right wants a small but strong state! And not a state that crawls everywhere, and then, of course, it's weak because it wants to solve everything and the state just can't deal with it. Let's remember how the Home Secretary said, geez, coffee in a bag, that's too much, that's too much. - That's what the Home Secretary, who's a supporter of the great state, said. Where did the state show strength in this detail? It's just to disprove his repeated lie that the right-wing wants a small - that's right, and a weak state - and that's a lie. We want a small, strong and functioning state. Less stamps, less confirmation, less bureaucracy. That's something our colleagues on the left-hand side of the spectrum can't imagine because they believe they know better than citizens what to do with the money. They don't spend it all. Well, don't spend it. They'll invest in their children's education, housing, giving their parents something, buying them something. What's wrong with that? What's wrong with making savings for weeks and months that can undoubtedly come, even if none of us want to? So it's such a clash of those who are so proud, so proud that they know better than those people who do with their money. We're not that proud. We say that no government - listen to me well - no government, not just this, no government knows better than citizens what to do with their money. And that's our long-term stance. So, of course, you can't blame us for voting in favour. Because there's no taxation on those family companies and startups when the founder tries or even sells it. There is a significant compensation for the municipalities, they will have no problem next year, there will be no reduction of investment activities on the part of cities and municipalities. And there's an increase in the basic discount. Dear Social Democrats, citizens' democrats, and not only civil democrats, have made several proposals in recent months and years to increase the basic discount on the taxpayer. How did you vote? Look in the junk. Unmistakably against it! Then out of nowhere, for me quite surprisingly, you voted for the biggest increase in basic discounts. In my opinion, you were led by a misconception: the worse, the better, it does not end up, those who want lower taxes will be frightened and will vote to maintain existing taxes. In my opinion, some colleagues have also chosen the wrong tactic in the Senate to promote the rejection of the parliamentary version in the House. So let's say what rejection means. It means that the House version will pass. After all, we know how we voted in favour of the House version. In other words, those who talk the most about how it is necessary to protect municipalities, municipalities and regions suddenly recommend their senators to vote really for zero compensation. And the Senate didn't hear them, I'm glad, even some of the senators from those clubs, where their leadership advised them to reject this law, and I'm glad and I'm adding it to the negotiating ability of our negotiators in the Senate. So if we sum up, basically good news for taxpayers. [[11.10 hours]] In fact, everyone here today was talking about the need to support those who work. But that's a specific matter of how we support them. In 2017, I was handing out such a tax ruler, where roughly seven percent of the net wage was shown at different gross wage values. Thanks to the increase in the basic discount, the result is even more favourable. The ruler was still pessimistic, because there is still an increase in the amount, and even in two years, that is, the first increase will be in 2021 and the second, which corresponds to what we have proposed in the long term, we have proposed 30,000, actually taken into account the inflation since 2008, it will be about 30 840 if memory doesn't deceive me, so this will also help especially low-income and medium-income groups in two years, but up to a total of 6,000. Thirteen months from now, the discount will be 6,000 higher than today, and that's gonna be lower taxes. At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies succeeded on the proposal of Mr Výborný, I think it was the proposal of the entire KDU club to cancel the tax bonus. This means, too, support for those families who have four or more children so that even these families can benefit from tax reductions and that was the right step. So when we add it up, it's actually good news, and I don't understand those who are so desperate with such, I guess, weak arguments are against. Suddenly and if we asked them, how did you vote on the savings last week on Friday, such as the Social Democrats? We have offered 80 billion savings. Infallibly, you have rejected all possible savings, so don't be surprised that your words about budgetary responsibility make us laugh rather than think. And to be positive, I firmly believe that today we will be able to do this, that we will find a majority for the Senate version, and that by February, the millions of our citizens who work honestly will have higher payouts, and they will certainly deal with the money wisely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u65	Thank you to President Stanjur for the performance. A real remark from Vice-President Okamura, and then we will get to the next debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I still have to respond to the President of the ČSSD Jan Hamáček, because I really do make Islamization the main opponent of Islamization a supporter of Islamization, I have never participated in any pro-Islamic action in my life, I can't really comment on it anymore, because these are desperate arguments anymore. On the contrary, I would mention two things. For two years now, there is a bill from the SPD pen in the House to ban the promotion of hate ideologies, we mean Islam, on the contrary, we are blocked here, and the second thing is that we have a law here for a year and a half, or over a year to ban Islamic cover-up in public. And also, even though all the parties on television have declared that they support the SPD proposal, it is a proposal that we have basically rewritten from Austria and Denmark, where it started to pay and is valid there, so we would like to enforce it in the Czech Republic, and it is blocked by us. That means, unlike the president of the ČSSD, we say not words, but actions. And I would just remind the President of the ČSSD and the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček at the Turkish Embassy, it was at the reception for the 92th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish Republic... This is the phone ringing, Miroslav Kalousek. Well, I guess somebody forgot. Maybe it's Mr. Kalousek's phone, so I'll put it down. And I'd say quote. [[Fun in the hall. There's a messenger coming to the speaker's counter. Stanjura.]] Yeah, well, Mr. Stanjur, it's Mr. Kalousek. [[The blast of laughter.]] Well, that's it, so you can see how there's internal cooperation between ODS and the top. [[We are all Kalousek.]] You're all Kalousek. No way. I was gonna say... So I would like to get to the quote by President Jan Hamáček, where he said at the Turkish embassy - I quote: "Islam has proved and continues to show that it has an unrepresentable and incalculable role in the development of human society." So, it's the President of the CSSD's opinion, I don't agree with him. We think it is not, and we will do everything we can to prevent Islamisation of the Czech Republic and there will be no illegal migrants and Islamists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u67	I thank Vice-President Okamur. Now I have two factual points - with my colleague Ferjenčík and my colleague Valachová, if that is the case? Then Lubomír Zaorálek's priority right, okay? Real remarks take precedence, you know that, Minister, so now the factual remark of Mr Ferjenčík. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to Stanjura's speech in particular on the issue of abolishing the tax exemption for income from the sale of securities over CZK 20 million per year. This is clearly not the case with family companies, because family companies are eseróčka and they were not involved in the proposal at all, first of all. Secondly, it is true that the ODS did not support the abolition of this tax exemption, which supported the YES movement, but supported the proposal to increase the rate from 15 to 23 percent, which was part of the amendment by Andrej Babiš. So I find it very bizarre that the Prime Minister and the ODS are criticising the proposal they voted to raise the rate from 15 to 23 percent. I also wanted to comment on the fact that we have actually proposed some increase in the gradual rates allegedly from commercial real estate. And that's easy. The moment labor taxes go down this massively, we think we need to look for either savings or some other income, or those public budgets are gonna collapse. Unfortunately, you're only going the way of the meltdown. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u69	Now, on the factual point - he actually reported the first minister, but there was a misunderstanding, but you are both of the ČSSD, so agree who will go first, because the minister actually applied earlier, so I will give you the space, two minutes to the actual. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. In fact, I also want to respond to Mr Stanjur, who frankly surprised me because he said: we give, we give to everyone, what is wrong with that? Like that really impressed me. He says it as if we had the money to spare. As Mr. Ambassador, we're borrowing money. We don't have the revenue to cover the deficit, we have to borrow it. It's like that Katz feldkurate. That's what we all do when they lend us. But for how long? So the recklessness with which the MP says it is such a beautiful thing, I don't understand it at all. And only when he says he still doesn't understand what we don't like. Look, if we divide the population of the Czech Republic into income according to the fifth weakest to the fifth strongest, then the fifth with the weakest income gets like this, and the fifth with the largest gets here. [[It's showing a graph.]] Do you understand? That's what we don't like. This inequality here, because if you look at the analysis, it says today that a tenth of the households have been hit hard by the crisis today. Those are the ones downstairs, the ones that get so little. A quarter has been hit, say, medium hard, by a third of the population has touched this crisis. That means this is what the crisis is going to be like, and it's going to be next year. And even one more thing is interesting. The analysis shows that this tax treatment will help Prague and the rich regions most. The weaker ones we should help again, we'll let them fall even more. So you get it? Here's what I don't like. That we're dealing, we don't have it in a while, we have to borrow it. And if we borrow it, we should use it effectively so that it multiplies economic growth and that it is given to those who really need it. Is it really that complicated, what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u71	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u72	By your means, Mr President, Stanjura has entertained me as always, it is becoming a tradition. And I have two questions for him through Mr President. He has certainly noticed that, as far as wage and pay growth are concerned, these have been growing since 2015, and one of the fundamental reasons why this is happening is that social democracy has been promoting since 2015 year after year, often with great resistance, or I would say with regular resistance, the growth of guaranteed wages. That means all wages. This means not only the civil servants, but also the people in the premises, in the factories, accountants, warehouses, drivers, but simply all the professions you imagine. I am glad that Zbyněk Stanjura, by your means, Mr President, has taken as an example what the Civil Democratic Party is supposed to return to people on their wages, firefighters or police officers. Yes, they can get it back. But only because social democracy in right-wing governments and their blunt cuts added it to them from 2015 to 2020. So this is really a big win for them, Mr. Colleague! [[11.20 hours]] Then, of course, I have two questions for Zbyněk Stanjura about you. As you guarantee that this wage and salary growth will continue in the coming years, months, and that employers will not respond by saying: You have that back from the Civil Democratic Party on taxes! We won't give you another penny! I warn you that this information from entrepreneurs, fabric, but also unfortunately also the municipalities and regions I already have today. And the second thing, by your means, Mr President, Mr Stanjur, will that 30,000 firefighter and policeman be enough to pay his children's tuition, health care, and social welfare?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u73	Time! The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will now make a point of fact and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. And then Jaroslav Foldyna, a Member of Parliament, is applying to the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u74	When the Social Democrats make me like this, I'm happy to answer. For the Minister of Culture, I have a little graph. Minister of Culture, have the same graph processed regarding health and social insurance payments. That's not what you're talking about! We have a fair price! Two equal taxes in the Czech Republic. They're called health and social insurance. And those who contribute to these systems and have higher salaries, of course, contribute much more! I'm talking about middle class. That's the middle-class law! This must be said quite openly. This tax reduction will mainly affect the middle class. But those are the ones on which our public finances are based! Those are the ones on which our pension system is based, on which our health system is based! And now we're suggesting we take a little less from them. You guys are all freaked out about this, how can we afford it? To those who pay the most, leave a little. They'll still pay the most! They'll still pay the most! Or do you feel that it isn't? So look how you pay social and health insurance! Four and a half percent pay the employee, nine percent pay the employer. It's just a difference when it's paid out of $20,000 or $40,000, right? It's twice as much. You don't talk about that at all, you take that for granted. Let them pay as weep, let them give us their money, and we will divide it wisely! Now for the questions. The other one: I don't know why any tuition should be paid. Anybody suggesting? Are you suggesting that, Social Democrats? Like there'll be more money to pay for school? We're not suggesting it. So simple an answer: There's no such thing. Unless they choose a private school voluntarily. But it's the parents' business where they invest their money. Whether they choose a public school or a private school. It's none of our business! That's the family's decision. And the second question, I forgot exactly... [[He's hinting at the finance secretary from the newsstand table.]] Well, that'll be easier. And the argument, yes, you're right. I don't think many employers are going to raise gross wages, because - So I'm going to apply once more so that I don't stay in debt to answer. [[Attention on time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u75	Well, I'll write you up as Prime Minister. So Stanjura. Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and again Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to Secretary of Zaorálek. He says we cut taxes and give out. Notice the rhetoric. Minister, we don't give anything, we leave only some of the money with the people themselves. That's the money of the people who made it. That's sick socialist thinking. You already automatically consider that money yours! You'd like to be paid 100% of that salary to give you everything they've earned, and only you'll recognize what you'll give to whom you'll give! That's not your money, Minister! The state has to collect as little taxes as possible. Such as to provide basic public goods and services. Not the best way to recruit thousands and thousands of new civil servants. That's not your money! People had to make money first, so at least give them some of it! Since 2013, this government has raised CZK 400 billion more. How much more money would you like to pull out of taxpayers' pockets to make up for it? How much? Then say it! How much higher taxes are they supposed to be?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u77	Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna will now appear and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will prepare himself. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. I was just making a comment on the graph that the Foreign Minister was showing here - not the Foreign Minister, not the culture now - the Minister of Culture. He's showing two tax groups here. The low-income and high-income ones. Minister, my colleague Luboš Zaorálek, what about those in the middle? The middle class, the teachers, the employees in Skoda? Aren't we interested today? I went to a department store in Děčín yesterday. I asked in several open chains what their situation is, etc. And they all said to me, "Yeah, we've got a lead in Berlin, we've got a lead somewhere." You know, there's no discussion here about what interests the Czech taxpayer and the middle class. We totally missed her. [[He speaks loudly, emotionally.]] We're showing low-income and high-income here. What about the ones in the middle? When are we going to start talking about what we're going to do for the Czech businessman? I rarely agree with Mr. Stanjura, but he's absolutely right, he's telling you this: the group of people who pay the most taxes and finance this state, it fell out of your repertoire. Unfortunately, she fell out of the repertoire of social democracy. I've been in it for 30 years! Social democracy was 28, 30 percent when she talked about people's work! What's he talking about today? I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u79	Now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will make a point of fact. And the chairman of the ODS Club, Zbyněk Stanjura, will be prepared. All right, Prime Minister, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u80	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, fellow Members. I was going to ask if the House of Honor could finally vote. I've been waiting to get off here this morning with an emergency. I should have been in the hospital by now, at the U.V.C., 'cause we're prepping the vaccinations. And we have a virtual lunch at 12:30, the end of the German Presidency, so all the ambassadors are there. So I wanted to ask you if you'd like to keep it for next year, those ideas clashes, and that you could vote so I can go to work! I'm not going to bake, but I need to, tomorrow's the last day of work, and we're busy. So I'm sorry, but please try voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u81	The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura will now make a point of fact and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u82	First, a brief response for Mr Andrej Babiš - not for the Prime Minister. For Mr Andrej Babiš, through the Vice-President, when I address the Members. You're at work, Mr. Ambassador. When the Chamber of Deputies meets, it is the main work of the Member. You're really at work here. So I don't know what you're wondering. And I think it's a good thing that arguments for and against fall, and I bring arguments for. And to respond to Mrs Valachová through the Vice-President, yes, I think that many entrepreneurs and employers will welcome this because they will reduce the pressure on wage increases because people are interested in net income. Not rude or super gross, let's face it. They're interested in the clean. And this is the chance that net revenue will increase significantly and that will reduce the pressure, to be said to increase gross wages. Which is very good in these weeks and months. Because we have direct effects of the pandemic on those who cannot enter into a limited business and also indirectly by lower demand. And if we want to keep jobs, it's not good to raise costs that may not increase to employers and entrepreneurs. That's an honest answer. Yes, it's a way for people to have more money in their wallets at the expense of the state, not at the expense of their employer. And I think that this difficult economic time is the right solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u83	She will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Valachová and then, lastly, please prepare Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík in factual terms. Madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u84	I am glad that my colleague confirmed what many employees are afraid of. And I think it really makes the employees and the middle class very happy, the 4.5 million people, that under the Christmas tree, they're gonna know their wages aren't gonna grow, but they're gonna get something more from the state. And they get nothing from the employer who does their job. And that's part of the plan. So that is truly joyful news. Let's see what they have to say. And the other thing. Well, tuition isn't really what we propose as social democracy. That's what you proposed, the Civil Democratic Party. Just like medical fees. And it was your overall approach, as you suggested, a flat tax. Along with the tax bill, you suggested this! That's why I'm pointing it out, and I'm asking, when's the second part of the plan?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u85	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now make a point of fact and I have another one - President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond briefly to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you have brought in conflict with the coalition treaty, which announced that tax changes will take place in advance enough for everyone to prepare for this, the law that we have here on 22 December, even the president has already announced that he will not sign it, so on 1 January he will not be in the Collection of Laws yet, you have tabled this law here at the last minute as a parliamentary amendment, where you probably didn't even realize the many effects it has on it was not an expert opponent, and now you're accusing us that we're discussing the law? You really must have fallen out of cherries! It's just not normal for you to be here when the biggest tax reform in the last 12 years is being done here, pretending that we shouldn't talk about it, that you need to go to a hospital somewhere. You must have missed your calling! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u87	And now for the final application to the ODS President Zbyněk Stanjura. That way, Mr Ondřej Veselý, who is certainly long prepared, will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u88	I've almost given up, but one last time for Mrs Valachová. We really don't understand each other. The state gives nothing, the state takes less. That's really different. I know you don't understand, but try to think about that sentence. You're a grant guy. Yes, that's what the state gives when you come up with some great new grant title with 80 attachments that the applicant has to fill out, and then a patronising committee sits down and either says yes or no. And when we have Social Forgiveness - some poor guy sends it a day later, the great state administration is gonna get on top of him and they're already pulling the money back and they're not even asking if the accountant was sick or what the problem was. And it's not true that wages won't grow. Do not lie, Madam Vice-President. You're lying yourself, but I'm sending you the message through the Vice-President. Don't tell me wages won't grow! You can see in every table that the wages will grow! And when I say that someone will grow 40,000 pure, and you say they deserve it, your Home Secretary is proposing an increase in that salary of 80,000 gross, which would be correct? Did he really suggest it? Did you, as Social Democrats, really propose that this be an adequate increase? So don't confuse people! Of course, all employees will increase their incomes. Those who have a minimum wage of CZK 1 021 a month and all others adequately. And that's it. And it just bothers you because - and I think that's what one of the previous speakers said - you consider the money to be your own or state's. But that's the people's money. Then don't take them! That's all. The state doesn't give them anything, it just takes less from them. There'll still be taxes, they'll still pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u89	Now one more factual point, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, so far the last application. Please, madam, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u90	Yes, the state will take less from them to give them less for their work by employers. You said it, not me. And everyone who listened to it heard it. And as for your constant lies - because you are lying if anyone here is lying through the President at all. You have to tell the whole truth. It is not the legacy of social democracy, but of your, Civic Democratic Party, that the fundamental income for the state, for quality health care, social care and education hangs, I suspect, from 75 percent, perhaps even from a larger amount of income from personal taxes. It was a social democracy that repeatedly proposed higher corporate taxation, foreign capital, banks, digital tax. It's you who's blocking it, not social democracy. So don't lie here because there's something to pay for these health care, social welfare, and education. And when you were in power, in addition to a flat tax, you imposed health fees, social welfare charges, and you also proposed tuition fees against which college students were rebelling. That was it, and that's not a lie, that's the bare truth, and everyone knows it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u91	It has again triggered the reaction of the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura, so, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor and will prepare for the de facto Mr. Václav Klaus. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor. I have an unconventional request to the Minister of Finance. Madam Secretary, I have a request. For example, pack November's budget implementation data, put it in the recommended mail and send it to Mrs Valachová to find out what is the highest income, from which taxes or insurance is to the state. Social insurance comes first, VAT comes second, and personal income taxes go far beyond that. If you don't know, it's a very difficult debate. Every month, you'll find it on the Ministry of Finance's website. I've been watching this for about 18 years, because it has an impact on municipal budgets. So just once, look at which taxes fill the state budget the most. And most of all, it's social insurance, what the middle class pays from their wages - both themselves and their employers. Far the most! Then VAT and much less income tax for natural persons. And four billion for a sector tax is really not going to improve that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u93	I now have two factual points, so Mr Václav Klaus will be the first to speak and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared. So, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u94	So my Christmas appeal for us to vote clearly missed the effect, but it was hopeful. Here I read on the Internet, Mrs. Míša writes to me, taxes are just debts of those who stole. I think that those headshunters of social democracy should step up, because this lady could be the president of the parliamentary club in the next parliamentary term. Our view is exactly the opposite, which is why we will vote in favour of this law, but the wording of the tax is only the debts of those who stole it is a folk version of what Minister Zaorálek, Minister Hamáček, and here the speakers...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u95	We haven't heard the end of the mic. It's okay. So now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will perform. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u96	One last comment for me. I hear the Chairman of the ANO movement says he needs to go to work. I think, through Mr President, the good news, the Chairman of the YES movement is at work, and I am... [[Prime Minister - a note from the government bench.]] Okay. Mr President, I apologize for smiling. . [[- That's okay. - Fun.]] But the Chairman of the ANO movement... Mr. Chairman of the ANO movement said he was paired up. [[He's laughing.]] Okay. Well, thank you for this lightening, Mr President of the YES movement. However, I must respond to Zbyněk Stanjura through Mr President. Mr. Chairman of the Civic Democratic Party Club, don't try to train me here. I was talking about the ratio between taxing individuals and legal entities. You understand that very well, and I think you're smart enough. That's my last point. I think that we will undoubtedly have a lot of gloss in general debates, so that is the last point for me at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u97	We will now return to the current applications for the general debate, so Mr Ondřej Veselý will speak. That's how you got there after a long time. And then Mr Pavel Blažek will be prepared. Please, there's room for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I confirm your words. Looked like I was gonna get my turn at ten o'clock, so I waited for a while. I'm not gonna make this any easier, of course. I'm gonna stir up the feud. I remember, and I was here one of those Members who sat here when we approved the tax package sometime between one and two in the morning, and I saw the horror of what we approved here. Almost everyone was terrified. Not all of them, but almost everyone was terrified. And we've all been looking to the Senate to see what the wise chamber will do about it and how it will fix it. Well, then, we had a pretty good look, and nothing happened. The only thing that's positive about the Senate proposal is that it's a little bit, not quite, but a little lightening the regions and the municipalities, which means that the debt is rolling more on the state. That's the only positive. But with a much bigger hook than the Chamber of Deputies did, it takes people. I take people all of them, of course, and we have about half a million high-income and the rest of them with lower middle and lower incomes. That's reality. I'll answer Jarda Foldyna, too. But before we start talking about it, just a couple of numbers, please. Let's say which states we want to belong to. I'll tell one group. The richest EU state is Luxembourg per capita. Do you know how many Lucemburčan have tax rates? Ten! Ten tax rates on personal income. The lowest starts at zero, which means that if they really want to help those who have low incomes, they have a zero tax rate. The highest is 38%. [[11.40 hours]] Another state that we wanted to serve as a model, Austria - four rates of tax. Lowest 0 percent again for low incomes, maximum 50 percent. And Germany, another model of ours - five tax rates. It's more complicated there, but in general, the lowest 0 percent and the highest 45 percent. These are states that could serve as a model for us. In order not to miss another neighbor, Poland has the lowest tax rate of 19 percent, which is what we proposed, the highest 40 percent. These are the tax rates of our neighbouring countries. Slovakia has a flat tax of 19 percent. Whoever still has a flat tax in Europe is specifically in the EU, it is specifically four states. Romania has the lowest flat tax, 16 percent. And we're going to 15. We're going to 15, so we're going to look even worse than Romania. That's a real proposal for both tax laws. And it doesn't matter if they're from the Senate or if they're from the House. They're both completely wrong, and they're damaging this country. I would like to quote the economist Horská, whom I do not know personally, and I doubt that she is the left-wing, left-wing person who said this about the tax package when she left: "In the crisis situation in which we are in, every crown in the budget is good, and we are going to throw a lot of money out of the budget here. [[Nesroz.]] If the money at least comes to the low-income ones that they help, but two-thirds of them the state gives people with higher incomes. The money will not be written into the economy and will drown abroad or in real estate." I don't think there's a better way to say it. We, instead of adding to the ones the crisis hits the most, give them a couple of hoops. Someone said these people could save themselves. Please, which one of you last lived out of 20 rude? If someone gives you a grand, do you think you can spare her? Well, you won't. You're not going to live in complete poverty and you're going to improve a little bit, but you're not going to. Given how prices are rising, and given what it's going to say, that means in the future, and Kateřina Valachová has already said that, it's just a question of when the health fees will come back again, when social services prices will rise, when there will be a debate about education again, or people will have to buy more school aids for their children, so they will actually get nothing at all. But there's a group of people, and there's a big one that you're swapping with that tax package completely, and that's the people on the pension. They don't get anything out of tax change. They're not gonna get any higher, and they're gonna be even worse off, because they're gonna pay everything that everybody else is paying. Next year they should increase, I think in 2022, sorry, over a year they will increase their pension according to wage growth, which means they should not increase at all if we do not agree here in the House that we will substantially increase their pension beyond valorisation, but we will give them nothing from the tax package but nothing at all. The same, or very similar, is the case with low-income people. Of course, they get an extra thousand, but in turn they pay a few thousand extra, because the state stops providing services. Not next year. Not next year, next year we're making the Greek road. Hey, we're gonna borrow all the money. We'll provide everything that's now, we'll borrow it. How long do we want to stay on the Greek road? 2022, 2023? Or are we gonna start picking it out of these people? Of course, we'll start picking things out differently. Because these people are gonna give that thousand back a couple of times. As Jarda Foldyna said about middle class - through Mr President, Jarda and I have known each other for a long time. Yes, middle class gets more. He'll get more than the low-income ones. But it's going to be about zero. It's going to be about zero. He's gonna be about zero on what he's paying back. So the middle class of this tax package ultimately doesn't add anything at all. And the only ones who make extra money will be the rich. Whoever gets an extra eight grand and spends more, so he'll be in plus five. Well, they're great at it. And again, I turn to Mrs. Horská. Two thirds of the deficit we're creating here, we're giving two thirds to rich people who either send it abroad and they're definitely not investing it to boost consumption. The tax package in the crisis doesn't make any sense at all. In general, it doesn't make sense, but it doesn't make any sense in the crisis at all. It's bad, we'll vote against him, of course. In conclusion, let me say that the right-wing conflict, of course, is okay, that it is happening. But people have to choose who they want in the government. We offer them something from the ODS, we offer them a state that will take care of them when they need it, never let them down and not tell them: we've added something to your taxes and you save up. A guy who takes $20,000 doesn't save anything. It's obvious that those who are saying this here have never really been with this person. So those who vote for the Senate package or the House package, if they fail, even though I think the Senate passes, create a debt spiral that is not limited to one year. It's been years. She sent money abroad, allows the flow of money from the Czech Republic, which should stay here, because the rich who get it will not invest it here, they already have wealth here. He buys new wealth abroad, something by the sea, someone in the mountains. But to those who need the most help, we give virtually nothing with the tax package, and on the contrary, we lie to them to add a thousand, but then we take thousands away from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u99	Now I have one more de facto. So Mr Jan Skopeček, the de facto Member, will be prepared in Mr Pavel Blažek, the general Member. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u100	Thank you very much. My colleague Veselý quoted and commented on Mrs Horská's economist. It's a little interesting that he didn't listen to her a few days earlier. This economist, I think, resigned yesterday from the Committee on Budgetary Prognosis, in view of the fact that the budget was drawn up on water. That the revenue side was set for a completely different growth than expected by the Czech Republic next year. So, colleague, I don't know how you voted on the budget, but I think you voted in favour. Now that you're quoting this economist, you should listen to her more and not just choose what suits you. If you had listened to her, as you pointed out here, you could not have supported the state budget that your government brought to the Chamber of Deputies. And I agree with one of you. People really choose. For you are countries that have simple and low taxes, evil. For us, evil is a country that has high and complex taxes. You want us to inspire ourselves in the Czech Republic by having an even more complex tax system than we have, and even higher taxes, because you simply think you can redistribute the money for people better than they can. We don't think so. We think that ordinary people have more sense than the ministers of our government, which is why we think that money will be spent in their pockets by them alone, certainly better than if you were doing it for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u101	So now I will ask Mr Pavel Blažek to wait, because with the right of priority, Minister Alena Schillerová has signed up for me here. [[The minister gives a messenger. Blazek's priority.]] So, Madam Secretary is giving you gallant space, so please, Mr. Ambassador, do you have... [[Posted by Blažek: Brno handle.]] Brno handle, you see, that's what I learn. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u102	Hello, thank you for your word. Well, I'll start - don't worry, it won't be long. I'll start by reminding you of an inconspicuous anniversary that's today. And today it's 50 years since the lessons learned from crisis development have been accepted. And now please don't worry - or not today, but in December 1970. Now don't worry, I won't read it, nor will I attack the Communist Party because they have nothing to do with the document. However, since we're experiencing, at least if I'm reading the papers and I'm seeing television, and I'm also seeing a crisis, I just want to introduce you to some of the lessons that I'm taking from what's happening right now, and maybe you'll agree with me on something. Well, the first lesson is very simple. Neither we nor our successors should ever vote after an exhausting day at some point in the night about some complex laws. It turned out the way it did. And I think that's a lesson number one that's very simple. The second is more complicated and this is the situation of our media. What the Czech media showed after our nightly vote led me - and I have been cynical for a long time - to believe that the best thing is to read almost nothing and not look at anything, because the approval of the so-called. The tax package became merely a pretext for the fact that suddenly ODS, YES and SPD voted together. That's all it was. And that's all it is about some of the political parties that are talking here, like, today, for example, colleague Ferjenčík, with all due respect, is talking about taxes, but this is the essence of the whole speech and what is happening. With Mr. Babiš behind me. He's a man of character. [[He speaks to him, entertaining in the hall, laughing.]] He's a man of experience. He's rich. [[- You're pissing me off.]] I'm sure he's not stupid. [[I don't know.]] That's why caution is in order. Very convenient. But this does not mean that it is not possible to vote with him on a matter such as taxes. We didn't vote here to change the character of the state, that there was a monarchy, that Andrej první is joining, and the Prime Minister will need Jaroslav Prostějovskýějovský here. [[He's pointing at the messenger. Falty. Fun in the hall.]] [[11.50 hours]] We have voted on a normal tax package, a thing that we have long said is right, and our goal - here we are talking about taxes, but taxes are only one example of politics - our aim is to stop the coming socialism. And that's because, in short and good terms, people are getting too used to the state to solve everything because of the covid crisis, but even before that. The state will pay for everything, the state will take care of everything. And worst of all, he can ban what he thinks right now. And the only way we have to go in opposition is if we don't give the state enough money to continue this policy. Unfortunately, the media has arrived - it reminds me sadly of some twentieth year, when the birth of a new world is expected, all the Švehl, stříbrný, Gajd and I don't know who's gonna stink terribly, and now something very new comes up and the old one, which you are for journalists, Mr. Babiš not in age, but also you, the established movement works for eight years, must at all costs go away with some ODS, the SPD, too, and now they have to start something new. And I'd like to tell everyone who's been writing this to realize that maybe once again they'll remember what, whatever they were, the times have been the last thirty years, and that their desire to change who they'll be the first to meet will be them. And unfortunately, they're unlearned, and I'm sorry. Therefore, a lesson from crisis development. I've learned my lesson. And a lot of these things just can't be read, and I'm fascinated by the extent to which the incredible commentators are completely blinded by the Antibabiš. Please, Babiš is here, he'll still be here, he's got a lot of support. Our goal is to have that support as well. But the danger of democracy is not that I am voting with Mr Hájek, Mr Faltýnek and perhaps Mr Žáček on some kind of tax. The danger of democracy has always been and will be what is called tribalism, or tribal thinking. That actually means either some nations are fighting with each other, or this party thinking is so awful with forgiveness that society is going to get into it. This is exactly what the Czech media are doing, and they are escalating it, and it is necessary for them to realize this responsibility that they do not fully fulfil. I'm just gonna argue with Mr. Babiš, I'm gonna argue with him, but that doesn't mean it's the end of the world that he's the Prime Minister. Well, it's not. Everything can be done better, and I hope the Prime Minister won't be in the next period. But I'm not gonna encourage those moods to get people who vote for him to fight in the pubs where commentators mess with them. It's a huge media failure, and I'm terribly sorry, and I'm afraid they're going to continue. . [[Applause with the center of the hall]] And lesson number three. We denied the state some income that night. After all, it is the responsibility and right and authority of the House, so we did. What bothered me back then was that, in exactly the same way, we gave money to other subjects from day to day, and now I am thinking in particular of self-government, whether regional or municipal. That was a step that wasn't entirely happy. We have the right to determine the money, of course, but to do this day-to-day, that is, when different municipal officials have been working on a long-term plan, building procedures and so on, and now they learn from day-to-day that they simply can't do it, because it was decided in the House, it was something that bothered me even then, and therefore I am glad that the Senate accepted the option that it accepted, because I think that such a solution is right, of course it is not ideal, but it does not have to be ideal at all. Finally, perhaps one thing as Czech is a beautiful language. I saw Mr. Vice-President Hamáček on TV this morning, and now I think I'm gonna say it right, he said, "If it's approved today, it's gonna cost so much and so much." - Here you can see how the state in the Czech language, even if it's a coincidence and it doesn't have anything to do with the language, it's just that it's still going to cost something. And what's wrong with standing as little as possible, and I'm fascinated by the leftness and so-called right-wing commentators crying about having less money. The more money it costs, the more power it will have, of course, and the more people will get used to not moving a step without a state. And we've been building a company here for 30 years to make everyone get used to it, that they have to, if they have skills, health, etc., if possible take care of it themselves, and the rest is the state. And this world is ending, and I'd like it not to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u103	Now, with the right of priority, Minister Schillerová will speak, and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. So please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u104	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. I'm gonna add another one to the economist Mountaineer's Horská. Not that it's that important, but you guys quoted one, the other, so I'll add another. She also supported the proposal called. pension reforms, which means a huge hole in the spending side of the state budget, insecurity of income, basically just a system of parametric changes. So then you pick what to do, what to do. And that's it. I don't think it's worth talking about. The development of the budgetary forecast is a matter of the National Budget Board, it has at least seven members, it has ten, it will have nine, I think its activities will be in no danger. I'm not gonna talk long, I'm not gonna repeat all these arguments, I've got a whole series of graphs, numbers, I've had them here during the whole legislative process, whenever I can take any of them, my wages are calculated, otherwise, of course, we have a calculator on the Ministry of Finance's website, we've already started the discount, so everyone can enter their net income and it's gonna look like how much they save. I think the debate is the conflict. And I'm not going to call him ideological, because I'm going to consonate - I'm not going to say that I'm dealing with the right hand, and I'm not talking to the left, I'm going to say that I'm consonant with the common sense that has been said here. And where the common sense was heard, I'm in agreement with it. And that clash is about the philosophy between the income and the expense side. That's what we're discussing here. So when I listened to Mr Ferjenčík or some representatives and social democracy, Mr Ferjenčík, do you dream of a world where everyone has equal income? Where's everyone's equal pension? Well, I don't. I don't dream of such a world, and I don't want to live in such a world. Because otherwise I can't explain your words when you say it's for the high-income ones. Who's the high-income guy? Who? President Stanjura here had examples of armed forces - yes, they are numbers from the state budget, and they are true from the individual chapters. But I'll give you some more examples. Teachers, you're all here as teachers, isn't that a middle-income group? The paramedics you're all applauding and applauding, because who's more important to this health crisis now than the paramedics? Isn't that a medium-income group? Isn't it? When the average salary of a doctor in hospitals is over 80,000. Isn't that a medium-income group? And why do you say they make the most of it? Tell them those people pay higher taxes. There's been a rumor here that they're paying higher. But they also pay higher taxes. So logically, they're just going to have more savings from the higher income. But even so-called. The low-income people with the minimum wage just get thousands in the year-round cut and what's left of them, including the discount that's now going to be accounted for. It's just adequate to the income and how much they contribute to the tax system. And I think that's okay. And such a world is perfectly fine. So now the clash is that the state just keeps less at a time of such a severe crisis. He'll give the money - let's not talk about how much the state budget is going to lose, but that the $70 billion in tax cuts is going to stay in people's wallets. And it's been said here, and that's the healthy common sense for me that they know best how to handle the money. And if they don't spend it, if they keep it and save some of that money for retirement or get something, what's wrong? And what are you guys bringing up? What apartments abroad? It's just that these people - I can see how our real estate purchases went up year-on-year, and we're in a tough crisis, 6 percent. We have certainly supported this by canceling, and I thank all those in this House who have raised their hand to do so by abolishing the real estate tax. And these are the stimuli that are recommended by the world's renowned European workplaces. It's the stimulus to the economy. That's what this is all about today. [[12.00 hours]] I think rhetoric should turn around. That she should turn around, that it's not what the state gives, it's what she doesn't take. And that's how we're gonna support the economy. I would like to tell you that this is probably the most monitored law of citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm sure they're texting you the way they're texting me. They're watching it happen. They will watch very closely who voted. They'll be watching your opinions. They will follow the views of the Pirate Party, which here says that because there is not their huge discount, notabene calculated each year differently according to the average wage, but it also needs to be said that you had it in custody with a tax of nineteen and twenty-three. Which means an increase in the self-employed tax. They will watch as the Czech party of social, social democracy, I apologize, social democracy, which has been presenting itself for years as a party to work, as it will vote for 4.5 million employees. They're gonna watch the STAN vote. Because there are compensations in this proposal for regions, towns and municipalities. You've been tearing me apart for three quarters of a year for compensation. They're in your RUD. It'll bring 22.7 billion next year, a little more in the years to come. That means the compensation is moving plus minus about 80 percent. They'll be watching all this. They'll be watching KDU-ČSL vote. Because there are discounts, there are compensations, there is a bonus that President Jurečka mentioned. All this will be watched by citizens. And it's so good. It is so good, because I think they will know exactly how who thinks, what is the priority for him and how he will behave in the next parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. Now, factual remarks. Mr Dolejš is the first Member to prepare Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u106	Nice noon, well, straight noon. I won't forgive a tiny gloss that won't keep you too long. When I hear the apotheosis of common sense here and the fact that a good farmer understands that less money to cost more happiness for the people, I don't quite think so, because unfortunately after 2021, which will be extraordinary, let's face it, maybe we'll blow the debt another half a trillion, but there will be years more. And the draft in the state register, the money stream we're building today, unfortunately it's systemic, it's not going to cancel, and it really isn't, less the state isn't lucky for the people unless the money is to pay dignified pensions, keep public health services publicly available etc., etc. The political promise of rising salaries in education must also be respected. All of this could be threatened. I understand we have Ježíšek in a few moments that people are looking forward to those few hundred to a clean wage. I understand, of course. But maybe in time, people start to realize that debts have to be paid. And that's the main danger we're dealing with here today. If there was a system step, I wouldn't say B. Because in a way, it really solves the situation we're in right now. But unfortunately, both the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes and the abolition of the supergross wage system step is. And let us just say that the political consensus in this Parliament on tax reform, which would prevent the tax enema, is difficult to create. And it's a question of how it's going to be in the next period. That is why we need to draw attention to this, which is why it needs to be explained to people that there really is no less state, there really is no more happiness for the people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Martínek will prepare for factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to briefly respond to the Minister, because she has said some things that are not entirely based on reality. Firstly, as far as the equal income is concerned, of course, we do not push for that. But there will be a debt of CZK 100 billion extra, which will spread evenly among the citizens. And that's the problem. So the parental leave that comes out of it, the public education that comes out of it, that's all the services that citizens get in the same way, and that money is going to be on them to a lesser extent as a result of this measure. That is why we think, and the government also says that consumption is to be strengthened, that there is a better tool to increase the discount on the taxpayer. First of all. Secondly, the discount on the taxpayer tied to the average wage was a proposal that was filed completely separately. So it's not true what you said about 19 percent. This proposal was submitted completely separately, helping employees and businessmen alike. You cut him a little bit in the Senate. It's the only tax cuts that have gone through. Well, don't tell me we wanted to raise taxes for businessmen. What you are talking about, we have put forward as a counter-proposal for Mr Babiš's proposal, but that is a completely different amendment from what has been adopted. There was no 19 percent bond here. One last thing. Once again, I'm going to repeat the important thing that I think people should also make decisions. As a result of this law and as a result of lower gross wage growth in the Czech Republic, pensions will grow more slowly. For the most part, your tax reform will be paid by pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. Mr Martínek will continue, then Mr Veselý. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to perform, but after populism, Madam Secretary, I have to respond a little. Because here is a proposal to add a few hundred crowns a year to people working for minimum wage, while the average Member saves 70 grand. Is that really what Members really need right now? Oh, my God. Why? We are presenting something that most economists recommend, it is an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, which will just help to move the Czech economy in a time of crisis, increase consumption, because these people will actually spend it. And you're criticizing it. You're saying you have to lower the rate that just doesn't make sense. Here, now that we've done an analysis of what other countries, how they approach this support in the context of the crisis, and if they're moving somehow with rates, the de facto only country in the EU that does that is now Sweden, and it's the pirate way to increase the discount on the taxpayer, because it knows that this is what helps the low- and medium-income and even the economy to move it. It doesn't help to save people here to buy another house and then raise property prices for all the medium- and low-income ones. It's just a thing that everybody's gonna pay for. One hundred billion extra, 130 billion in the next year. In addition to the already huge deficits of 300 billion, this is an incredible rate of debt. Let us remember that we can reach the debt ceiling in about five years. And then what's the interest we're going to borrow? Six, seven percent? We'll pay tens a year, hundreds of billions only for debt management. We're not gonna be able to do that anymore. I mean, we're gonna have to, like, come up with huge cuts or extreme tax increases. All citizens will pay for that. Let's act a little sensible, a little responsible, and let's not bring in pre-election populism here just for a few, a year of tax cuts, to make sure everyone gets beat up extremely in five years. Let's be reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. There are other applications, Mr Foldyna reporting with a factual remark. Now he doesn't, now he's not... I'm just making sure it's a factual point. Yes, well, thank you. First, Mr Veselý, Mr Skopeček, then Mr Foldyna. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm also taking the liberty of responding to the Minister. People write to me, too. And they say you can't let that happen. After all, you once prevented an equal ODS tax that would harm all of us, and now your coalition partner is carrying it on a gold platter. You have to do something about that. I mean, what's this state gonna pay for? - That's what people tell me. That's what people tell me. That means it's not true that everyone's excited. Those who think about it and know it and look into history know what it means to them. That it's not gonna suck and that they're gonna have to pay for everything. In this distorted right-wing logic, it would mean that it would be ideal if people didn't pay taxes at all. Great. We leave them with everything they earn. But he'll pay for everything, too. That means those with low incomes, we give them two grand, they pay ten at the hospital, they pay five at the pharmacy, and they pay twenty at the universities. Where are they gonna get it? It'll only be for the rich. [[12.10 hours]] So this thing is taxes for the rich. And you're giving money out of the 100 billion you want to get stuck, so you're giving over 60 billion to rich people who don't turn it around in the economy... [[A note from Mrs Cernoch.]] I'm sorry, I won't scream, thank you, Mrs Černochová through Mr President... You give the money to rich people who keep it and don't make the economy stronger. And the poor, and that's what my colleague Ferjenčík said, especially those who are in retirement, you're completely out of control. You're not giving them anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Skopeček and then Mr Foldyna. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u114	Just in a little bit. I'll respond to previous pirate donations. I still don't understand the rhetoric. If low-income people in the Czech Republic pay very low taxes or almost no taxes due to various discounts, it is logical that when we reduce taxes, we will not be able to lower those taxes any more. That's what's going on with the middle-income group that's going to help the most. If we have a tax system set up against low-income so generously, and I'm glad it doesn't pay almost any taxes, well, it just touches them less than the medium-income ones. I don't know what the weird logic is. About the consumption. Yes, I understand that somebody argued, and the government argued that this would increase consumption. But I don't care what people do with the extra money they have left. Some simply consume them, some need to be saved, if people have enough money and don't consume it and save it for retirement, so it's definitely good news, because because of this government, they just can't count on sustainable pensions for a few decades. So if they don't use it, but they save it on retirement or building savings, I don't care what it's for, it's the right thing to do, and it's nothing to criticize that tax cut. Just let those people do what they think is best with the money they're making and we're gonna let them do more of that money today. Someone saves it, somebody uses it. Why do we have to dictate and tell them what to do about it? And another way for a colleague of Veselý. Don't really dig those ditches between rich and low-income. According to many international studies, the Czech Republic is a very egalitarian country. A very egalitarian country. What you're doing here, this fight rich versus poor, it's embarrassing, it doesn't belong here, I understand you're trying to save yourself in some way, but that's really not the way. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. And now, if Mr Ferjenčík has withdrawn his application, Mr Foldyna, in any event. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to make a comment on a fellow Pirate party who argued here by the Members. I think that's the highlight of populism. Listen, my friends, here to argue two hundred people and say about the people with the lowest incomes, respectively. With basic wages, they're the ones that make up about 1.6%. But there's been no mention of the most important, the five million middle-income people, the employees, the teachers, the cops, the locksmiths, the paramedics, the good masons. [[He's talking very strongly.]] You don't give a shit about them, but you're pointing at the MPs here and some people who have what's called basic income. That's 1.6-1.8 percent of people. Five million people in this tax reform can have more money at home. You know, and maybe I'd be for that state to have more money. But a colleague of mine, Maláčová, wouldn't be allowed to sit here, who's throwing the money away with a handful. A colleague of mine Petříček, who sends the money to Belarus, to Africa, couldn't sit here, but I'd like him to send it to Rumburk to the hospital or Děčín! That's where we're in big trouble. But it's just that there's a different way to manage the money here. So I'm glad the money stays with those who earn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u117	Thank you. Mr Černohorský, then Minister Zaorálek, with priority right, made his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to point out that, if we cut our revenue, we should, of course, also cut on the expense page. So I have a question for the Minister, where are we going to save the 100 billion we're about to miss, and where have the government been saving up to this point? I can also ask coalition partners for ČSSD - ODS is in opposition, so it can stay calm for now. Because then we're really gonna miss the money. Because if we don't have the expense side adjusted, then we have to borrow the money and we're in debt to the young generation, which will have to pay it back. I may be able to answer through the President Mr Foldyn - but he has disappeared somewhere - that when we seem to cut off the money, we really can't send it to Dečín at the hospital and others, because we just won't have the funds. And at this point, I'd like to know where the Secretary of State will save about 100 billion so that we don't have to go into debt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u119	Thank you and I'll ask for some peace in the room. The Prime Minister apologizes to us for business reasons because of a business lunch with the ambassadors. Now, then, priority rights. First Minister Zaorálek, then Mrs Kovářová with the club's position. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. I'm sorry I have to get off again, I believe for the last time. But there's one thing I need to ask when I listen to it. It really is quite a crucial thing for me to hear the answer to. It concerns what has also been said here from the mouth of the ODS Members, who have said that they actually do not want to weaken the state, they want a strong state. Why? Because we all seem to know that we need a functioning health care today, because it's all on him. We even need to manage things. I'll tell you one thing. I spoke to Mrs. Chief Hygiene, and I remember - I was angry at one of them that they didn't hire more people on time. And she said yes, we hired them, but no one wanted to come to us for the money. That means we want the sanitation stations to work today, and if you look at how much they pay, you'll find that we can't get people in those places. That means we need a state of operation today in a wide range of areas, social, hygiene, health care. Can you imagine if we start questioning this state today? I mean, in this crisis, it shows how crucial the state is. Whole vaccination. Even the fact that we are in the EU, if we weren't in it, we have vaccines sometime next December! So this works, the system, and the state plays a crucial role here. That's probably why the ODS says she wants a strong state. And here comes my question, which I'd like to hear the answer to. So if the ODS says it wants the strong state, then I ask - and how will you pay it, the state? There is a structural deficit of up to 150 billion. So you have a structural deficit of 150 billion here, and I'm wondering how you're going to deal with it. If you want to keep strong standing in a situation like this, where do you get the money? I'm asking you exactly where you're gonna get the money, where are you gonna cut it? I have read somewhere in my opinion, I don't know which one of you said that you would, for example, liquidate retraining and investment, an active policy of work. This is an excellent idea at the moment when we need to revive the economy, eliminate active labour policy and retraining. That's great. Well, then I'd like to hear more of your great ideas where you're going to save the money, where you're going to get it, where you're going to cut it. There's a structural deficit of 150 billion, where do you want to create the strong state you're talking about? And how do you make it? I don't see him. You didn't even answer that! If you want to liquidate that revenue, then tell me how you will maintain the essential functions of the state that are so important in this crisis. And I'm asking, why don't you want to and prevent employers from adding money to their employees? Why are you stopping this? Like, why does that bother you? Why do you want to end this country's convergence policy, which I consider essential? This country's convergence to developed countries was a crucial matter for me. And you want to stop her. Why? I'll tell you why. Because you're good with cheap work policy. You just like the state in which the wages are low. And you're actually destroying the middle class you're talking about. Your policy just leads to the middle class, which will do for a few boogers! So, please, don't tell me about middle class! Because your politics will lead them to have bare butts!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. And now, Mrs Kovářová, with the opinion of Mr STAN, then Mr Klaus, duly signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, let me join my colleagues and tell you the mayor's and independent club's position. First of all, I must point out that at the beginning of the parliamentary term, everyone would think that abolishing a super-gross wage is a good step. After all, most political parties had the abolition of a super-gross wage in their program. The government had it in its programming statement, but it hesitated over the years, and it was not until it was quite suitable for such a solution. And the unsuitability of this move has proved, as he says, the best finance minister of all time, Andrej Babiš. He managed to make an opinional high, despite his statement that the abolition of the supergross wage would destroy the Czech Republic, destroy the Czech rating, and submit an amendment, which means the biggest tax change, before the end of the year in second reading without proper commentary procedure completely isolated without any link to the adjustment of expenditure and with his step he will close the axe of CZK 100 billion. So the state budget with a deficit is not going to be 320 billion, but more than 420 billion. And that's certainly not enough. In addition, it will loosen the rules of budgetary responsibility, despite many warnings from a number of experts. In this way, the government will fundamentally undermine its revenue and threaten the stability of public finances even though the rules of budgetary responsibility clearly say: the state, the municipalities and the regions are to manage so as not to jeopardise the stability of public finances. And what's the current situation? The municipalities and the regions observe this and the state? Well, he certainly isn't. The Prime Minister also made his amendment to the attack, the largest in the history of the Czech Republic, on the finances of municipalities and regions, which would thus lose more than 40 billion crowns. Fortunately, this reduced the Senate relatively, but still the municipalities and regions will lose almost 9 billion crowns a year. The compensation is not 80 percent, Madam Secretary. The compensation is 67 per cent for municipalities and 71 per cent for regions. And just for those who call themselves the architect of this success in the Senate, I must state and ask, why did you not support the proposal of the Senator's Club of Mayors and independent of compensation for municipalities and regions of 90 percent when you have the income of municipalities and regions at heart? And what the secretary said. Yes, the compensation will be 22 billion, but it won't be 100 percent. You take the money away from them first, and then you compensate them. And that's the contradiction. The Minister also mentioned that the government does not want to go half-gas, and that the government will therefore go full throttle. I just want to point out that when driving fast sometimes it is also necessary to press the brake, especially when the red light is on and the red light flashes soon. And you're saying that it's going to be more money in your wallets and that it's good news for the taxpayers? And you're talking about common sense? So my healthy common sense tells me that it's more money in wallets, but it's also more money in debt, and that debt will be paid by all taxpayers. Yes, you put more money in one pocket, but you pull it out of the other pocket. For the above reasons, neither the Senate nor the House's version will support the Mayors and Independents Club. I would also like to respond to the Minister who knows what Mr Ferjenčík is dreaming of. And I'll tell you what else I'm dreaming about for refills. I dream of a government that will not devastate public budgets, it will be budgetaryly responsible, and it will think of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. And now, Mr Klaus, duly signed up for the debate, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, it's my turn. He doesn't have priority rights, so I'm just going to give you a brief statement from the Tricolore on today's vote and taxes. People need some joy and hope in these difficult times, and we believe that tax cuts are such hopes and opportunities. This is an opportunity for rich people who pay huge taxes in the Czech Republic, of course it is an opportunity for people, the middle class, who are the living people, which is the most, but it is also an opportunity for people whose incomes are relatively small. Someone laughed that it's only 700 crowns a month, etc. I still remember when I was a teacher and I had CZK 10,500 wages, what it was when I really had $3,000 extra, what a terrible difference it was that people with higher incomes don't even remember. Tricolor belongs and will belong to those who always vote for tax reductions. We like it when citizens have money and not the government, especially this government. This is important to us, which is why we will support the Senate version - for two reasons. Firstly, there is not a majority for the House version at present, and we want to reduce taxes. We don't want to wrestle around and tuck political shirts around. We are also prepared to defend this tax reduction for any veto of the President of the Republic or any other obstruction. Mr President, I must say, he signs one left-wing regulatory and nonsense law after another, which is based on this House, without a blink of an eye, but once we want to leave the money to people, he goes along with the ČSSD, Pirates, Communists, TOP 09 and similar groups into a political struggle. Mr. Dolejš and Mr. Ferjenčík's performance here only varies in general when we're talking about the taxes. We are part of the second part of the political spectrum, and with great pleasure today we will reduce taxes for citizens and working people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u125	Thank you. And I have an application here with the priority rights of Senator Nytra. Not at the moment, okay, then, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u126	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Members, if the tax package presented to us at the moment, and we have it in two options, it was really just about leaving people with more money, I will vote both hands for it. If it were for those two years, as we talked about it, I'd be up for it at that point. But it's not like that. It's something else. The problem is just somewhere else. This package really doesn't help people. Or maybe just some. Let's admit it, especially in the short term. The debate is about taxes. [[12.30 hours]] President Fiala quoted economist Friedman here about reducing taxes at any time. I, too, would like to quote an economist, Jan Mühlfeit. The one at one of the conferences I attended a long time ago said that taxes are almost the only and most efficient investment in the middle class. It is for all those skilled workers, craftsmen, teachers, health professionals, officials and all those who count in the middle class who live well if they live in what is called the European social model. If they are provided with health care, and today we are more aware of this than ever if their children can go to school without having to be saved for college tuition, whether they have security on the streets and a social system that will help them when they get into trouble, whether they lose their jobs or anything else will happen. Because otherwise, if it isn't like that, maybe a little something for them, the low-income ones in the hundreds, the high-income ones in the thousands, maybe tens of thousands, stay in one pocket, but the other, they're going to have to give out the thousands. They're gonna have to save money to pay the doctor, just remember what it looks like with dentists today so they can have kids to study and so on. I'd repeat what I've already basically said. Not to mention that there would have to be a reduction in social services, but also funding for science and research, environmental protection, and so on, the state would simply do everything that makes people's lives decent, whatever their income, whether they are doing better or less. The proposal for social democracy, in this case the parliamentary proposal by Jan Hamáček, was fair to the people, did not encourage an increase in inequalities, as is happening at the rate of 15 and 23. Most importantly, he was responsible for public budgets. The Senate's proposal is only partially dealt with. The previous speaker has already mentioned it. We've been accused of taking public money as our own. No, we really consider them public money, whether it's money in the state budget or in the regions and municipalities, and we are convinced as Social Democrats that this money is supposed to provide services to people, those services that people really need to feel safe, not only on the streets, but also from the point of view of what happens when they happen to have any problem in life in general, because they have access to public services and they know that society doesn't let people down because the state has a functioning and functioning social system. We talked about parental, infirmary, child allowance, support for people with disabilities, but also about pensions. Right says don't be afraid of privatizing and charging health and education. I would like to believe that these systems will keep everyone as accessible as they are today. But even if that were the case, we know that the times won't be easy, at least for the next two years. And what did the right hand do in the last crisis? Well, it basically increased the taxes, but it increased the taxes that had to be paid again to those with the low incomes and the middle class, i.e. VAT and excise duties. The increase in revenue, in order to reach a conclusion, has always sought and sought to increase people's income from social democracy and will strive, is still true, but in this way, as this package does, it simply cannot and does not work. I'm really, really sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u127	Thank you, and with priority rights, I suppose, Mr. Kalousek applied to me from his seat, if he's present, I'm afraid I don't see... And if he's not, and he's not heading for the microphone... I can see him now. There you go, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mrs Valachová. Favorite law. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u128	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that it is decided that there is a large majority here that is voting for the Senate version. Again, from my point of view, the Senate has failed in terms of budgetary responsibility. I just want to really ask you, because what you're going to do right now means we're all going to have to add to the interest that we're going to have to pay. Repeat. If there was a proposal on the table to reduce the state's mandatory revenues by 100 billion, and on the other hand, the balance sheet was to propose how the state's mandatory spending would be reduced by 100 billion, it would not be more enthusiastic to support such a proposal than I would, but it just isn't. Now you decide... [[He hit the counter with his palms.]] You're going to decide that it's going to go down by $100 billion per year, by law, and on the other hand, there's absolutely no savings. And with all due respect to the ODS proposals, well, I supported some of them, the paper can take anything, but colleagues, if you cut a few billion out of sickness insurance and at the same time you don't propose a change to the sickness insurance law, it's ridiculous! There's no savings. Unless the citizens give you permission and don't want to stand. But if we don't change the law, and at this point, we don't have the majority, you can't declare it a savings. It's just populism! For me personally, very human disappointment that the party on the right side of the political spectrum is committing such repulsive populism. [[12.40 hours]] So one more time. By 100 billion to cut taxes, by 100 billion to give people more money is the right way, assuming that we have the courage and strength to reduce the mandatorial spending on the spending side of the state budget. You don't have any of you! And none of you will have it even after the election! So those of you who raise your hand for this, you're just populists I can respect humanly, I can like them humanly, but I can't appreciate them in budgetary policy. Because what you want to approve right now is so desperately incompetent that no one, an individual, a family, a company, would act like that! This is how you, the populists, are the only ones who are able to handle the money from money that is not yours, and you have absolutely no responsibility for it. Each and every one of you, if it were your family, would do no such thing! He can't do it! Because he knows there's a bailiff somewhere in the distance. Well, if it's the public money, then why not? The election's in a year, so hopefully those people will vote for us for it. And when the bailiff arrives, someone else, preferably Kalousek, will be responsible. I'm telling you again, if you raise your hand for this, whether in the Senate or in the parliamentary version, you're committing a crime on our children and on our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u129	Thank you and now Mrs Valachová, duly signed up for the debate. Then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of Finance, we are facing a covido economic crisis caused by a global pandemic that cannot be avoided. The more this applies to our country, small and in the middle of Europe. We worry more and more about the health and lives of our loved ones. We need more than ever working, affordable and free health care. Our children again and again have to cope with demanding distance lessons due to covid, along with them naturally teachers and teachers whose professional and quality performance, efforts of 200 percent are needed so that COVID-19 never affect the quality of our children's teaching, to catch up on what they had to miss, and to be successful in education at school and in the future career in life. We need available, quality and free education. More than ever. Our seniors and seniors in these difficult times need more than ever the care given to them by their families by employees and employees in senior homes, in nonprofit organizations providing care in their homes, in municipalities and regions. Here too, we need a sufficient network of such social assistance in all municipalities, cities and regions. More than ever. Available quality and free health care, child education and social care for seniors, this is not about socialism. It's about the dignity of every person he has the right to, no matter how fat and rich his wallet is. During a time of crisis, it is proven not to make major changes in the tax field, especially in combination with a reduction in direct taxes. Likewise, previous economic crises have shown that the greatest threat is that the poor become poorer and richer. Economists warn of it with one voice. Four and a half million employees, yes, that's what's going on now. But what are they actually offered? You get money, more from the state, less from the state. But it is no longer said that your employer will not give you the same amount of money, even where he had previously announced an increase in wages. That kind of information comes from the field. Will you really have more, or will you still have the same? On the contrary, our country's income is clearly reduced. Free health care, education of children, social care for seniors, these are now provided by the state with regions and with municipalities. Even after so-called The municipalities and regions will be compensated by 20 percent less. How are we gonna figure this out? I didn't hear a plan. On the contrary, I hear from the regions that they have already cut their investments in schools for lack of money in participation, that they will not increase wages and they will refer employees to the fact that their income has already increased by reducing their tax. Last time, the Minister of Education arrived yesterday at a government press conference where he told teachers and teachers that the growth of 4% of their appreciation compared to 10% for nurses, doctors and social workers is enough because they will receive more money from January on lower taxes. Apparently, nurses and doctors get nothing in taxes in this logic. In summary, with so-called lower taxes, it's already getting smarter. In addition, employees get nothing at all. Either the employer will pay them less on their salary, or even more in the coming months and years they will pay on mortgage, because they will get more expensive, on food, and there will be inflation, and on health, education and social aid fees, because that is part of the equal tax. It's the other side of this fake coin that's not mentioned out loud. I note that these are not my personal feelings. This is information and expert evaluation, which has been reported in vain by macroeconomic experts for months. We will see, colleagues and colleagues, whether those who have put up the 15 percent tax will report to these effects. And it's public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u131	Thank you and Mr Grospič, Mr Grospic, will continue to be the last one in the debate at this time. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I did not originally want to be involved in this comprehensive debate on the tax package, because he is not only primarily about the question of wage, about the super gross wage, about the tax costs that will fall on employees, he is about a whole range of other taxes and tax measures, but nevertheless just one consideration leads me to this. There was talk here, and it was also in the government's programming statement that super gross wages would be abolished. The tax package that was introduced here, which was loaded with amendments and rescued by the Prime Minister's proposal, with all due respect, is not the abolition of the supergross wage that was once abolished in the years 2008 and subsequent, and was then due to expire and was extended in silence and is still running to this day. It's actually just a kind of obsession for most of the employees, most of the 4.5 people who are in employment, and there's a lot of talk here, and the right and other political groups, the center left, for example, are wedged in the idol of the middle class, the middle class. [[million]] It's also a big obsessive that I don't think is appropriate. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I'm supposed to report a conflict of interest here because I run one of the smaller trade unions. But I would like to point out that the average wage, for example. In 2015, it amounted to CZK 26,467. In the first half of this year it reached 34 271 crowns. But - and now it happens - what is the real average wage, and how many of those employees who are over four million will actually reach it? So who's making up the middle layer? If employees, especially in workers' professions, shop vendors, employees in ordinary services. Those who ensure the normal operation of society, clean up the streets, do the work that is socially necessary and necessary and should not be dehonested. Those who, and we are trying here, and are talking about it as a mantra off the left to the right, also about promoting crafts and traditional work in crafts, in apprentices, which in 30 years have been completely dehonestized - so if they reach an average wage there? And whether even a self-employed person in their income will actually achieve a profit that could equal this average wage in society and cover its costs. [[12.50 hours]] I think the numbers are talking, the statistical office, as measured by the Labour Office and Eurostat, about something completely, completely different. It turns out that the spread, which ranges from 65 to 70 percent of people in employment, but also self-employed, is over 800,000 who have this profession as their principal, is far from reaching the average income. And speaking of abolishing the supergross wage and replacing it, I'm sorry, in one proposal by 19 percent of Vice-President Hamáček, in one case 15 percent of the Prime Minister, it seems a bit like a mockery to these people. Yes, they get added a few tens of crowns, maybe hundreds of crowns, but to those who have the really high income, that means the average income of 34,000, which is a relatively very narrow group, they almost don't touch it, because they're actually going to increase the revenue considerably more. And the low-income group, the group, which is also around the median, which is also a very interesting indicator of the calculation of wages, and which says that the median is now moving on some 29,333 crowns, so it almost doesn't touch them, it almost doesn't touch the median anymore. And most employees have that income far, far lower. It's moving somewhere around 23, 24,000 and below. So, from my point of view, what's being presented here for canceling a super gross wage is just a theater that, if we were to defend as left or as trade unionists from the point of view of employees, it's totally unacceptable for us to be indefensible. And what we should defend from the average and from the point of view of the center-right parties, maybe even the center-left, so these are people who move but in completely different sectors of the economy, in banking, in computational technology, not in craft and labor professions, not among those salesmen, shoppers, not among those bus drivers, trams. Those are people who can just dream of that kind of income. Yes, when both of them work together, they put together an income that is sufficient to cover the necessary costs and save a little and allow their children to study and equipment. But if they want to buy something or come before an extraordinary expense of more than CZK 6,000, they already have a deep problem and they have to think strongly about it. And this tax package won't make it any easier for them. For me, the Senate proposal, even though it sounds a little bit more attractive in that deductible item, which is a little bit higher, makes a little bit more sense. The only sense I see still there is in the compensation to the authorities. Yes, it is. But as a whole, the tax package, whether in the form of the government that passed through the Chamber of Deputies, has no justification for the form that comes back from the Senate. And even since we have an approved state budget here today, and we are going to enter it with a tax package, and we are actually going to be pouring more money over this government. My personal position and opinion is that it is unacceptable or inappropriate to support it at present and at this time, and certainly not talk about disturbing, actually disturbing the super gross wage. He only disturbs her verbally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u133	Thank you. And now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna try this one last time. I know that in vain. But I want a clear conscience. That means I'll have two notes. Note number one, that the House... you call it a compromise, that is no compromise, because both the House proposal and the parliamentary proposal ignore the law on budgetary responsibility. So: the House's proposal is the result of the agreement of the ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL parties. It's not. It's not. Because if this were the result of this agreement, you would never have a motion on the table to repeal the Bill on Budgetary Responsibility. We would never agree to that. The design, as it lies on the table, and I consider it legitimate, is the design of ODS and YES. That's what they agreed to. It's an ODS and YES proposal, and everyone else is assisting in some way, with more or less resistance, but the key agreement is ODS and YES. And I think this is fair for people to know. The second thing is what you really want to approve today, right now, right now. Again, you approve a hundred-billion-dollar decline in mandatorial income every year! Without you imagining that I will no longer be running in any coalition after these elections, but no matter how these elections turn out, I will repeat it to you again, and I will bet you that none of you will have the courage to lower the mandatorial spending by 100 billion compared to a reduction in the mandatorial income by 100 billion. [[He speaks very strongly, urgently.]] And that's your absolute irresponsibleness! You don't give a damn! I very much ask all those who are able to see for the elections to the Chamber of Deputies next year not to approve this. Not only will this make life much more difficult for our children and grandchildren, but it will also complicate the possibility of governance. This is just so desperately incompetent that none of you could have done this if it had been for your family, your company! You're only able to do this because there's going to be an election next year and it's not your money. But if you raise your hand for it, I just can't appreciate it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. And here I have Mr Hájek's point of fact, if that is true in the debate. [[Disadvised response from the diaper.]] Yes. Please. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u136	Colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief. Mr Kalousek, I have listened carefully to you through the President. And just explain to me how it's possible that your party wants to go to that club together, which is already being called temporarily together. That means, if you don't appreciate the ODS, how is it possible that your party wants to go together temporarily with the ODS, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. Mr Kalousek will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u138	Thank you for the floor. It's not about the subject, but the answer deserves it, so I'll give you another answer. If you're going to do that thing now that you're going to reduce annual mandatory revenue by 100 billion, then you need to know that on the other hand, there is willingness, strength and courage to reduce the mandatorial expenditure by 100 billion. Only the ODS, KDU and TOP 09 coalition has the willingness, strength, courage and competence. Unfortunately, I'm convinced he won't have a majority, so it won't happen. I'm warning against it. But at least they're holding their own political line. You, Mr Hájek, through Mr President, are only the populist who is unable to oversee the election horizon next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u139	Well, thank you, that would perhaps exhaust the debate, in which, if no one else is reporting, I will... Mr. Cernohorsky. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u140	I still haven't gotten the answer from the secretary who's not listening to me right now. So how are you going to cut off the 100 billion crowns that we're actually not going to pick from people? Where are you going to save the 100 billion? So if it contained the ideal closing argument so I wouldn't have to react with priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. Okay. So, if no one else is going into the debate at this point, I am ending the debate and I am asking if there is any interest in the final words of the Senator. There's an interest in the final word. Please. Otherwise, I will inform the House that I have received the agreement that we will arrive at this point and then there will be a lunch break. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u142	Thank you, Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, Members. I'm having a little trouble keeping it structured after the discussion, but I'm gonna try. Just a few notes that were made here. The MP's proposal of the ČSSD was not fair, at 19 percent, because it did not deal with de facto tax increases for self-employed persons, contractors, etc. In the Chamber of Deputies. A problem has already been solved in the Senate, perhaps a problem related to the CFI. I don't know if the stock sales tax is 15 percent better than 23. I do not think that it is a good thing at all, since in the Czech Republic the withdrawal period is three years and not six months as in a large part of Europe. I also can't tell if the 80 billion impact on the revenue side of the budget is right, I'm sorry, wrong, but 40 billion doesn't matter. If I accept Mr Veselý's question that, after the adoption of the tax package, there was horror, then let us ask ourselves what situation the Senate was in when you say that he had done almost nothing and possibly failed. He could have rejected the tax package, which was a legitimate path, and quite a significant part of the senators supported it. But with unsecured support in the House, it would mean the House's version again, which means the one from which such horror took place. We could have played in the Senate with tax rates, and we would have been once again in the House with variant 1, that is, the House version, or we would have paid for it by the DEA, by the negotiators, but also for example by private landlords. They're not developers, they're those who inherited, for example, apartment buildings, or we convinced them that this way, by renting an apartment, they're saving up for old age. Sure, we could play with the tax rates and try to get them into the law, maybe we could, but not within 30 days, which the Senate has at its most available. And to say 80 percent on average, it's a bit of compensation for the regions and budgets, it really doesn't seem fair to me. Of course, the compensation is going to be moving, and there are different numbers flying through the air here, because the question is whether I only take it out of the impact of the two measures, that means reducing the supergross wage, or tax quotas, and basic deductible items, but whether I count or not the short-term measures, such as accelerated depreciation and the like. So the completely different impact will be in 2021, 2022, but then it will start coming back very quickly. And I don't care about the income issue at all. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by asking you to approve the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. Mr Kalousek has re-enlisted with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u144	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but how can I understand your language? You were explaining it to us that you only had two options. Either try to fix the incorrigible, or reject it and leave the completely insane and incompetent Chamber of Deputies to approve the parliamentary package. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in those votes of the Chamber of Deputies, as you have approved for us, the number of votes of your political party is absolutely decisive. You have forgotten one absolutely crucial option - explaining to the members of your political party that what you are trying to commit here will complicate any political representation - I repeat again, any - governance to such an extent that it simply cannot be held accountable. It's not true that you had a choice between lesser and worse evil. It was in your power to say no to that nonsense. You didn't, which is why your failure is exactly the same as the failure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry I told you so frankly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. I'll ask if the secretary is interested in the final word. It's not like that. Mr Cernohorsky with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u146	I was just asking here where to save the 100 billion crowns, and I was expecting the Minister to react in that final word, which is obviously to be interpreted as not being able to save the 100 billion. So at this point, we're going to borrow 100 billion each year for the future until a new government comes, which will have to either raise taxes at that point or change tax mix in some way, or start cutting big.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary, I'll take that as a final word. [[The minister nods.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u148	Thank you for your indulgence, Mr Vice-President. One sentence so it doesn't end with me not being able to answer. But, Mr. Ambassador, you know how it is. I've said it x-times here, just us, thanks to a very responsible budget policy, I can show you the charts again, the low debt, we're borrowing with minimum interest, and we're borrowing now. Nobody borrows, no citizen, no ammunition, no company as cheap as us. We put the money in the economy, we help the economy. Or do you want us to give her a transfusion on one side and let her bleed on the other side? You of all people who have constantly new and new ideas on how to burden the spending party? I don't think so. This is our recipe, this is our way. We now have an executive responsibility, and history will give us an answer whether it was right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u149	Thank you. Those were the final words. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. because we're going to vote. I will ask the club presidents to check the number of members present to see if they comply with the agreement and agreements, and we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I don't know if there was a request... Yes, I'm hearing an application for check-out, I don't know where it came from, but I checked you out. Please log in with your cards again. [[13.10 hours]] I will say that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. When the number of applications is settled, I will make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending certain laws in the field of taxation and certain other laws, according to House press 910/4, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 910/5." So we're voting on the Senate version. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 104 Members and Members in voting number 6 for 70, against 22. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. And if there are no requests for conversion, I note that we have adopted the bill in the version approved by the Senate, and that concludes the discussion of this point. Thank you to the senator, thank you to the Minister, and according to the agreement that has been delivered to me, we will continue today's meeting at the next point at 14.20 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-22-ps2017-078-01-001-001.u150	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. We'll continue the program. The next item is
