ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u1	4. Proposal of Members of Jiří Mašek, Jan Hamáček, Pavel Žáček, Zdeněk Ondráček, Jiří Kobza, Lukáš Kolářík, Jan Bartošek, František Vácha and others for the issue of the Act on Arms Management in some cases affecting internal order or security of the Czech Republic /house print 669/ - second reading I'll ask my colleague Jiří Mašek... [[Attention to change.]] So instead of him a Member of Zdeněk Ondráček to take up the position at the rapporteur's table. I thank Mrs Jana Černochová, who is rapporteur for this press and has already taken her place. Before I ask my colleague Ondráček for the opening word, I state the apology of Minister Tomáš Petříček from 14.30 to the end of the day. Let me remind you that we are discussing press 669 at second reading. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, has the floor now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, dear colleagues, we have submitted a proposal for a law on the handling of arms in some cases affecting internal order or security of the Czech Republic as a group of Members in cooperation with experts from the Ministry of the Interior. The proposal was designed to be compatible with the current Act No. 119/2002 Coll., and at the same time precedes the entire package of prepared weapons laws, the arms law, the ammunition law and the law on the amendment of laws. After the disappearance of the mandatory military presence service, the percentage of people who would be able and safely and effectively control the weapon if necessary fell significantly. The proposal therefore envisages the creation of exclusively voluntary shooting preparation of citizens of the Czech Republic who, after completing the shooting program, will form a specified advance of the state. On the basis of the commandment of the Chamber of Deputies, the Committee on Security as the Committee on Guarantee dealt with press number 669 at its meeting 24. 9th of this year. The Committee adopted a resolution, which is referred to as House Document 669/3, and adopted two amendments tabled by Mr Mašek - on Section 7 concerning the conditions for the acquisition of weapons and ammunition for programme graduates and on Section 25 concerning the entry into force of this law. The Security Committee approved the wording of the bill in the proposed text, including those amendments adopted after consultation. The Security Committee will deal with any further amendments read at its next meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, and I will ask the rapporteur. I still have to say before her word that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Security Committee as a committee of guarantee, and the committee resolution was delivered to you as House prints 669/2 and 3. Now, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, the Guarantee Committee on Security discussed the bill and issued 8. 7. 2020 The resolution delivered to Members as House Press 669/2, which suspended the hearing and set a deadline for the submission of amendments, asked the Interior Minister to submit draft implementing legislation. Subsequently, at its 41st meeting on 24 September 2020, the Security Guarantee Committee adopted Resolution 184 recommending to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that, with a proposal from Members of Jiří Mašek, Pavel Žáček, Zdeněk Ondráček, Jiří Kobza, Lukáš Kolářík, Jan Bartošek, František Vácha and others for the issue of the arms management law in some cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic, it is the House's press 669, which agreed in the wording of the proposed amendments, which I will briefly introduce and justify to you colleagues. I will do so now, because it is a comprehensive committee proposal, and then only in this detailed debate will I refer to it not to speak twice. The amendments to Section 7 of the draft arms management law in some cases affecting internal order and security should, on the one hand, clarify the meaning and content of the institute and the implementation of the system of shooting preparation and further better define the possibilities of material support for shooting preparation by the State. The existing text of Section 7 allows, in principle, only direct supply of weapons or ammunition to holders of aprobation in the system of shooting preparation. That's a really substantial donation from the state. This may be problematic especially in the case of ammunition, as arms holders use a wide range of ammunition shots and it would be extremely inefficient for the state to first acquire such a wide range of ammunition itself and then physically distribute it. At the same time, the acquisition of ammunition will probably be the main way of supporting the shooting preparation. The possibility of financial support for the acquisition of ammunition, both in relation to participation in the shooting preparation programme and in relation to the continued individual shooting preparation of holders of the highest level of protection in the shooting preparation system, appears to be significantly more effective. However, it will continue to be possible to grant aid also in the form of the provision of direct ammunition, for example in the case of surplus state stock stocks of such ammunition. Another proposal, the draft amendment of § 7, also allows holders of aprobation in the system of shooting preparation and use the state-owned - not expropriated but owned rifles, in the event of their capacity not being used by state forces. That means armed forces or armed and security forces. This proposal was discussed with the Ministry of Interior and with working groups, which the Ministry of Interior set up in early 2018. On the basis of the comments raised against the preliminary proposal for a regulation of the Government, it was also necessary to adapt the text of Section 7 of the draft law itself. Furthermore, the Security Committee proposes a change of effectiveness so that the law becomes effective on the 15th day following its publication. In fact, efficiency was originally proposed on 1 July 2021. [[A note from the diaper.]] 2020 of course, when we move it, so that it can have some legisvacancing. The Security Committee has commissioned its President to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and has empowered me, the rapporteur of the Security Committee, to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I have done with this. [[14.40 hours]] At the end of my speech, my fellow Members, let me thank you for your cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. It is not customary to mention specific officials here, but I will mention them because they are the names of people who have their name in the shooting community and are certainly very favorably rated by this community because they have actually done a great deal of work on this legislation. It's Mrs. Mgr Bačkovská and Mr Mgr Bartošek. So thank you to my colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior, thank you and the Minister, of course, thank you to my colleagues from the Security Committee and all those who worked in those working groups where we met and where we actually tuned our positions across the political spectrum so that today we could move the bill forward to the next reading and recommend it to the Security Committee so that, ideally, at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we could approve this proposal. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Jana Černochová, for her intelligence report. I open a general debate at second reading and have three applications for it. The first is Mr Radek Koten, and Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u6	Hello, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. By its resolution at the end of 2017, the Government imposed on the Ministry of the Interior a proposal for a comprehensive recodification of arms and ammunition legislation. In the end, the Ministry fulfilled the task by drawing up completely new four bills, namely the Act on Weapons, the Ammo, the Amendment Act and the Act on Arms Management, but this proposal was so long that it is more known as the Superstructure Act. The reason for the preparation of the proposal for that superstructure law was the generally deteriorating security situation in the world and in Europe as a result of the change in its demographic structure, the western part of it therefore separately. In the Czech Republic, it is still complicated by the aging generation, which, at least from the male part, was able to control the weapon as a basic skill acquired during the completion of the basic military service. Although the legislation in force, for example Act No. 110/1998 Coll., in Article 3 (1) (a) 2, it also allows the natural person to be saved to participate in the security of the Czech Republic, but without having the necessary skills, such a provision is not necessary for the Czech Republic. It is precisely for this reason that it was proposed that this law be created on a purely voluntary basis by a system of shooting preparation, where citizens could acquire the necessary skills available for possible performance of tasks, in ensuring the safety of the Czech Republic and, of course, the safety of their own and their loved ones. The draft of this law was successfully passed by inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and, at the end of 2019, the operation of both the Czech Government and the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, i.e. without the coronavirus crisis, was clear that the whole package of weapons laws prepared by the Ministry of the Interior will be discussed by the end of the election period. That is why MEPs across the political spectrum, knowing the importance of the proposal for security of the Czech Republic, have revised the original proposal of the Ministry of Interior, especially as regards terminology, so as to correspond with the current Act on Weapons, i.e. Act No. 119/2002 Coll. They therefore presented it in the form of a press of 669 as their parliamentary proposal. The proposal was to go through the first reading already in January, but unfortunately this did not happen for the absence of the Minister. And it did not happen in February for certain legislative indispositions here in the House. Then came the virus and the first reading took place only in June when the proposal was ordered to discuss the Security Committee. Before discussing the text of the bill by the Committee on Security, this committee asked the Ministry of the Interior to process the draft implementing legislation, i.e. the Government's regulation, so that Members would be able to make a picture of the real functioning of the upcoming shooting preparation system. [[si]] The relevant proposal of the Ministry of the Interior has been processed and forwarded to Members. It follows from the proposal from the implementing regulation that the practical operation of the shooting training system will not be a formality, but will guarantee the actual professional qualifications of graduates, both in practical terms and in theoretical terms. Importantly, it will also include an educational segment in the area of conflict escalation so as to minimise possible use of weapons. As part of the preparatory consultation on the text of the proposal, there was a lack of clarity on the importance of obtaining the right to dispose of weapons in which the graduate was trained. In Section 7 of the proposal, this deficiency was removed by Mr Jiří Mašek with his amendment. The same Member treated the amendment as well as the situation in which the law could not enter into force until 2021. The text of the proposal, as amended by Mr Mašek's amendments, does not show defects which could hinder his successful discussion by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, including so many times the rehabilitated version of Section 3, the ban on the creation of armed groups that would like to carry arms, virtually. with their use, fulfilling their political or religious or similar objectives. The fact that we cannot allow any armed political combatants or religious police of Sharia in our country should be understood by all. And they should understand that despite deliberate disintegration using various manipulations of the interpretations of this provision of the proposal. I cannot shake the conviction that puppeteers of those who manipulate the public and cause rest in relation to the provisions of Section 3, and puppeteers of those who impose their powerful elements to label the SPD as an extremist party are one and the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u7	So thank you, Mr Radek Koten. Mr Lubomír Volný will speak, Jiří Kobza will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. This law, in its opening part, is struggling with a non-existent enemy and, on the contrary, completely disappears from the really existing security threats. The real and only purpose of its opening part is once again to deny citizens another right that they have for the time being. Although the right to a minimum, or maybe even practically not fully used, but a really existing right and a real possibility of legally associating with armed groups that dispose legally of legally held weapons in accordance with the law of this country. Apparently, there are a large number of legally armed paramilitary groups whose members, legal holders of legal weapons, pose such a grandiose security risk that they require a special law of lex militia. However, groups that no one has actually noticed and which do not commit any crimes or offences, at least certainly not those that would in any way move public opinion. In this first part, this law only implants further information into citizens' awareness that the already oversized state does not want their association on self-defense issues and that they are not to prepare for their own active self-defense, and God forbid they are prepared to help and support each other in this self-defense. And that is, of course, wrong, because already today, civil apathy and unwillingness to help each other in cases of personal harassment, or directly physical assault, are alarming. People are already afraid to help themselves, they know that legislation is already set up today so that it can be them, and not the aggressor, who will be punished more at the end of the case, and you are trying to implant another fear into their awareness. I am concerned that they must not associate for their self-defense even in cases where they are legally armed and do not violate any laws or regulations on the handling of their private, legally owned weapons. [[14.50 hours]] The purpose of this law is supposed to be - I quote from the explanatory report - "to make it impossible for paramilitary groups operating outside the relevant security system of the Czech Republic to arm themselves and seek to pursue their ideological goals with weapons. The activities of such groups are incompatible with the democratic nature of the Czech Republic as a rule of law." This is a great truth, but this is already being dealt with by a number of laws and regulations. And that's why I'm going to ask, "Who are these paramilitarian groups today?" How many do we have? How many members do they have? I know only three such groups that actually exist in our country operate with us - I would ask colleagues here at the table for peace, thank you - and they are going to actively destroy property and physically invade, even directly murder their ideas and political opponents. And in its introduction, as it is written, this law will not catch up. One is Czech Muslim terrorists, the other is fascinating Antifa and the other is our eco-terrorists. But against the activities of these fascist and terrorist groups, the proposed law is completely toothless and none of these groups will stop planning and committing their violent crime. Here again, it appears that this law is redundant in its introduction and will not increase the security of this country in any way. The real impact of this provision will be only one thing - it will intimidate honest citizens, honest holders of arms certificates who act with their legal weapons in accordance with the legislation of this country, who will fear to bring together into groups that will be willing to enforce their legitimate civil rights, such as the right to bring together, the right to self-defense and mutual assistance, including through their weapons, and using legal and legitimate violence, and through legitimate and legitimate arms. This may be surprising for some of you, but at present the legal order of the Czech Republic also allows citizens of the Czech Republic to use violence to achieve their goals. It even allows the use of firearms to achieve its objectives, legitimate and legal, such as self-defense. I have a few questions for the Home Secretary. How many paramilitary groups are there in the Czech Republic to date? Who are we talking about here? How many members do they have? And how many of these members of these paramilitary groups have still been convicted under legislation already in force on the basis of illegal arms and arms management, contrary to the regulations in force? Thank you in advance for any answers. I assume answer zero, zero, zero. Thus, there is no paramilitarian group of citizens gathered in the Czech Republic for the purpose of collective self-defense, whose legally armed members would be convicted under applicable legislation for illegal possession of weapons or for the handling of arms in violation of legislation. I repeat that the only known groups of residents in the Czech Republic currently pose a security threat, violate or plan to violate the rule of law using violence and using weapons against people and property are our already mentioned Muslim terrorists, whose numbers are rising sharply, the fascists of Antifa and eco-terrorists. I repeat, neither of these groups will act in its opening provision, as it is written, in any way touch and in no way strengthen the state apparatus in preventive safety measures. What is humanly and politically uncomfortable for me is also the striking consensus across the spectrum in this restriction of personal freedoms. And this is where I aim particularly at my colleagues at the right hand, who should defend as little as possible the state and as many civil liberties as possible. It's not surprising, it's terrifying for me. It's not a law that we give citizens something. A law where such a match is positive. We don't raise pensions here, we don't give money to people who've had a covid crisis. It is a law that is once again regulated and citizens are once again restricted. The KDU-ČSL brothers and sisters agree with KDU-ČSL comrades from KSČM, Antifu supporting Pirates with SPD, right-wing ODS with left-wing ČSSD, YES with STAN and all together with TOP 09. All the MPs agree that they want further regulation of civil liberties and their restrictions, and that is at least suspicious to me. This law does not reflect the real threats that we face today and which result from the association of people who are now actively planning violent crime to terrorize society and the real physical assault, maiming and murdering our country's citizens. On the contrary, we are once again intimidating citizens so that they are afraid to actively defend themselves. It does not reflect the rapidly growing number of our domestic Muslim terrorists, nor does it reflect the latest international experience of terror by undemocratic, racist and fascist groups such as Black Lives Matter, Antifa or Extinction Rebellion, who, even in this country today, are developing their activities and publicly professing violence as a means of achieving their ideological and political goals. It is precisely these threats that our amendment or our amendments, which we have drawn up together with fellow Member Ivana Nevludová and Marian Bojek, is heading towards. The first point is our Amendment 6218, which changes the controversial, very general and abusive rubber definition of what an armed group is. It brings this definition into line with what is the declared objective of the law according to the explanatory memorandum. I will read it again: The declared objective of the law according to the explanatory report is to prevent paramilitary groups operating outside the relevant security system of the Czech Republic from arming themselves and seeking to pursue their ideological goals with weapons. The activities of such groups are incompatible with the democratic nature of the Czech Republic as a rule of law. - I fully agree with this reasoning from the explanatory memorandum cited on this law. However, I argue that there is simply none of this justification in the bill itself, and that is why we have proposed these amendments, which, on the contrary, are in full agreement with the text cited. The proposed adjustments are these. The provisions of Section 1 are amended and read: This law provides for the prohibition of unregistered armed groups armed with arms in violation of other legislation. Prohibition of groups promoting ideology proclaiming willingness to use violence as a means of achieving goals that are contrary to the legal order of the Czech Republic. - We're heading straight for Antifa, here we're headed straight for Sharia patrol, here we're heading straight for everyone who wants to violate the democratic principles and the rule of law of this country. The C remains the same, a measure that the government can lay down in relation to the conditions for the handling of weapons in cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic. Based on the experience of the last days, and in particular what is happening in the streets of Western Europe and especially the United States, we have also modified the provisions of Section 2, which are understood under weapons. The first points remain - firearms, ammunition, explosives, pyrotechnics. We're adding stabs, chops, blunts and throwing weapons. Based on recent events, especially from the United States, we can say that a very murderous and popular weapon of terrorists from Antifa is an ordinary skateboard. He was beaten with hundreds of people, maimed with dozens and several people - despite the stupid laughs of a pirate colleague through the President - he was also murdered by simple skateboard strikes. Sound-deaf generators. Perhaps you who do not follow these events as closely as I do, do not know this, but in the United States and in Europe, there are people who have been maimed by deafening sound generators, which means portable ship sirens or powerful whistles. You can probably imagine what it will do to your hearing system when someone next to you triggers a portable ship's siren with 250 decibels. You'll be crippled for life, for the rest of your life. [[15.00 hours]] The last point we're adding is dazzling and blinding light sources. Antifa terrorists, Black Lives Matter racists use stroboscopic light sources in the United States to attack selected targets. First he blinds his victim, then he maims her or murders her. What they also use are powerful industrial lasers. Such an industrial laser, when it looks into your eyes, which is also documented many times and repeatedly from those recent conflicts in the United States, will irreversibly damage your visual system. It's as dangerous a weapon as any other weapon that can cripple you for the rest of your life. I will read the reasoning as set out in the amendment: Although the stated aim of the bill is to create tools to sanction groups aiming at their activities against the rule of law of the Czech Republic, the text - I will also ask my colleagues for it in a row, thank you - the text of the proposed proposal ignores some important aspects of the issue. [[responds to a call in the government bench]] It should first be noted that if the intention of the petitioners is to affect all such groups, then it is necessary to define them in two planes, namely the plane of the group armed and the plane of the group ideological. This is the only way to respond effectively to the emergence and existence of groups operating on the principle of circumvention, which are directed against fundamental democratic principles and principles of the rule of law. This concept is then adapted to the proposed text of Section 1, the content of which is a specific ban on unregistered armed groups and groups promoting ideologies declaring their willingness to use violence against the rule of law of the Czech Republic. The proposed text of Section 3 reflects the definition of groups in accordance with Section 1 and provides for a clear ban on such groups. In view of the principles of administrative proceedings, the proposer proposes to waive the cumulativeity of the parameters of armed groups, as presented by the appellant, when the condition thus laid down would in fact make it impossible to sanction a wide range of dangerous groups. The definition and direction of these groups against the legal order of the Czech Republic should be considered essential. The amendments proposed in Sections 5 and 21 are thus monitored for the preservation of terminology understandable to the normal person. For the amendments proposed in Section 18, the following sections are added in relation to the proposed amendments to Sections 1 and 3 to those provisions. Our next amendment, under number 6348, amends the provisions of Section 1 and, overall, releases the ban on armed groups and further regulates the list of weapons as well as the previous proposal. I'll read a brief statement of reasons. Although the name of the proposed law is the Act on the handling of arms in some cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic, the text submitted by § 1 letter. (a) and Section 3 is aimed at the vaguely defined groups of persons, where it can be considered that the text chosen does not reflect the fact that the groups' sanctions are already resolved in the current legislation. In the case of the groups existing under the Civil Code, the legislature defined the provisions of Section 145 in a very specific way which contradict the legal order of the Czech Republic and, following these, gave the courts relatively wide scope for the abolition of such a grouping. The standards of criminal law and criminal law also allow the infringement of the groups and individuals against whom this bill is directed. From this point of view, the proposed text then appears to be completely redundant. On the contrary, the proposed text may create a situation in which, because of the uncertainty of the provisions in which amendments are proposed or their deletion, the regulation will serve to initiate proceedings on the basis of unfounded assumptions or suspicions that such proceedings may then serve to bully legitimate formal and informal groups of persons. In the case of the provisions of Section 2, it is quite appropriate to supplement the definition of weapons under the proposed Act also on a group of weapons which do not fall within the category of firearms, explosives or pyrotechnics, although the group - as seen from everyday shots from both Western Europe and the United States - may pose a significant safety risk to other objects. The amendments proposed in Sections 5 and 21, newly designated as Sections 4 and 20, are thus monitored for the preservation of terminology understandable to the normal person. In the case of the amendment proposed in Section 18, newly referred to as § 17, in relation to the proposed amendments, § 1 and § 3, parts of these provisions are deleted following. I would like to thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, I would like to call on my colleagues, particularly in the right part of the political spectrum, who consider themselves advocates of traditional conservative values, where natural human freedom belongs, to study these proposals honestly, not to burden our rule of law, and not to burden our citizens with other laws, which will only trigger feelings of fear and fear of breaking a law or standard. Because we're not talking about people who are illegally armed. We're talking about the people this state trusted and gave them a gun license. We're talking about people who have fulfilled all the conditions to carry a gun with them. We're talking about people who don't break any weapons regulations. But for these people who are honest and fulfill everything to the letter, this provision of the law is aimed at. They're not heading in the direction that's been declared here at all. The activities of groups that will be directed against the rule of law, against freedom, the activities of groups that are willing and already willing in the past to be willing and willing to use violence, willing to destroy property, willing to cause great damage to our economy, willing to maim and murder people, so the activities of these groups will not touch even a little bit. So I am begging you for an honest study of these amendments and their possible support. I am still going to sign up to these provisions or to these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u9	I am grateful to Mr Lubomír Volný, and the next one entered in the debate is Mr Jiří Kobza. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, I will try to be brief and factual. I would like to present to you the amendment that was introduced into the system on 4 March under number 4481. This proposal was prepared on the basis of comments from the armed public, on the basis of discussions with the shooters and processed in close cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, with workers who have already been appointed here by Mrs Černochová, who have stood up very factually and very constructively on the issues that I have interpreted to them, which have just raised these confederated associations or associations that are engaged in defence activities or what we can consider to be a defence activity. It was above all that, in their opinion and their lawyers' opinion, some wordings allowed more interpretations, and therefore the proposal does not substantially change the meaning of the Armament Act, which, I must confess, I consider to be very necessary and necessary, because at some point it gives the Ministry of the Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic the possibility of a huge staffing boost to cover some shocking emergency conditions, as the pandemic has shown for example. in the first wave, when it was necessary to close some areas and the police really had their hands full with it. So I am also grateful for the law because it gives citizens the opportunity to cooperate with state power in ensuring internal security. It is the Ministry of the Interior, which, unlike the army, has an internal structure, has a regional structure actually throughout the Republic, which means it has the possibility of immediate contact with the Czech Police with local groups of gunners or defence associations, when something needs to be done. [[15.10 hours]] So I would read the bill amendment proposal, which, as I said, was processed in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and on the basis of the comments that came to us after the discussion actually took place on the proposal, which was to be discussed in January. In some cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic, paragraph 3 is added to Section 3, including a footnote: The armed group referred to in paragraph 2 is not a group of persons who proceed in accordance with another law or whose aim is sports shooting, gate preparation, reconstruction of historical battles, hunting or similar interest activity. The footnote is paragraph 1, in particular Article 23 of the resolution of the Bureau of the Czech National Council No. 2/1993 Coll., on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic. Two. In part of the first arms management law, in some cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic, a new §18 is inserted after Section 17, which reads: Paragraph 1. The Ministry of the Interior shall, upon request, register the association bringing together the persons referred to in § 6 para. 2 to the Central Register of Weapons as an organisation of the state advance provided that the objectives of such association are to contribute to ensuring the internal order or security of the Czech Republic or defence of the Czech Republic and that such association is able to fulfil the tasks of the organisation of the established reserve of the state. Paragraph 2. The organisation of the state's advance can be used for the performance of tasks in ensuring internal order or security of the Czech Republic or defence of the Czech Republic under conditions laid down by the Government under a regulation issued pursuant to § 17 or other legislation. Paragraph 3. The Government shall, by regulation, determine the content of the application in accordance with the first sentence and the principles of the organisation's activity as defined in the advance of the State, in particular the method of coordination of their activities and the preparation of the performance of their tasks with the components of the integrated rescue system. The following paragraphs are numbered. Three. In the first part of the arms management in some cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic, in the present section 19 of paragraph 1 of the letter. (a) 'Section 18' is replaced by 'Section 19'. That's all. I consider this amendment to be an important moment in our communication with the public and should clarify what it means by armed groups, what it means by legal associations, what it means to strengthen the internal security of the state or to defend the state. And I beg you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u11	I thank Mr Jiří Kobza and ask who else to debate, because I have no other written application. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. Mr. Speaker? He's interested. The rapporteur? You have your word, sir...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u12	In short, I will only allow myself to respond to the amendments, or to the things that have been mentioned. I can certainly invite both the petitioners - I assume that the Chairman of the Security Committee will look at me - to the nearest meeting where your amendments, because you are not members of the Security Committee, will be dealt with, which will be agreed under the agreement 22. 10. 2020 means Tuesday before the beginning of the Chamber of Deputies in that week from 8.30 pm. That is our agreement with the Chairman and Vice-Presidents of the Security Committee. So I would like to invite you, too, to bring your amendments before the committee again and to defend them. As regards what the fellow Member of Volný has mentioned. You see, my colleague, we don't have the paramilitary groups here yet. And let's be happy for that. I think we should all be happy. The purpose of the law is not just to solve problems that are already here. Laws should also be designed to prevent problems that may happen here, which means preventing problems that might occur. Because if we're always dealing with the problem that's here, then we're always going to the others, and we're there... that means we're reacting. That's how we react when new psychotropic substances come in, we get new ones, we get a new disease that's on the list, and we have to include it. [[unintelligible]] But we don't have to change them by law, they change by government regulations. This is the law. And by creating there, and I'm glad that it was across the entire political spectrum, those changes in Section 3, that means the paramilitary groups, and we changed the terminology that the government bill originally had, so we defined the paramilitary groups exactly, and that's why there's the cumulation of the three terms. And we know that some of these groups are fulfilling condition one, maybe they're fulfilling condition two, but they're no longer fulfilling condition three. And that's what the cumulation is all about. That means all three must be fulfilled at the same time. If they're not fulfilled, we can't talk about being a group. And then we have, of course, every such organization, if we were to talk about a registered association, is registered, and we have the possibility to do so through the Ministry of the Interior, or ask the court to investigate or disband such an organization. So prevent. That's what you're actually trying to do with the next proposal. You're talking about the problems in the United States. You mentioned skateboards, lasers, of course, the other things. But we don't have anything like that yet. And you see, you already want to get something into the law to prevent what's going on abroad. I, of course, will study your proposals as you asked us to, and we will certainly deal with them seriously in cooperation with experts from the Ministry of the Interior, and therefore on behalf of our group of petitioners, but also on behalf of the committee chair, I invite you to the meeting that will be held, and we will seriously discuss it. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u13	Thank you. rapporteur. [[Unintelligible]] Mr Volný cannot be given a factual point because we are outside the debate and, of course, that entered into the debate in a detailed debate can certainly respond in this debate. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm just very brief. All representatives of all political parties, entities, movements who were elected in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2017 sat at the round table over this proposal. So here we really have a proposal that enjoys the rare agreement of the experts of these parties, the movement, the entities that have agreed on this procedure, and that is why I, as rapporteur of this proposal, am opposed to any further regulation that any of us here would like to make. It's exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u15	Thank you. Those were the final words of both the petitioners' representative and the rapporteur's final words. During the general debate, there was no proposal to return the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, and we can therefore start the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. The first member is MP Lubomír Volný, so he gets the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna take the liberty of reacting briefly. I'm glad we have such an effort to adopt preventive laws here, that's perfectly fine. In that case, I regret that the Security Committee does not accept similar bills to the already existing threats that we have in the Czech Republic and which are evident, but we accept something preventive. That's nice, but I still miss the fact that those paramilitary groups should be directed against the rule of law of this country and move to some illegal base, but it really only points at people who are legal arms holders who use weapons in accordance with other regulations and do not point at anyone else at all. It's just not in the wording you designed, it's just not there at all. And towards the colleague through the President. You can repel, you can disagree, but that's also all you can do. But this law is another restriction. This law, or its defining part of the first one that we're talking about here, is another regulation and is another restriction on civil rights, and this, perhaps, is something that is intriguing to me personally about your party's approach. Now I would just like to sign up on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues Ivanka Nevludová and Marian Bojek on the amendments that are set up in the system under the number 6218 and 6348. I gave the reasons in the general debate, so thank you and goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u17	Thank you for the detailed debate. And now, Mr Jiří Kobza, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u18	Thank you, Mr President. On the one hand, I would like to thank you for inviting me to the Security Committee, which I would very much like to attend, because the negotiations that we had within the preparatory group of this law and which were really involved in the entire political spectrum of the House were very constructive and factual, so I assume that this will be held in the same spirit. So I want to sign up for an amendment that was introduced into the system under number 4481. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-002-004.u19	I thank Mr Jiří Kobza and ask who else to discuss this law in detail. If no one reports, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask if there is interest after a detailed debate on the final words. It's not like that. There is nothing to vote on, either, because there was no proposal in the detailed debate that we could vote on, which is why I can end the second reading of this proposal. We'll continue with point five. I will ask Mrs Jana Černochová to stay at the rapporteur's table because she is both rapporteur and press 92, because point 5 is
