ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u1	391. Proposal for a Law on the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the 2020 epidemic and amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended /German press 875/2/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 875/3, and information on the amendments is distributed in our mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us, and I ask that Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Members, first of all, let me remind you that the bill in question regulates the remission or remission of social security premiums for three months for employers who are expected to deal with the consequences of the epidemic, i.e. employers employing not more than 50 employees. The number of employees was discussed in the Government and in the Chamber of Deputies and finally 50 employees were approved as a maximum number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the Minister can present us with an opinion on the Senate proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u4	The financial implications were also substantial, as the waiver of insurance premiums under a bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies will have a considerable impact on the state budget of 13.5 billion. Crowns. However, the law will apply to 88 percent of employers employed in the wage sector of 1.4 million in the government or the House version. staff. The proposal is designed intentionally so that it is easy to apply from an administrative point of view, both by employers and social security authorities. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] In the Senate, the intention to help employers through remission, the waiver of insurance premiums was accepted, but individual parameters were discussed and the amendment was finally adopted, on which I would like to comment in more detail. I would like to start by saying that I do not support this amendment, for both factual and legal reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u5	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but from the left side of the hall, and this time I'm going to identify the side of the hall, there's a huge noise that keeps us from hearing what the secretary is saying. Please, colleagues and colleagues, keep your voice down. Thank you. Madam Secretary, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u6	First of all, this is a question of a decisive number of employees, where a threefold increase in this number of employees from 50 to 150 will have a significant impact on the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to discuss this proposal in the light of the noise which is on the left side of this hall. I beg you once again to keep your voice down and allow further discussions. Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u8	Thank you, Mr President. This means that the Senate proposal would increase the state budget spending by 12 billion. 25,5 billion. crowns, which is already disproportionate. I therefore continue to consider the number of 50 employees as an optimal criterion. Nor do I support the reduction of the wage criterion in each calendar month compared to March 2020 to 80 per cent. The intention of this proposal is to help maintain the wage level, and I therefore consider the 90 per cent criterion to be appropriate, since it is carried out as the starting month in which the effect of the Coronavirus has already been demonstrated compared to March of this year. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I would like to take a closer look at the legal shortcomings of the Senate proposal resulting from the subsequent detailed analysis. In the draft law approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the decisive number of employees was determined as the number of natural employees on the last day of the relevant calendar month, which is very simple and administratively undemanding. However, the Senate has accepted the amendment in order to determine the relevant number of employees as the calculated number established under the implementing legislation. In addition to the fact that the calculated number of employees is always more complex, there is no adjustment as to how this calculated number is to be established, since there is no modification of this conversion in the proposed law and there is no authorisation to issue the implementing regulation. Apparently, it was intended to follow the implementing decree for another law, i.e. The employment law, however, can only be seen from reference to a footnote which is not legally binding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u9	Madam Secretary, you're right. You can't really continue this atmosphere. And I don't want to appoint individual Members, I could appoint individual clubs and please the club presidents to set things straight in this. Especially on the part of government clubs, there's so much unrest here that the Minister doesn't really want to go on. Please lower your voice, please respect. Please, Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Furthermore, it is essential that the regulation in this decree concerns the annual and quarterly conversion, whereas under the proposed Senate Act it is intended to be a monthly conversion, designed in addition with derogations which the implementing decree does not count on. Therefore, from a legal and factual point of view, this amendment proposed by the Senate is clearly not legally feasible. In addition, the assessment of the loss of the number of employees converted into average converted numbers would allow the employer to release more employees in physical numbers, which does not correspond, and I stress again, the intention of the proposed law, which is, among other things, the maximum possible elimination of negative effects on employment and wage levels. However, serious legal problems are also unclear and inaccurate for other proposed changes. For example, it is not clear how the determination of the relevant number of employees should be carried out in the exclusion of employees whose employment is terminated for the reasons set out in Section 52 (b). (a) to (c) the Labour Code, as it is not clear what calendar month it is and when the employment was to end. The problem is likely - or will also be the exclusion of the assessment bases of employees who are entitled to benefit from sickness insurance or parental allowance in a given calendar month, i.e. in June to August of this year, from the total staff basis for March 2020. In addition to the need to adapt the adjusted assessment base, it will be necessary to reconstruct the newly for comparison to June in March, then to July and again to August 2020, although it has already been laid down and the insurance has been paid, there is no source of information available for employers on entitlement to parental allowance, since no obligation to communicate this information to the employer is based. [[15.40 hours]] I would like to give an example of how the Senate proposal should be accepted in this exclusion. If entitlement to sick workers arose in June, the employer's additional assessment base for March shall be reduced by the staff member's assessment base. If another employee is entitled to an infirmary in July, the employer's assessment base for March shall be adjusted by excluding from it the assessment base of the employee who was entitled to an infirmary in July, but the assessment base of the employee who was entitled to a sick leave in June, shall be included back in the assessment base for March, as the conditions shall be assessed separately for each month and, according to the Senate version, only the assessment base of the employee who was entitled to a benefit in that month, not in the previous month. It's very complicated. I think it's very clear from this. Thus, the employer will constantly recalculate the basis for the assessment for March, which is the starting point for comparing the level of the basis for the month of June to August. It follows that the changes proposed by the Senate are not correctly formulated because the proposed adjustment is unclear and, for some changes, illogical, the calculated number of employees is completely inadequate. Overall, administrative demands in the implementation of the law will increase considerably for all entities and will make it more difficult for employers to exercise their right to waiver of insurance premiums. I would really stress that one more time. Numerous litigations can also be the consequence of the confusion of the regulation. The Senate version also means - I repeat this once again - a major increase in the impact on the state budget. For this reason, honourable Members, I would like to ask you and therefore propose to the Chamber of Deputies that the bill be approved in its original version, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u11	Thank you, Minister. And I ask Senator Tomáš Golán to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, fellow legislators, there is a situation where I beg you to listen to me. Because by adopting an amendment to Senate Press 272 of your press 868, as referred to by the Senate, which was also recommended by the Minister of Health, we excluded pharmacists from all aid. I would not be able to tell you how to vote, but please let us think about this, that the small pharmacies that keep the window of delivery in the villages and in some way the availability of health care gets to those most needy who cannot travel or are, let's say, otherwise handicapped, those are the ones that were thought of by the proposal that we submitted to the Senate, and by voting about the first law that I was rapporteur, we ruled them out. I would like to say to what the Minister here said that the law passed through the legislative department of the Senate, which, you know, is very strict, and found no shortcomings in our legislative department. The law removes - maybe it will be a little bit more complicated, but it removes any injustice, because if we count to the absolute number of employees in the amount of tenths, halfs - you know for a long time we have called for employers to employ people on short-time jobs, mothers on maternity leave, so that they can work on short-time jobs - they count as one employee. And as the secretary here said, the line since the claim or not is on the number of employees. And if I'm counting on a short-timer and I have two part-timers, they're putting together one-timer, half-timer plus half-timer is one-timer, and these guys would count two. A worse situation would arise in companies that have ten-year jobs, when ten employees, with one-tenth of the time, are counted according to the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for ten people, but it is one person. I could go on like this, but I would like to remind myself of a press release that was actually issued by employers' associations, which say that the Senate version eliminates serious shortcomings in the proposal to waive social security contributions. This proposal is signed by Ing. Tomáš Hajdušek, Head of the Tax and Charges Department. It is signed by RNDr. Ladislav Minčič, Vice-President of the Economic Policy Section of the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic. Tomáš Prouza - President of the Association of Trade and Tourism of the Czech Republic is signed under it. It's signed by . Pavla Břečková - Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. It is signed by Jan Wiesner - President of the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions of the Czech Republic. And I think that these authorities are showing that it will not be more difficult for them, as the plaintiff here said, but that they exactly want the more precise proposal. Because the bill proposal, the way it came from the Chamber of Deputies - not enough time for everything, I understand - was imperfect and founded a great legal uncertainty both in the redundancies and in the conversion. It is actually the way it is conceived, and the condition for this insurance to be forgiven is that the employer must not release more than ten percent of the employees, but it was easy to forget that the employees can leave on their own and that they can retire, that is, for legal reasons. And now if we imagine a company that has nine employees, and one employee retires, that one employee is already 11.11 percent. That means a company like this without the businessman's intervention, without the employer's will, will be excluded from the waiver because someone has just retired regularly. And that's why the business unions stood up for the Senate proposal. I beg you, for the sake of the pharmacists, for the will of the business unions, which would put pressure on the amendment of the law anyway, to support the law as the Senate has passed it with its amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u13	Thank you, Senator. I will also ask Mr Bauer, who was rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, whether he wishes to speak to the Senate resolution. It's not like that. So I'm opening up a debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? Yes, Mr. Ferjenčík is reporting from the post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that those companies that are excluded from this programme for some of the most absurd reasons, such as the fact that they have retired, will certainly be able to deal with the extra paperwork. And so are those companies that are at the limit of 55 employees, so the fact that they will be able to participate in the program is incomparably more important to them than if the form is more complex. Here, I would ask the Minister to devote herself to the real nature of the measure. The main argument against this enlargement, against increasing those limits, is that it would cost too much money. We're here to negotiate an increase in state budget spending of 137 billion. Crowns. There's still 37 billion left. CZK in reserve. And in my opinion, it is these - I do not know if it was 10 billion, which, by the way, are under the heading of support for entrepreneurs, which does not yet have an accurate determination in the current proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which was operated by Prime Minister Babiš at the press conference, that these funds could be used for this measure and would really make sense. Today's 90 percent limit is so low, it's coming out of a whole series of companies that have been hit hard by the crisis. It is those who have been hit so hard that they have no choice but to release someone, and now with the rest of the employees trying to keep the operation above zero, they are getting no support whatsoever, while companies that have been hit significantly less receive support. This principle is already unfair in itself. And the Senate's proposal is trying to alleviate him in some way. For this reason and also because of the support of the pharmacists, which is a problem that will be discussed in more detail by colleague Třešňák, who, by the way, was agreed in the House that the question should be addressed, and unfortunately, we have crossed it out of the previous law in good faith, with the fact that it will be possible to adopt a legislatively better solution under this law, as proposed by the Senate, so that is another argument therefore to approve the Senate version. [[15.50 hours]] I just think the means are real here. It's fair, it supports employment, and no owner is gonna get their hands on it, there's no abuse of this support. I really think that this Senate proposal is better, and I believe that the companies will deal with the administrative pitfalls, and I believe that the Ministry will give them a helping hand in this, or the government will do a micro-novel in a legislative emergency, if absolutely necessary. I'm sure the Senate would pass very smoothly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u15	Thank you. I noticed two applications from the scene. Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Třešňák - I have registered applications in this order. Mr. Kaňkovský. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u16	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues, Colleagues, I will follow up on my speech to the press 868. Unfortunately, what I've announced has come up. In the last press, not only did we mostly refuse to help small pharmacies, i.e. those pharmacies that have up to 15 employees, on which there was basically a total consensus here ten days ago. It is now announced by the Minister that she does not agree with the solution that the senators have come up with, which is more legislatively pure and which in addition extends it to the portfolio of up to 25 employees, which I also proposed here in the original discussion. I can only say that in the meantime I received a number of e-mails from those drug care providers in small municipalities. A number of them actually operate two or three pharmacies or one strain pharmacy and two dispensaries. In the vast majority of these pharmacies employ between 18 and 25 employees. It's not just the college pharmacists themselves, but they're pharmacological assistants and, of course, some administrative staff, cleaning service, etc. So I want to ask the government coalition at this point - it is announced that aid to pharmacists will not be approved in the Senate version, while the government coalition says that it wants to help pharmacists, especially those small mansions. And so I want to ask, do you care that the pharmacies in those small villages are preserved? Do you really care that for every trivial item, for the drop in the nose and all that, citizens don't have to go to the big seats? At this point, you just want to eliminate the drugstores completely from the help. And if you don't want to do it through a waiver of social security - which is one of the options - then I ask the absent minister Vojtěch how he will react to it in the payment decree. Because in the version proposed so far, the Minister wants to add a Czech crown to the signal code for the issue of one item for the recipe, which is in the finals about 60 cents in the net. For those small pharmacies, it's gonna mean about five or six thousand a month. Do you really consider that helping small pharmacies? And this isn't about the pharmacists after all. You're gonna say that the pharmacists are businessmen, so they can help themselves. But this is about the patients at the small mansions, which is often the senior category of citizens. And so I ask social democracy, I ask the YES movement and those others who refused to help small pharmacies in the last press, how you want to deal with it. Will Minister Vojtěch promise that even in the payment decree the signal code will increase, that it will not really be one Czech crown, but that it will be better help? If it happens, then of course it's okay. But I'd like to hear at least how the government is planning it at this point. It's not just the pharmacists, it's those who use the drugstores, and they're the patients at the small homes. Thank you for any answers from the members of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u17	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Maláčová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Let me react. In terms of corporate support over 50 employees, it's not like they get nothing at all. Only from the MPSV resort can participate - and you know that they are very much involved - in the program, or mode, Antivirus B. This means that companies over 50 employees participate in Mode B, even Mode A, which we have newly extended, and there they receive much higher amounts - 80 and 60 percent of supergross wages respectively. This applies only to less than 25 per cent of gross wages. That's what needs to be said. The second aid, which they have only from the MPSV resort, is the deferral of insurance premiums. And we honestly said that we were going to evaluate the numbers, how the second quarter turned out, and then we could possibly work with that proposal. Another thing that's very consistent, Mr. Senator, if you don't mind, didn't mention. In discussing this proposal, I strongly pointed out to the Senate that if Mr Golán's amendment was adopted, there would be damage to the pharmacies. I pointed it out very strongly, and it's also on the record. I really warned about it. Of course, support for small pharmacies is a priority for us. And if the Senate vote does not come to their support - the Minister of Health will say more about it - I am prepared in a legislative state of emergency to prepare such a law very quickly so that what we all want is not to lose the support of small pharmacies, which survive so especially in the countryside. [[Won't we?]] That means support for pharmacies is a government priority. And in the Senate, I pointed out extremely strongly, appealing. Even some Members' clubs have re-evaluated their votes as a result of this notice. That, too, must be said. As for the third point that I wanted to mention, I really wanted to shorten it - for Mr Ferjenčík - to shorten my explanation. It is not that employers will fill out more forms. The proposal, the Senate proposal, is legally unclear, confusing and extremely administratively demanding for employers. And it's not that companies over 50 employees have no support. This is the Antivirus C scheme and companies over 50 employees have the Antivirus B and A program, respectively, to postpone insurance premiums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u19	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, Minister Adam Vojtěch, followed by Mr Petr Třešňák and Mr Jan Skopeček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I will comment on this subject, which therefore concerns the issue of the promotion of pharmacies. So, while it seems that the inclusion of pharmacies in this bill will not be supported, of course, we are thinking about pharmacies. And the original version of the decree is no longer on the table. Since then, we have had a big debate with representatives of pharmacists, with the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, and we have moved significantly since the first decree. If we are talking about numbers, then originally there was a proposal of 16 crowns for signal output, now we have 19 crowns. Which, overall, was originally CZK 50 million, now it will be CZK 200 million for pharmacies. That means 50 million to 200 million increases. Indeed, we have discussed this very carefully with the pharmacist's representatives. They brought in data about how they were hit, how they actually dropped their drug spending on the recipe and so on. I think the debate was very constructive, and we have also come to this. That means that out of the originally 50 million it will now be CZK 200 million. And I believe that this way pharmacies will be supported enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u21	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák, from the place to the general debate, will be prepared by Mr Skopeček. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u22	Once again, good afternoon, dear colleagues. It seems to me that the situation that has happened is somewhat absurd. According to Minister Maláčová, the government really wants to support small pharmacies, but when the possibility was - and I even suggested a change in the order of negotiation of the various Senate returns - we could have supported this by the House Press 868. [[Nesroz.]] All we had to do was not vote for the Senate vomit, and this debate didn't have to be here right now. So here I really want to appeal to the Senate version being supported. [[16.00 hours]] And what the Minister said about the signal payments. The idea of supporting small pharmacies really disappeared. And why did I mention in the beginning that it was absurd? Because, as my colleague Kaňkovský also mentioned, we had a debate here ten days ago, actually almost accentuated what the small pharmacy is, if it is 50 employees, 25, 15, 10. kupodivu enough, we managed to find a match, and today's vote we buried the whole thing. So I'm hoping that today we'll support the Senate version of this press, and that means we'll meet and meet the small pharmacies. If this is really the signal payment, we will also support the large chains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u23	Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual comment, came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u24	My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I would like to refute one mistake that companies over 50 employees have a chance. Those who work in the service, those who have a much more difficult role today, are not entitled to anything. Yes, the one who makes screws or makes cars or makes styrofoam, so he can do stuff in storage and let people go home in peace, and that's when he reaches B. No one can reach "A" today slowly. But all those who have to disinfect today are open because the department stores will order what the operating hours will be, cannot be closed, so you have to disinfect, you have to be open, you have to have your employees there, but you can't do anything because the employee is at work, so you are not entitled to any compensation. If you're a company that hasn't been closed, then you're not entitled to compensation for rent. So what's going on here isn't true. And really, let's at least support some change, because there are still a lot of companies, or thousands of companies that haven't reached the crown of help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u25	Thank you. It is now Mr Jan Skopeček's turn in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to support the Senate's return for one simple reason. I am actually convinced that more than any subsidies and direct subsidies that the complex state redistributes towards entrepreneurs, so much more efficient, faster and better way is to reduce or forgive these entrepreneurs. We, when we discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, in particular colleague Jan Bauer, have tabled a number of amendments that have expanded companies, their size so as to support more companies than those supported by the government in its proposal, limited it by the 50 employees. I've been making an amendment here to expand it to companies with 250 employees, which is still the definition of a small or medium-sized enterprise. A compromise option returns from the Senate that these social contributions would be forgiven companies up to 150 employees. I think that if we want to support the sector in particular of small and medium-sized companies, from which we would like to see those strong capital companies grow and strengthen capital in the Czech economy, which is still dependent on foreign capital, this is one of the small measures that could help this. After all, we have seen how difficult administrative help is for the government. I know that, for example, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs turned out better in this regard compared to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and Mr Havlíček, where the COVID is simply a very problematic and unmanageful thing. On the other hand, I think that, indeed, after the first few weeks and months, when it certainly made sense to send direct money to entrepreneurs and businesses, it was time for us to think of some more support in the form of reduction or remission of contributions. It should be recalled that the Czech employer pays one of the highest social contributions for his employees, when compared with the most advanced OECD countries, he is very burdened, and if we want to save as many jobs as possible, this is the best way. So I'm asking very much for support to extend the possibility of support to companies with 150 employees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u27	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who has been excused, cancels her apology and is already present. Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologizes for working reasons today from 17.00 to 19.00. And Mr Václav Klaus ml. apologized from 16.40 until the end of the day for working reasons. President Markéta Pekarová Adamová will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to support the Senate version of the law. I think that we really should accept a change that will include in Antivirus and companies that are over 50 employees, but they won't fit in an A, or the B of the Antivirus, which, in the case of A, no longer satisfy most companies at all, because there is really a return of people to work, quarantine reasons are no longer very good. And B really only affects those who have very limited production, and not all of them, and I have already said that here when discussing this law within the House version right at the beginning, not all of them can, therefore, completely stop their production, on the contrary, need to keep people at work as much as possible. And if they fall out of all the aids, then they'll shut down, but definitely and completely, and those employees won't be kept. That's what we've been enchanting here from the very beginning, that we want to keep employment. And so the Senate comes up with an improvement that leads to that, which I think is very compromise and very conveniently set. So, since the opposition's amendments have not been passed, which have tried to respond and which could have already been passed in the House version, and we would not have to actually repeat this debate right now, let us give the Senate a chance to make a proposal that has been very well prepared and enforced. I think it would not only be an improvement in the very remission of contributions, which, of course, is also a help to 50 employees, but it may no longer be a help to medium-sized companies, and for them this version, the Senate version, can be the one that decides whether they will survive the crisis, whether they will maintain employment or not. And in my opinion, we should look for the very way that this proposal can help us, rather than here, let's say, nitpically look for every catch for the argument, when - as the Minister here has tried to demonstrate, so she has really discussed in detail what she sees behind the pitfalls, but I think that in those proposals that the government is putting forward here in the context of simple aids, in the context of the crisis, whether they are directly legislative things or just subsidy programs or various lending programs within the ministries, we have seen that they had a whole series of such mistakes, that there were repairs on the march, and this should be an attempt to admit us all that it didn't all go right, not everything was set in order from the very beginning. This change certainly does not suffer from such large flies so that we cannot accept it with a calm heart and vote for it. So even for TOP 09, I'm expressing my support for the Senate version, and I believe that since we started the Senate version acceptance trend today, we can continue with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u29	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u30	I just want to add one more thing that's very important. If you've been building a business for, like, 30 years, and you get in trouble, what are your options left, and what does that businessman - whatever - do? And we have three options. Either I'm gonna lie and manipulate what I'm handing over to Child Services, or I'm gonna release these people, or I'm gonna pay them black. These are the three options that every businessman uses when he gets into trouble. The moment we can't simply help him, that's what's going to happen. And here it sounded like it was going to cost us more money. It's not true, it's going to cost us far less. They won't abuse, they won't send people to work and they won't lie. Or they won't pay their wages in black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u31	Thank you. Is there a report? Yes, Mr Kaňkovský is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u32	Have a good afternoon again. I've only been for a very short time. Thank you for the response of Minister Maláčová and Minister Adam Vojtěch. However, I would return briefly to the Minister's response. You said, Madam Secretary, you cared about small pharmacies. Unfortunately, however, the vote that was in press 868, your MP voted in favour of the Senate proposal that released the aid to small pharmacies. And you're saying in one voice that you're going to prepare a proper bill in a legislative emergency that will make it right. And I'm asking, why are we so complicated, why are we putting it off again, why are we meeting here at the next emergency meeting? Or if you can make it by Friday? As far as I know, we have a legislative emergency approved by 30 June. That means you're gonna have to twitch a little bit, and we're probably gonna have to meet for another emergency meeting. Are those well spent funds? We could have been approved here today. We could've been approved, we could've had it in bows. Although we would only help the smallest pharmacies, the 15 actually, the maximum of 15 employees, exclude some pharmacies that would also need help, but we could still help the most at risk. But unfortunately, it seems that if the government coalition doesn't change the position on this press that, unfortunately, we're going to leave today with the fact that pharmacies haven't helped, and we're going to be meeting here at some other time, and we're going to pass another law in a state of legislative emergency. I don't think it's worthy of this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u33	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u34	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask my colleague Bláha if he had succeeded in getting at least nine colleagues from the club, because that would certainly be enough to approve the Senate version and support both pharmacists and medium-sized companies, just up to 150 employees. I think this is the way to go. Perhaps bypass your colleagues rather than speak from the counter, although it is well listened to in this case, which is quite a pleasant surprise for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u35	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is going into the debate - the Minister is reporting before the debate is closed. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u36	Thank you. Two more notes. It basically happened that - and I pointed out the legislative procedure in the Senate - that because Senator Goláň removed pharmacies, or put an amendment to pharmacies in this medium, and at the same time added the amendment to 150 employees to a company that is legally poorly written, then the Senate had to remove pharmacies from this medium the next day when he was discussing the Ministry of Health pharmacies. And I was pointing out that 150 employees are not acceptable. Moreover, it is a legislative pasquil and none will be achieved. That's what I honestly pointed out in the Senate. I think anybody who wants it can find it in the log. And once again, I particularly point out to Mr Bláha that there is actually a mixing of pears and apples. Because companies that work are entitled to support from Antivirus B. Because today - and you know that we publish statistics on Antivirus every Monday on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - quite a lot of companies work four days a week, and because they have low orders or few sub-deliveries, or some of their employees don't go to work, so they regularly send their employees to obstacles on Friday and they draw on the Antivirus program. So I ask Mr. Bláha to study it. Firms that work can draw on Antivirus B, and companies that work can also benefit from Antivirus A. So I'm asking you to graduate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u37	Mr Bláha will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u38	So, dear colleagues, colleagues, I have to respond because there's just a matter of bureaucracy mixed up with the things of people who work with their hands today and every day. So let's take an example of a small or larger restaurant when it's supposed to have more than 55 employees, and at that restaurant, you guys are coming to lunch. There must be spacing between tables, there must be disinfection of the table after each customer, so you have a lot more people at work than in normal condition, but you are not entitled to anything. You won't get a crown at all. We'll take the example of a bakery that I own, for example, and it's the same thing again. Dividing between tables, customers observe spacing, far slower customer handling, much more costs when you disinfect. And you've got people at work at a time when there's no one at the department store, but you can't lock up. Sales are at 60 percent, but you won't get a penny! Madam Secretary here says I'm full of shit. Then I'll take her to our house so she can see it. I know hundreds of companies that haven't received a crown, yet they have fallen to 50 percent of their production. And they're unable to leave their employees at home. They're not. I can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u39	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is applying to the debate. I'm done with the conversation. Interested in the final words? Mr. Senator Goláň. Senator, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'll show you the press release. [[It shall show the written material in plenary.]] Do you see the logos of the business unions, including the Chamber of Commerce? I'll show you there, too, so you can see it well. [[It also turns to the left side of the Chamber.]] We're talking about helping entrepreneurs here. And these unions, and they weren't few, represent the entrepreneurs. I thank Mr Bláh because he described exactly the situation that I know and know. And like the restaurants' chains, but mainly hotels, the services that have suffered most, it means travel agencies, travel agencies, hotel cleaning services, etc., these are companies that have more than 50 employees and are trying to keep those employees at any cost. And this is an excellent journey, because we're not paying anything out of the state budget. We leave them money that they generate themselves and that they just don't have to take. That means the help is actually from their own money. That's what the law was designed for. We can argue here about if there's an average calculated number, it won't be. I read here that the business unions have just joined what the Senate has created, which means that the average calculated numbers are there. And the 150 employees aren't that many, and it doesn't even meet the criterion of a small and medium-sized enterprise, 250 employees, as we have in various grant programs. I think this is the best way. Instead of making a large payment from the state budget, they're partially forgiving payments to the state budget. It's not an immediate hit on the state budget. Yes, of course, for futuro, the money won't go into the state budget. But they're gonna stay for the companies to start their economy, Mr. Bláha said it very well. So they can start the car and keep the employees busy. Because the worst thing that could happen to the state is to have those people at the employment office looking for jobs. The worst other thing would be to work black because the employer wouldn't be able to charge. And I think that the government proposal, as you originally prepared it, and the Senate modified it, is a reasonable compromise, and when we rise above where we are from, which club we all feel the same way that we have to help that economy. And as I was pointing out, it's helping entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, their unions have stood up for the Senate version. So if it's helping entrepreneurs, please listen to the business unions. The second thing is, which has been said many times here, that the Minister has warned us about drugstores. But the pharmacies at the beginning here today were actually the subject of an amendment, and you accepted the amendment, which we've all been counting on you to accept the other one so that the pharmacies wouldn't fall out of the support. That's how it's built today. And it's not about the Senate making something up on purpose to deprive the pharmacies of their support. [[16.20 hours]] You know how difficult it was from the legislative point of view, when you sent this proposal to the Senate to reduce social security, and then, because it was not approved, it was not effective, so what you had other than the Act on Compensation for Medical Devices. It was a thing that was basically unprecedented, on the other hand, inevitable on your part. But all the legislation will make it clear that it's actually, really, it's the wild rider, it's amending a law that doesn't really exist yet because it's not valid or effective. And the Senate had the opportunity to correct this legislative deficiency - unintentionally, I'm not telling anyone that it was intentional - and to merge the two adjustments where it belongs, i.e. to the Social Insurance Reduction Act. That's actually an explanation of how it all came about. I beg you all to hear the business unions, hear the entrepreneurs. It's not in senators, most senators are politicians, locals, they don't do business, so you can't think there was any personal interest. It's purely hearing the voice of the people, those people who really don't know what's going to happen next, and they don't know how they're going to survive. I consider this path that we all have chosen together to be very right. Thank you for your attention and once again, please support the Senate proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u41	Thank you, that was the final word. Madam Secretary also wants to speak with the final word? Yes, please, of course you have the option. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I ask you to support the House version, because companies with over 50 employees can use Antivirus B. Antivirus B can also support companies that work. It can support a part of the employees for which firms do not have jobs, send them to obstacles and there are higher amounts than the C which we are deciding on today. It's 60 percent super gross wages. Today we are talking about 24.8% of gross wages. That's a big difference. The important thing is that big companies can also have employees who work for example. four days a week and the fifth day are on the line. That means they're going to share working hours or just part of the staff. This means that even these companies will not lose their support, they have much higher, and this is in the Antivirus B program. The other thing is that big - or all companies regardless of their size, they can put off insurance for three months. This is another support that MPSV offers. I could talk about other programs throughout the government, but I will focus only on MPSV. And once again, if small pharmacies have been removed from the draft of the Ministry of Health because of how the vote took place - and this is not a negative invector - because small pharmacies have been removed from the draft of the Ministry of Health, I say that if there is an agreement at coalition level, then in a legislative state of emergency, we will very quickly issue a legislative proposal to the MPSV, where we will forgive the contributions to small pharmacies, so that we will support them and not have to close them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u43	Thank you, and with priority rights, President Pekarová Adamová has applied. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would have a request for a ten-minute recess for our club, it is only ten minutes, because I found what Mr Ferjenčík said here in the direction of Mr Bláh, and that will give him a chance in those ten minutes of those nine colleagues, for each one he has a minute plus one good, to win for the support of the Senate proposal. After all, there have been enough arguments here and from the Senator, so he is now equipped with them, and we also agree with his concept, so please just give this short break to give our colleague a chance to convince the nine Members we need to pass through the version. Thank you very much. It's until 16.34.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u45	I am declaring a break for the TOP 09 meeting. We'll continue at 16.34 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u46	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 16.34, we will continue our negotiations. The vote is next, so I call on Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. Before we proceed to the vote, one apology: Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes today between 16 and 19 o'clock on a business trip. Checkout request, I just granted it. Please log in with your voting cards again. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. The motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft Act on the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the outbreak in 2020 and amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, pursuant to House press 875/2, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 875/3.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 216 registered 167 Members, for 70, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The number of votes required is set. The resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft Act on the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the outbreak in 2020 and amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 875/2.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 217 entered 176 Members, for 176, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr. Senator. I'm done discussing this point. Mr Bauer to vote for the screen record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u47	Mr. Vice-President, just for the Steno Protocol. I voted in favour of serial number 216, I have a cross on the high road, I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-003-391.u48	Yes, thank you. We will now consider the point.
