ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law repealing the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Coll., on Real Estate Acquisition Tax, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation (seminal press 866/4/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We have information on the amendments in our mail. I welcome Senator Vladislav Vilímca among us and I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs on the Senate resolution on the amendments tabled. Madam Secretary, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly repeat the content of the bill abolishing the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Coll., on Real Estate Acquisition Tax, and repealing other related legislation, and then briefly commented on the Senate amendment with which this proposal was returned to the Chamber of Deputies. The draft law consists of abolishing the tax on the acquisition of immovable property in subsequent adjustments to the Income Tax Act, resulting in simplification and clarification of the tax system. The effective abolition of the real estate acquisition tax will take place in accordance with the transitional provisions of this draft law back to 31 March 2020. The tax obligations for which the time limit for filing a tax return expired on or after that relevant date shall cease to exist under the law. This is therefore the acquisition of ownership of immovable property in respect of which the transfer to the Land Register took place in December 2019 and later, or, if the immovable property is not registered in the Land Register, the acquisition of ownership took place in December 2019, later. At present, the so-called General Sorry of the Finance Minister is effective, so the taxpayers who will benefit from the cancellation did not have to pay the real estate acquisition tax today. However, if they have paid it, it will be returned to them by a standard procedure for returning the refundable overpayment. As a contribution to the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax, investment in real estate is expected to increase due to a reduction in the cost of purchase, which will lead to a recovery of the market. Please note that we have published today a macroeconomic prediction, and although we are in an unprecedented economic crisis, real estate investment has increased by 6.5 %. [[18.00 hours]] Regarding amendments to the Income Tax Act, it should be noted that, on the basis of the amendment adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies, it is proposed to maintain the deduction of interest on loans to secure housing needs while reducing the overall amount of interest on the original 300 000 to 150 000 crowns per year and to propose an extension of the so-called extension. a time test for the exemption of income from the sale of immovable property not purchased for the purposes of own housing from the previous five to ten years. Thus, the aim was to create more room on the market for the acquisition of own dwellings, to contribute to the reduction of speculative real estate procurement, and this change does not affect the exemption of real estate sales in which the seller is resident, so I said "not for permanent housing" or when the taxpayer sells and buys other immovable property for the purpose of his own housing. I would remind you that the extended time test will apply only to immovable property acquired from 1 January 2021. The old immovable property will thus continue to be exempted under the original conditions. The Chamber of Deputies approved the bill on 8 July 2020, the Senate subsequently returned the bill with an amendment with which the Ministry of Finance agrees. Let me introduce him briefly. The Senate amendment responds to the amendment adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies, which proposed maintaining the deduction of interest on mortgages, but amended the Income Tax Act not quite correctly and comprehensively. Sorry, he did it properly and comprehensively - senate. The content is therefore the legislative technical regulation of the Income Tax Act necessary to maintain a functional deduction of interest on loans for housing needs. This is specifically the maintenance of legislation allowing proof of the right to deduct, the removal of the duplicate definition of housing needs and the adjustment of transitional provisions. So I'd like to ask you to support the Senate proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-002-002.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and now I ask Senator Vladislav Vilímec to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-002-002.u4	Vice-President of the Government, honourable Members, by Senate resolution 482 of the 26th meeting of 12 August 2020 The Senate has returned the draft law number of the Senate press 297, the number of the House press 866, as amended by the amendments adopted, annexed to this resolution. The Senate has dealt very closely with the wording of this bill - it is quite complicated because it is not only the abolition of the real estate tax - and it has clearly supported the long-disputed cancellation of the real estate tax, after all, the title of the law. And much has already been described about the absurdity of the taxes associated with the transfer in the acquisition of real estate, and I do not want to go back to that. I consider this a historic moment, because during the last parliamentary term and during this parliamentary term, both Members, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate have made several attempts to abolish this tax. In the case of this tax, whether it was previously called the real estate transfer tax or the current real estate acquisition tax, it was always in fact a double taxation, when once the taxation of real estate income related to the sale of real estate tax for the second time. This has been mentioned many times, and the existing concept, which has been enforced since 1 January 2014, has been more favourable to the tax administrator, but has in fact significantly increased the acquisition of real estate, when the buyer has often had to borrow money after the purchase price to pay the real estate acquisition tax, in a situation where he did not receive any income and, on the contrary, had to pay for the purchased item. In this context, there was often talk of an immoral approach by the state. The government coalition, both in the last parliamentary term and in this parliamentary term, has in fact defended the tax only because of the fiscal contribution to the state budget, for no other reason. The current crisis period paradoxically opened the way to the final and irreversible abolition of this tax, which, of course, the senát welcomed, therefore, did not interfere with the actual material of the cancellation of real estate tax, since it was written precisely. However, changes to the Income Tax Act were also part of this House's press. I took the job, Madam Secretary knows, and I figured it was the 160th novel. Madam Secretary claims even more, but I'd rather stick to my honest calculations, the 160th amendment to the Income Tax Act. [[Nesroz.]] And, of course, in such a case, it is no wonder that the Chamber of Deputies went to the Senate not entirely perfect form of the amendment of the law, because the original concept, aside from the time test, the extension, we did not enter into it either, the original concept of the Ministry of Finance and Government consisted in the abolition of the possibility to deduct interest on mortgages, starting on 1 January 2023, if I am not mistaken. In fact, in 2022, the concept envisaged that interest on loans could be deducted up to the total value of CZK 300,000 per year for those newly acquired contracts. I consider it, and I know there was a big debate about it. The Minister in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies argued that, in fact, in the event of the cancellation of the real estate acquisition tax, the buyer would receive the money immediately, not for more years, the deduction of interest on the loan granted. But here it must be noted that this intriguing and inventive argument is that the mortgage loan is not only part of the acquisition of real estate, but also the maintenance of apartments as described in the present section 15 para. 3 and newly in Section 4b, because there was even a certain systematicisation of some of the paragraphs, so I personally welcome and welcome and I think that the Senate also welcomed that a proposal was made, a compromise proposal that facilitated the way to a smooth completion of the legislative process, even if it was not fully linked to the overall concept of the proposals put forward by the Government and the Minister. To be honest, when you know the method of work of the Chamber of Deputies look, and you know it well - you have today, or at least it has been proposed at 494 points. Even if there are geniuses sitting here, in some cases it's just obvious that there's no time for some things to go completely into such complex laws as the Income Tax Act. So regardless of the fact that the bill, or the proposal tabled by Mr Vojtěch Munzar, was not impeccable, certainly, so it made it easier for the next legislative process. [[18.10 hours]] The Senate had two choices. He rejected one to resign from the fact that the proposal was not perfect and that many provisions were unapplicable, and waited, or accepted, to wait for some 161th amendment. I don't think you can work like that. That is why the Senate, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, eventually proceeded to correct the resulting text. I would point out that this was not an easy job. Madam Secretary knows because we discussed this with each other. And I appreciate that our Senate legislation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance legislation, has finally reached an agreement after five hours of rather intense negotiations. That's why I'm saying it's not a trivial thing at all. And I do not want to criticise the proposal that came out of the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate then voted in plenary by a large majority of the senators, I think that only two senators abstained in the vote on the amendment, and then 70 out of 71 senators voted in the vote on the return of the law. So it's obvious that it had a lot of support and support from the Treasury. To make this completely clear, the debate, as it is with the deduction of the mortgage interest, and the Senate concept in the logic of the amendment, is counting on the fact that if the proposal is approved today, then, if mortgage loan agreements are secured or concluded for residential needs this year, it is possible to apply a deduction of interest from the tax base up to CZK 300,000. [[unintelligible]] And if these contracts are concluded or obtained from 1 January 2021, it will be up to a set value of 150,000. I'm saying this to be clear, because I've been getting some questions about how it is. So that's the essence of the Senate proposal. The last thing - and not that I want to promote myself, I don't mean personally, but the Senate, but I have to do it. There is often such an irrational debate about the senate's purposefulness. Everyone knows who makes those notes sometimes. And I must say that the story of this law is perhaps best illustrated by the importance of the Senate, because it is perhaps not a more crystallistic and better example. The Senate has acted as guardian of certain legislative activities, guarantor of elementary feasibility and application of the provisions of the law that came from the Chamber of Deputies. So, honourable Members, I would like to ask you, even in accordance with the petitioner, the Minister of Finance, to approve the amendments, respectively. the draft law, as amended by the amendments adopted in the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-15-ps2017-058-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Senator. And I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which was the Committee on Budgets, whether he wants to comment on the proposals tabled - he was Mr Rais. He doesn't want to express himself. So I'm opening up a debate. No one is enrolled in the debate. Is anyone reporting for the debate, please? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? It's not. Then we shall proceed to the vote. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution requires the approval of an absolute majority of Members present. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill abolishing the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation, House press 866/4, as approved by the Senate, House press 866/5.' Before we proceed to the vote, I will sign you all off on request, please sign up again with your cards. We are now ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 93 Members signed in for 91, against no one. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, Vice-President of the Government, thank you to the Senator, and I am done discussing this point. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
