ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-04-ps2017-014-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will sign you out, and I beg you to sign up with ID cards. Like a moment ago, the replacement cards are valid from the 50th and 47th meetings. I say that those who were excused for the 50th and 47th meetings asked to apologize for their absence. I remind you that the 14th meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies at 9 pm on 31 May 2018 and was interrupted before the vote on the verifiers of the meeting, when the House was unable to resolve. We will therefore proceed to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member Jana Krutáková and a Member of Jiří Valenta. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. 113 Members were voted in this vote, for 112, against no one. The proposal was therefore accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Krutáková, and a Member of Jiří Valenta, as verifiers of the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 14th meeting, the content of which was given on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure The Chamber of Deputies shall decide only on the agenda referred to in the application, the amendment or addition of the agenda cannot be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's up for the proposed show. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 113 Members and Members are registered, for 56, against 32. [[Laughs in plenary.]] I'm saying at this point that the show hasn't been approved. And then I'm done with this meeting. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you all for your cooperation, so we cleared our table. And thank you very much to the House staff who have stuck with us here.
