ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-005-231.u1	231. Report on petitions received by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, their content and manner of handling for the period from 1. 1. 2019 to 30. 6. 2019 /house print 614/ Madam President of the Petition Committee, Helena Válková, once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-005-231.u2	Thank you. I'll try to be even more specific. We are already in the period of 2019, in the first half, January until the end of June 2019. In total, only nine petitions were accepted. Right in January it was a petition with 24 096 signatures in which petenti requested a change so-called. anti-smoking law in the sense that the owners of the restaurant facilities can separate for smokers a place where the guests are not able to eat. petent has been informed that the members of the petition committee have become familiar with the content of their petition. On the same petition - the same petition - a public hearing took place in 2018, where we exchanged the views of petenti - representatives of the Ministry of Health - Members, and finally after this proposed mitigation, allow me to simplify this, the so-called. the anti-smoking law - he was not the anti-smoking law, there was only one lot concerning several provisions of this issue - it was on 29. 5. 2018 rejected in the first reading. So in this regard, even if petents were not satisfied in the result, it was discussed. Another petition, with 7 756 signatures, called for the maintenance of the existing territorial scope of the municipality with the extended scope of Turnov and the creation of the Turnov district. I'm not here to read exactly what we've been through here - negotiations with the Home Office, I've attended several times, then, of course, we've talked with representatives, with Turnov citizens or with their representatives, with petents, we've requested documentation. The result was that the Ministry of the Interior did not hear the petition of the petents and justified it relatively well. Materials are available. In this sense, even petents were informed. Another third petition - and here is also one extreme example and I think good - was a petition with a single signature, but 1,674 signatures by electronic means. Petenti protested against the Senate proposal for the amendment of Section 23 of the Copyright Act and concerns about the adoption of this proposal, as this would mean that prices for material or intellectual works would affect the state according to, in their opinion, the wishes of an influential user or group of users directly by law. As part of the discussion of the amendment to the Copyright Act, this was the press 175 in the Chamber of Deputies, and the content of this petition was made known, the rapporteur Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and I spoke about it, and then we adopted a resolution in which we approved the proposal for the Copyright Act in the text in which the Senate was referred. So print 175/4. That's how the petition was dealt with. In April 2019 we registered a petition for the establishment of a protected area of natural water accumulation in the area of the confluence of Berounka and Vltava. Once again, one signature, 256 ofocated, 271 sent by e-mail, which doesn't count. Of course, we were informed with the competent state authorities and then we prepared an answer, the petenti were informed. Whether they're satisfied, we don't know, but our duty to investigate the case and to inform us has been fulfilled. Then there was a petition with one signature, which is exactly the curious case when there is one signature, and we qualify as a petition that called for a systemic solution to the problem. Bastards. The rapporteur spoke to the writer, so we were in contact with him. In a way, this case is still in the solution. We have also agreed to the rapporteur's request to extend the deadline for the hearing of the petition. We think that this is also a case that might be of interest to law enforcement authorities, but it is a case that is not typically a petitioner. So I guess the pettent wasn't satisfied here, and we don't think we're competent to do this any other way than move on. Another petition, 154 signatures, concerned the department of the village of Holašovice from the village of Jankov in the district of České Budějovice. This is such an interesting case where both of these municipalities are in a very tense relationship, because one municipality is, according to the law and basically according to the UNESCO standard, considered a community of extraordinary importance, and therefore also receives certain advantages, which, of course, the other municipality also makes use of, and this does not please the inhabitants. The petition rapporteur identified the position of the Governor of the South Bohemia Region when the proposed change would have hit the Czech Government's Legislative Council. Those consultations took place there and a more viable solution appears within the municipal council - to persuade current representatives to hold a local referendum. In this sense, we have also informed petents. Another petition, I think that you too, who do not follow exactly or continuously the activities of our committee, were captured - under proper examination of the circumstances of the death of Mareček from Loun and for a significant increase in the penalties for the perpetrators of crimes committed on children - with 16 322 plus 18 000 electronic signatures, which do not count, but nevertheless. She was originally handed over to the Office of the President of the Republic. We held a public hearing attended by petents, of course representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Fund of Endangered Children. The meeting was attended by the chair of the Permanent Commission on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, Mrs Pastuchová, at the time in this capacity, which proposed to launch a wider education initiative, to mediate similar cases more. We have conducted negotiations to alert the public that it is too late, that the courts already have a very wide range of options to punish the perpetrators of such crimes as strictly as possible, but that the most important thing is to save those lives. So at a time when he can still intervene, not to be indifferent, indifferent. The investigation and the conduct of the public hearing were rather trying to focus on these issues. It was then pointed out for petents that it was appropriate to point out these cases where, on the basis of the mediation of a particular case, they manage to save abused or endangered children. That is what I think the media should take to heart and address these issues that can save people's lives, especially when they are the lives of those who can't defend themselves at all, children. Well, that's settled. I had a very good feeling -- even the other members of the petition committee, I think I can speak for them, that they have had petents explain everything, that they have acknowledged that the current rates are sufficient and that it depends on the courts whether they will use them in full, they will impose the strictest penalties, but that the most important thing is prevention, attention and response. [[11.40 hours]] Finally, another petition was for strengthening the rights of the community of owners of units and owners of housing units. The petition was with 48 468 signatures. The petition was then dealt with by the petition committee and held a public hearing. Finally, 26. 6. one sheet of petition was sent to the petition committee for a non-discriminatory increase in parental allowance with one signature and 226 signatures by electronic means. You can see that we are really seeing more and more cases of electronic signatures, and we need to include at the plenary session the amendment that would make this possible. That's all for me. Of course, I'm always obliged to inform you about the semester, and some of the petitions, they're being settled by the next semester. So this covers the mid-January 2019 to June 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-005-231.u3	Yes, thank you. I am initiating a general debate. Anyone reporting for the general debate? No one's checking in. I'm done with the conversation. I am opening up a detailed debate. I don't have an application for a detailed debate. I am ending the debate in detail. I ask you to get to know the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-005-231.u4	Yes. It is resolution 124 of the Committee on Petitions from its 23rd meeting on 1 October 2019, when we approved the detailed report submitted, which I presented to you only briefly. The Committee has instructed me to inform you and has recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Report on petitions adopted by the Chamber of Deputies and their contents and how they are processed for the period from 1. 1. 2019 to 30. 6. 2019'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-005-231.u5	Yes, thank you. We have heard the motion for a resolution, which we will now vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 71. Registered 158 Members, for 134, against no one. I note that the resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-005-231.u6	If I could just thank you, Mr Vice-President, for receiving these reports and point out that we have prepared the petition report for the period from 1. 7. 2019 to 31. 12. 2019 and we hope it will be included in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-23-ps2017-040-03-005-231.u7	Yes, thank you, Madam President of the Petition Committee. This dealt with the petition reports as we were supposed to include them in today's agenda. And I'm opening another point, which is
