ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u1	2. Government draft law amending certain tax laws in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus 874/ - shortened conduct According to § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. So I am opening the debate. No one's checking in. So, if no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of a government bill amending certain tax laws in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House press 874, in a shortened hearing'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 175 Members registered, for 132, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. [[12.50 hours]] So I am now opening a government bill amending certain tax laws in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, House press 874, shortened negotiations. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me introduce you to the draft anti-crisis tax package. The aim of this proposal is to mitigate the adverse economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic through amendments to six tax laws. I consider the most important change to the amendment to the Income Tax Act, which will enable taxpayers to make the tax loss incurred as an item deductible from the tax base and retroactively, in the two tax periods immediately preceding the tax period in which the tax loss occurred. At present, taxpayers can only apply tax losses in advance, so they have the opportunity to reduce or even zero their tax in the next five tax periods. However, they have the opportunity to take account of the loss only at the moment when they again generate profit. [[Nesroz.]] The proposal introduces the possibility to apply the loss even retroactively. This is not a tax exemption, but a conceptual institute that will allow the tax obligation to take account of losses suffered very quickly. This institute, also known as loss carryback, is resistant to abuse, because the taxpayer is getting a refund of the tax that he has already paid. Nevertheless, we have put in place measures in the proposal to prevent special-purpose transfers of losses from abroad. The measure represents a significant macroeconomic shift. At present, the loss can only be claimed for the future. The tax bases are reduced only at a time when their economic situation is favourable, which is less appropriate than the possibility to apply these items directly at a time when they have to deal with the economic impact. The new mechanism therefore means the introduction of a so-called built-in stabilizer of an economy that has a countercyclical function. This measure does not mean a general government deficit in the medium term. Already today, taxpayers - please point out - can claim tax losses by now, but only at a later date. If they are able to apply the loss earlier, the impact on tax collection will only be shifted over time. The tax loss will only be applied in comparison with the current situation earlier. In this light, the published cash impacts on public budgets need to be seen. The overall budgetary impact may even ultimately be positive. Entrepreneurs will receive help when they need help. This will result in fewer trades and companies that will then pay more in taxes than if this measure had not been implemented. This measure was proposed by the Ministry of Finance without an upper limit and was approved by the Government in this form. To explain the whole genesis, the original proposal, which was discussed a month ago, sent to colleagues within the government coalition, had a ceiling of 25 million, however, after the debate with all the unions, associations and chambers, whether it be the Chamber of Tax Advisors, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Industry and Transport, Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, Association of Trade and Tourism, we finally removed this threshold and that limit. So the government approved it without limit, and for that reason, and I acknowledged the argument that if the loss is applied in the future, it applies in the next five years without limit, so why should it be with the limit back. However, given that the coalition partner had a different view on this, he was afraid of using this institute by larger companies, a compromise was found yesterday at the level of the Presidents, which Members submitted for the ANO, ČSSD and KSČM movement, in the form of a reduction in the application of the tax loss backwards to 30 million, with the fact that, of course, if the loss were greater, the company would apply it anyway in the following years, that is to say in 2021 at the earliest. This is an adjustment that we have in the Income Tax Act for about 25 years. This will reduce the negative impact on public budgets from the original estimated 31 billion. CZK in the year of introduction to about 20 billion, and this amount will then increase tax revenues between 2022 and 2025, when companies and entrepreneurs would apply the tax loss that would be incurred by them this year and next year. Thus, more money will eventually flow into the state budget and the overall balance will thus be balanced. Let's do the math. Of course, we're not able to calculate how many companies end up in loss at the Treasury. We really can't do that. So we're the calculation, and that's why you're going to accept that it's very rough, which we've done by coming out of the model, we've calculated with a model based on a decline in the profits of companies in the previous economic crisis, taking into account the estimated amount of decline in the current situation. So we took the losses in the crisis from 2009 to 2010 and we modified them to the current conditions. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] This adjustment contains a transitional provision which shows that it will be possible to apply the tax loss retroactively for the tax period ending on 30 June 2020, because not every company has a tax period of a calendar year, but are companies that have a tax period of the marketing year. So that which ends on 30 June 2020 can already be used in the form of an advance in the tax return submitted by 1. 7. 2020 is already able to make some kind of estimate, which will, of course, be confirmed in a proper 2020 return. In the first tax period...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u3	Madam Secretary is asking for peace of mind, so I'd like to ask for peace of mind so the Minister can express himself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you. In addition, for the first tax period for which the tax loss will be allowed to be recovered, the taxpayer will be able to estimate the amount in its course, which I have said now, to use this estimated amount as a deductible item from the tax base in the immediately preceding period. So in the current situation, it is important for him to receive the money as quickly as possible, which is why we have approached this flexible solution in the first tax period. Another amendment to the tax law concerns value added tax. The anti-crisis tax package comes with a reduction in the rate for accommodation services, admission to cultural events, sports events, as well as admission to the sport centre, including lift fare. We're straightening up, remember? We have cable cars at 10 percent, the lifts were at 15, it was an amendment, I think, by Mrs Kovářová, so we're leveling it to 10 percent. Admission to the saunas and other similar facilities. In all cases, the VAT rate is reduced to 10 per cent of the current 15 per cent. These are the areas that are most affected by pandemics, and we want to relieve them in this way. We want them to be able to get out of a difficult financial situation. Another tax law contained in this anti-crisis package is an amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act, which gives municipalities more opportunities in the area of exemption from this tax because this tax is 100% of the municipality's income. The municipalities can already increase it by means of a coefficient, and now we give them the authority to decide on any exemption. It's up to them, so I think it's right, because it's their return. And that, of course, in a situation, can make it a generally binding decree if there are real estates affected by natural disasters, floods, storms, extreme droughts, and, of course, even in the event of other incidents such as pandemics, emergency measures under a crisis law or an industrial accident. So this exemption from the municipality will also be possible to do it backwards. It will be absolutely within the competence of the municipalities. [[13.00 hours]] Another amendment to the Tax Act, which is part of the package, is an amendment to the Road Tax Act, where it is proposed to reduce road tax rates by approximately 25 per cent for trucks, buses and other vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of more than 3.5 tonnes. This will be reflected back from the beginning of this year, this is important because it will be reflected essentially by reducing the advances that would be paid for this tax, because the taxpayers, if they have not used only the so-called General Sorry Finance Minister, which has postponed the obligation to pay advances on road tax and paid the advance at the original amount, will use the difference between the original and the new amount to pay the remaining advances. The next two novels are little things. As part of the promotion of agricultural business, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act reduces the time limit for the refund of the excise duty on so-called green diesel, where it is 60 days today and is reduced to 40 days. As a result, entrepreneurs will, of course, receive the funds for their account sooner. In the amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Tax Administration, it is proposed to establish the power of the Government to respond operationally to European Union legislation on the basis of which time limits are to be extended for the fulfilment of obligations relating to automatic exchange of information in international cooperation in tax administration, which is legislative technical regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u5	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Since we are acting in a legislative emergency, the first reading does not take place. However, before we go any further, I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes from 1 pm to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Vyzula from 1 pm to midnight because of a doctor's visit and Mrs Pekarová Adamová apologises from 12 pm to the end of the day for personal reasons. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 874/1. [[Noise in the hall.]] I now ask that the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please. I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u6	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, as has already been said here, allow me to briefly recapitulate that this amendment concerns the laws on real estate tax, income tax, road tax, excise duties, value added tax and international cooperation in tax administration. This proposal was discussed by the government this Monday afternoon. This is a proposal for a tax crisis package. [[Noise in the hall.]] I've already listed the laws that apply here. The proposal is to discuss it in a legislative emergency. The Committee on Budgets dealt with this press at its meeting yesterday morning and discussed several amendments. Po--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u7	Madam President, I would like to interrupt you again and ask the House for more peace again. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u8	There were three amendments that were discussed. There was a rich debate, to sum up, but the motion for a resolution, which was approved, is in the following text. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance, the report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations by 29 May 2020 at the latest by 19.00; IV. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's draft law amending certain tax laws in relation to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus should give its consent without comment. So many budget committee resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u9	Thank you for the resolution. It included proposals for debates to be held, which is a normal procedure, so if no one feels the need, we do not need to vote on it. Okay, there's a conviction that we have to, so I'm gonna call my colleagues into the ballroom and we're gonna vote gradually. There is a request for a check-out, so please sign up again with your cards, and when they do and everyone arrives, I repeat that we will decide first whether we will hold a general debate and then, if necessary, whether we will conduct a detailed debate. I believe there's more of us in the room than the counting device shows, so please, everyone, come forward. If all those who want to be logged in are already logged in, then we will vote on whether we will hold a general debate. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 78 vote, 135 Members and Members are registered, for 132, against no one. We will have a general debate, and I am opening it with this. Vice-President Kubíček claims priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I propose a reduction in the debate for one speaker in both the general and the detailed debate for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u11	There is a proposal to shorten the voting time to five minutes. So we will vote on whether the House agrees to restrict speaking time to five minutes. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the 79 vote, 139 Members and Members were enrolled, for 92, against 28. I note that the proposal has been accepted and that speaking time has been limited to five minutes. We will therefore continue the debate in the order of Members as they are signed up. [[The President shall be informed.]] Yes, and we have Mr. Bartošek's application to the matter. Please. It's both general and detailed, so then I'll invite you to the detailed one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u12	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Our esteemed colleagues, on Tuesday we approved the Act on Compensation Bonus, which took from the budget of municipalities and regions in the sum of 15 billion - 11 municipalities, 4 regions. On the part of the Minister, it was said that the way in which the Senate adopted the amendment cannot be paid this compensation bonus because it would jeopardise the payment of this compensatory bonus. I have respected the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, which has decided to adopt the parliamentary proposal, and I have prepared a second proposal for today's negotiations to correct it. It is quite all right, it is designed as a contribution to municipalities and regions. It is a claim and useless contribution, its payment will be made through the Ministry of Regional Development and will be paid this year. It is designed to provide a contribution of CZK 1,000 per capita, Prague will receive CZK 2,100 per capita, Pilsen, Ostrava and Brno CZK 1,500 per capita, and the regions will receive CZK 400 per capita, which ultimately compensates for the loss of income of municipalities and regions. [[13.10 hours]] And now I am speaking to all of you who are primarily from the government coalition, from the YES movement and from social democracy. You who are representatives have the opportunity to make amends so that your city and regional budgets are not cut. The amendment I am proposing is quite all right, it is not a problem. And you either have the opportunity to stand up for mayors and self-government and say that you will not sink them, or you will not support the amendment, and at that moment you are opposed to your cities and municipalities and taking money from your cities, the possibility of investing, the possibility of contributing to social services, the possibility of promoting cultural events in your communities and in your regions. If you do not support this amendment, it is a clear message to the people that you do not care about cities and regions and that even though you had the opportunity to compensate for this outage of their budget from the state budget, you decided to punish them and take money from them. Then answer that in front of your constituents. I am saying this because this bill comes with another step that will reduce the budgets of municipalities and regions again by billions. I don't know if the secretary told you this, but this tax package will take 7 billion from the municipal budget in the second step and less than 3 billion from the county budget. This means that, in sum of what was approved on Tuesday, and in sum, when you approve today, there will be a blackout in municipal and regional budgets of 25 billion. This is in your hands today and your decision will affect whether the municipalities and the regions will lose this money. For this reason I am convinced, and I offer you the opportunity, you have a free choice that you can stand up for the budgets of municipalities and regions. And I have two amendments, which I will make in the general debate, and then I will join them in a detailed debate. They concern the proposed measure loses carryback. A number of renowned economists have pointed out by letter and call for the risk you are taking to the state budget when this proposal is adopted. If you don't put the possibility of paying losses back from the profits of 2019 and 2018, you may also turn the national budget into a dump for the failed economy not only for Europe, but also for multinational corporations around the world, because those losses will go into our budget because they are not covered by how this government wants to limit them. Maybe the secretary will say it's there, but the way I have information, and the economists' statement clearly shows that there's no limit. So for example. banks can come, multinational corporations can come and say - we are really lost, Czech Republic, pay us. This is what makes the current move possible. For this reason, I bring two amendments concerning this instrument, the first saying that it will be completely excluded from the tax package because I believe that it is recording to large corporations, which could be much better able to withstand impacts and better prepare for them than small ones, or then it will stop at a maximum of two times eight million, every year 8 million backwards. The parameter that is being pointed out is that I think in Germany that I should not make it up, in Germany or France, it's being ceilinged by 1 million euros, which corresponds to, say, the strength of the local economy. When it is counted on the purchasing power and power of the economy of the Czech Republic, I downloaded it to about 16 million, which can return. And if we accept the possibility of not implementing this instrument - and we are currently talking about some 42 billion, which is a rough estimate - I suggest that this money be used primarily to support cursarbeit or to pay health and social insurance for entrepreneurs, because what is absolutely crucial is that we must use, above all, the instruments that will lead to maintaining employment. This money is not a tool to maintain employment, it is money that can only be given to companies, while cursarbeit is clearly meaningful support for people to stay at work and work, or forgiveness and payment of health and social insurance for entrepreneurs is clearly a great help especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for whom it means a great expense. For this reason, I ask you to support the contributions to municipalities and regions, or to put a stop to this instrument introduced by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u13	Thank you, too, and we will therefore continue the debate. I have here, with a factual remark from Mr Hrnčíř, but I assume that is a mistake. Or... You're logged in. Well, in that case, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would just briefly comment on what was said here. We had a rather long debate on the budget committee yesterday. In principle, the idea of applying the reverse tax loss, which, for example, will arise this year or others, as long as the economic crisis lasts, is essentially good. However, we argued that not to apply any limit to the use of this tax loss or these advantages would mean that for multinational corporations that are often aggressively planning to do so, they could drain the budget with a relatively significant amount. That is why there are limits in the countries where it works, about four or five in the European Union. The Minister assured us that this was no problem, that the Financial Administration would handle it, and that the representatives of the corporations would agree with it without the limit. And if we take the view that the Czech Republic is already functioning as a kind of food for Europe, where gigantic profits are realised here, which are then made abroad in the form of dividends, and that is not even taxable in our country, they are taxed in Malta or Luxembourg or Cyprus or simply where the tax is minimal or zero, so in this way without that limit, we would basically become another waste heap of tax losses by multinational corporations and I think that would be a mistake. Therefore, we have proposed a limit for the deduction of a maximum amount of CZK 25 million and I hereby ask for the support of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u15	Thank you. If necessary, the proposal should be loaded in a detailed debate. And now we can throw ourselves at the really logged in. Mr Votava is the first one here. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll introduce the House with a note. Mr Luzar apologises between 15 and midnight for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, my previous speakers have already talked about this. As regards the amendment to the Income Tax Act and the retroactive application of the tax loss, I also spoke about it yesterday on the Committee on Budgets. I, too, would point out what you have probably all received from the members of the economic advisory team at the Central Crisis Staff, and I think that those who are signed under this are not, to say the least, any pencil sharpeners, and we also cannot suspect that they would not want to wish our businesses and companies to help them. If it stays the way it is, it's not a vote for me. I believe - and the Minister has already indicated that there is an amendment. In any case, it is necessary to crop, respectively. give a limit to the size of the loss that can be deducted. For me, it's up to a maximum of 30 million, but I'll support every reasonable up to 30 million, because I really can't afford a 30-billion axe in the state budget. Moreover, it would also concern the regions, of course, it would concern municipalities, because, of course, they breathe in the state budget or receive funds from shared taxes. [[13.20 hours]] There can't be a debate about this being directed more or less for big companies. This is quite obvious, because small companies do not generate such large profits, they usually move only at the edge of profitability, so it really is more or less for large companies. I also think that this should be limited in time, that this should really only apply to the effects of pandemic problems. That is, therefore, what concerns the recovery of the tax loss. However, in the rest of the time I have, I would like to draw attention to the amendment that I have already tabled on the Committee on Budgets and I am putting it again, so it is in the system under number 5410 and it concerns the transfer of some basic foods from a 15% VAT rate to 10%. It should be said that a number of restrictive measures have been implemented in the context of the declared emergency situation, which had a direct or indirect effect, and still has, on the economy, and these negative effects are affecting not only the business sector but also, of course, the consumption of the population. Inflation is currently over 3%, we have one of the highest inflations throughout the European Union. To mitigate the effects, we are therefore proposed to transfer basic foods to the second reduced 10% rate. There was an objection that chaos would arise. I don't think that chaos would arise in this classification, because the list is attached to it, and it's done on the basis of a certain tariff, the nomenclature codes, so I think it can be very clear and clear as it should be. Perhaps a few comments on the arguments against. One argument is that VAT will not lower the price, it will only increase the margin of entrepreneurs. I think that if it didn't lead directly to price cuts, at least to slowing down further price increases and creating room for price increases. Why only basic foods? Because, of course, if we put all the food there, the impact on the state budget would be in the order of tens of billions of crowns, whereas here, as we propose, it is about 8 billion crowns. I've also heard such a ridiculous example of why there may be dates. But we took it generally for fruit, for vegetables, for other foods, so if there is fruit, then, of course, there are dates in the code or the tariff. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So it's just an explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u17	Mr. Ambassador, the House voted five minutes to perform. I have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u18	I understand, thank you, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u19	You can sign up again. Thank you. And now, Mr. Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u20	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have been fighting for a month to find funds to compensate for the decline in the incomes of cities, municipalities and regions. Not because we want to see and build ditches between state and government, exactly the opposite. Yes, it is all one common state and it is a common interest to ensure that there is no major economic damage. A month ago, we suggested that funds be provided for the realization of investments by cities, municipalities and regions, because they are investments prepared. If there is no means for them, it will not only be the cities, municipalities, regions, and citizens who live in them, but, of course, the economy will suffer as well. We are all in agreement that investment and investment from public budgets are an important step in refueling the economy. Therefore, when we call for funding for cities, municipalities and regions, it is also a call for us to be able to restore the engine of the economy. So please, the moment Bartošek's proposal is passed, it is one concrete solution. We bring it again, we do not give up, what we pointed out a month ago, yes, we will not give up, we will try it again and again, because this is the right direction, because it is important for cities, municipalities, regions and citizens of the Czech Republic. So we propose, and it is our amendment, to ensure concrete support for self-governing localities, for cities, municipalities and regions as one-off support from the state budget of CZK 1,000 per citizen for cities and municipalities and CZK 400 per citizen for individual regions. A specific simple proposal that does not go in the direction, as we have heard in the previous days, that the Ministry of Regional Development's subsidy programmes would be pumped. We reject such unnecessary burdens on administration and bureaucracy. What we offer is fairer, much simpler, without unnecessary burden, for very simple and immediate use for investment in cities, municipalities and regions. We call for unnecessary spending on bureaucratic operations consisting in submitting applications for subsidies, their evaluation, follow-up checks, decision-making, scoring and so on, but so that the funds can be dealt with very quickly by municipalities, cities and regions. I strongly hope that you will hear this call of common sense, because there are a number of arguments and no one has questioned them here throughout the negotiations. Please, let us together find a way to complement the public budget gap on the part of cities, municipalities and regions to help make investments in the Czech Republic as quickly as possible and as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u21	Thank you, too. There are some factual points. Mr. Hrnčíř, if I haven't deleted it before, it'll be older. Yes. Mr. Mr. Bláha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u22	I'll just hurry. All the Members of Parliament who are here, we see that the municipalities need help. All the Members who are here are aware that it is not the happiest through the subsidy programmes and, of course, often the money will end up with those who process it rather than where it should end. But I think it should be time, really time for us not to do it right now, but to do it this way: let's sit down, let's talk about it, and I believe that the Minister really has a mind to think about it and that he knows it and that he's going to prepare it to help these communities. Believe it. In this case, I trust her, and I think we all know what we're up to. Now, we helped the entrepreneurs quickly, which was important that there be some revenue in the future at all, and now let's talk about it. That's the point. Let's talk about it, find a solution, set it up as best as possible so that the money doesn't end up really where it doesn't end up, and end up in those investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u23	Thank you. I just got a technical note from the rapporteur, so let's give her the floor. However, I would like to remind you that there was historically some agreement that if we were to act in a legislative emergency, we would not make any comments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm the rapporteur, so I'd use the priority right to make it easier for us. I'll be very brief. I would just like to remind my colleagues that we have adopted a resolution where we have ordered the government to do 16. 6., which is the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, has just submitted a proposal for a solution for the municipalities for investment and so on. So that's why I'm just pointing it out. We accepted, and I'm definitely going to be 16. 6. to include this item, the implementation of this resolution, in order to obtain this information. And the second thing about write-off, helping companies, not companies. I think it is necessary to realize that, of course, I agree with the emulation, we can then decide how much it is that these are the companies that employ citizens, actually employ citizens, take taxes on the social and health system, pay taxes on dependent activities, and part of those taxes on dependent activities goes to cities and regions, so here I would really consider it. In fact, this is one of the arguments why the institute itself shouldn't be completely damned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u25	Thank you. The Member has withdrawn his point of order, so before I invite another speaker, who is Mr Ferjenčík, I will introduce you to an apology. Mr Kobza apologises from 14:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, first of all, I would like to thank the government coalition very much for adopting the amendment that I tabled yesterday to the Committee on Budgets, where I have just proposed to put a tax return on CZK 30 million. I am glad that the Coalition Members are putting this forward today as a joint proposal. I'm a little sorry I wasn't there with the authors when I suggested it. But copying is free. I'm not mad at them. First of all, I am glad that this matter has been pushed through. Otherwise, I think that if we had not put a stop to the feedback, there would be large tax optimization schemes especially for the largest companies, and that the loss that the Czech state budget would have suffered would have been far higher than the CZK 43 billion announced by the government. Nor am I entirely convinced that the argument is that it is merely a delay in cash flow, given that the measure is proposed as permanent. So I'll also propose the $30 million. But since it has already been proposed by government MPs, I expect their proposal to be accepted. In addition, I also propose an amendment limiting this measure for the next two years, and then we will return to the normal regime. I also propose an accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies I asks the Government to support people who have worked on the agreement and paid insurance by a compensatory bonus or other appropriate mechanism, and II. Asks the Government to support, by a compensatory bonus or other appropriate mechanism, the employees' contributions for which the business is the dominant source of income and which have not received any support yet." We still have these two huge groups of people who haven't received any support from the state. They're contractors who took out insurance. They are self-employed people who have been involved with employment or, for example, with an employment agreement of over 3,000. Even now, there are more cases where the Financial Administration is turning to these people precisely to return the bonus that has already been paid to them. Many of them had no idea he wasn't entitled. The only group eligible for constituencies are people who have that job in the field of pedagogical activity. I'm afraid everyone else has been sharpened. It seems like a terrible injustice to me, and we will continue to fight for this to change. We will also propose an accompanying resolution in relation to the financing of self-governments. We think that the gap in municipal and regional budgets that the government is now doing will significantly reduce investment at municipal level, and that this is a mistake. We will propose CZK 1,100 again for a citizen of the village and CZK 600 for a citizen of the region. We think that this is absolutely appropriate, and it really needs to help those authorities so that they don't have to postpone the investment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u27	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. Mr Stanislav Blaha is next in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u28	Thank you, Mr President. In addition to supporting the amendments tabled by colleagues Bartošek and Kupka, who are trying to compensate for the costs of the budgets of the regions and municipalities in connection with the covido package, I would like to comment, and later, in a detailed debate, I would like to comment on my two amendments. In the first case, I deal with a reduction in VAT for services and goods subject to a rate of 15 per cent, where this shift to 10 per cent will relieve entrepreneurs in a number of sectors. I extend this compensation to other sectors, for example, for air transport or for the services of authors and performers, because these fields were severely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The second objective of the amendment is to simplify the Value Added Tax Act and thus contribute to greater simplicity and clarity of this legislation. In my second amendment, which is tabled under number 5445, I am responding to a shortening of the deadline for sending a refundable excess excise duty on so-called green diesel, where only one specific sector is compensated. However, during the current crisis of COVID-19, it would be appropriate to compensate entrepreneurs on a broader scale. For this reason, I propose to shorten this deadline for all excise duties on mineral oils in general. In this area, in addition to green diesel, the refundable overpayment shall be returned without application within 30 days. The law also did not regulate the time to which the overpayment would be returned in the event of irregularities. This is from the date of notification of the payment notice or additional payment notice. If the amount of the tax is correct, the result of the measurement or measurement shall not be notified. Therefore, in my amendment, I propose to shorten the deadline for the recovery of overpayments in the event of irregularities within 15 days of the date of notification of the payment notice or additional payment notice not only for so-called green diesel but generally for all mineral oils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u29	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Munzar in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, what is mentioned in this House of the Press, the aim of the bill itself is to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on the economy of the Czech Republic. If, from my perspective, the crisis has brought us some knowledge, to all of us, it is the importance and importance of small business entrepreneurs for life throughout the Czech society. Our common goal should be to make life easier for these people and to reduce artificially induced costs, not only money but also time, which must be spent on administrative obligations that the state has burdened them in the past. Our task should be to clear away the various obstacles, sticks, boulders that various governments have put in a difficult way of doing business so that this private sector will stabilize as much as possible. The tax administration is the highest carrier of such bureaucratic burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which cost them time and money. And especially time is, in addition to money, a key and important means of production, because they spend time not only on their activities as such, for which they have income, but they also have to spend a lot of time to get jobs for themselves, but this time does not reflect in any way their costs. And time must also be devoted to these administrative bureaucratic duties. According to many studies, the Czech tax system is one of the most complex in the European Union. For example, according to the World Bank Doing Business study for 2020, the Czech Republic occupied up to 53rd place in the tax payment indicator. And just one of the significant jumps in increasing the administrative tax burden for entrepreneurs is the moment when they exceed the turnover for compulsory VAT registration. And it has been at the level of one million crowns for 16 years. The original effort was to allow the smallest entrepreneurs the opportunity to do business without the obligation to register for VAT precisely in order not to be burdened by such high tax administration. During those 16 years, two things happened when this border didn't move. Of course, there has been an increase in price levels due to inflation, and because of this, turnover exceeds far more entrepreneurs than it originally intended, because their incomes are growing, but their expenditures are also rising in a correlation way. At the same time, VAT management is more complex for entrepreneurs. The inspection report, associated with the gallows deadlines, came new fines and penalties associated with the inspection report. [[13.40 hours]] That is why I want to propose - and I have already proposed this here last year, but I think that now the real epidemic has shown us that it is necessary - I want to propose to increase the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million. I believe that this would help entrepreneurs to make business more attractive, to stabilise the business environment, and also to help the economy start faster. Today, entrepreneurs are supposed to do business and work, and we are supposed to help them set conditions. They are not to deal with administration and paperwork that costs time and money. In a detailed debate on this proposal, I will give some details, but this is the gros of my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u31	Thank you. Yes, the proposal must be presented in a detailed debate. I'll introduce the House to another note. Mrs Levová apologizes from 13.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. And now I beg Mr Skopeček, who is next in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u32	Thank you very much. I took the liberty of dusting off my amendment, which I made repeatedly when discussing previous tax packages, namely an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer. I'll repeat myself as in the remission of the contributions. I think that in today's situation, so that the crisis that necessarily comes with the covid is as short and as low as possible deep, as shallow as possible, so I suggest increasing the basic discount on the taxpayer to increase the net income of individuals, people, employees. It is, of course, a measure that will lead consumers to consume more in today's situation. This means, if this proposal were approved, a minor drop in consumer spending can be expected, which is, of course, an important part of the gross domestic product. And as I've already suggested, I believe it's better to leave the money directly to the people than to collect it and then redistribute it. I'm sure these people know better than they know how to deal with their money. And I believe that at this time, when any reasonable family is simply considering what expenditures they are going to make in the coming months, so when we increase their basic discount on the taxpayer and thus increase their net income to households, this will increase the optimism of these people on future economic development and will certainly increase their consumption costs, which, as I say, will be reflected in higher gross domestic product, after all, even in higher tax revenue collection on the part of the state. You know that's the proposal we're repeating. This is also due to the fact that the basic discount on the taxpayer has not increased since 2008, which means that it has not reflected at all in recent years the growth of inflation and real wage growth, which was relatively high and thus spontaneously without causing anyone to grow the marginal tax rate of individuals. This is due, firstly, to the fact that inflation, of course, reduces nominal deductible, nominal base discounts relatively over time, but it also falls relatively, as real wages of course grow, and the basic discount becomes relatively lower and lower compared to average wages. We have already proposed this measure at the beginning of the coronavirus crisis in the framework of our economic package, which we came up with in March. I am very glad that both the Minister of Finance and the Government are inspired by this package over time. That she copied a number of proposals from the civil democrats, took over, and eventually we agreed with our votes here. This is very respectable and we are pleased that the government is gradually inspired by the economic programme of the ODS. One thing the government hasn't inspired yet, which it hasn't written yet, unlike the others, is the increase in the basic discount that we've had written there for weeks and months. Since she did not copy this issue, we come up with it ourselves through amendments, and we believe that the government, as with the previous ideas and proposals of the ODS, will copy this, inspire itself, and today will vote in favour of the amendment. Since the amendment is, I think, good, it brings money to people, I think people need extra money in today's economic crisis, so let's approve it, increase their net income and increase consumption, and, as I say, we will contribute to the economic downturn. So who wants to add more money to people, who wants to have more money in their wallets, will support the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u33	Thank you. Member He gave us an apology from 2:00 p.m. for business reasons. And now I beg Mr Bauer, who is next in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out the expected problem, which I believe has not yet been mentioned here in plenary with regard to covid, or at least I have not heard it yet, and which we can elegantly resolve in the framework of the proposed amendment to tax laws. The economic downturn and the company's existential problems will also have a direct effect on their willingness to donate to charitable purposes, charity and the activities of publicly beneficial organizations, including social and health services that we have had fatally in recent months, where people have done an incredible amount of good work and which we need to maintain. The financing of many organisations is usually multi-sourced, many of which rely not only on state subsidies, but also on private donations. And that percentage is different, and it's actually ranging from 10 to 90 percent. After the recent wave of solidarity, there will certainly be pressure for savings in the corporate sector, and these private donations will certainly be cut first. In doing so, many donors donate not ad hoc, but would continue to do so in a permanent and normal economic situation. But time is extraordinary, and I think that we should temporarily motivate these stable and responsible donors to continue this support under difficult economic conditions, which will undoubtedly push them to save in the future. I'm sure it's in the interests of not only these companies, but all of us. I therefore propose temporarily for the taxation period 2020 and 2021, i.e. to two years, increase the possibility of deduction of donations from the tax base, from the current 10 respectively. 15 per cent to 30 per cent. I stress that this is a temporary measure and that its aim is not to increase the gifts, but only to maintain them. Of course, we can talk about the amount of this percentage, but I have deliberately chosen, after consulting a number of organizations, a limit of 30%, which I personally consider to be compromise and reasonable. If he went through this proposal, virtually. this amendment and the amendment that I am proposing and which, among other things, has the support of the Association of publicly beneficial organizations, giving it a chance to dozens and maybe hundreds of survival organizations, plus those active and self-sufficient, but not only those who have donors who do not rely solely on the state and state money in normal times, but who can also get support from private sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u35	Thank you. And as the last person to sign up for the general debate, Mr Martínek is at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the two accompanying resolutions that I am presenting to the press. First: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do this 1. 9. 2020 has prepared a proposal for a one-off measure for 2020 which will provide the municipalities with a one-off financial compensation for the loss of income which will be due to them in 2020 as a result of the payment of corporate tax refunds under the so-called "Company Tax Returns'. returnable tax loss, and other changes to laws, at least CZK 1,100 to the municipality and CZK 600 to the region for each resident. [[13.50 hours]] The reverse effect of the tax loss and its fiscal effect threatens the stability of the budgets of self-governments, i.e. municipalities, regions and the capital of Prague, are exposed to an unexpected decline in income for 2020. This decline in income has not again been presented, consulted or duly discussed to the municipalities and regions and the capital city of Prague and completely undermines the certainty of the entities concerned. It is therefore proposed that a one-off compensation be granted to the municipalities, regions and capital city of Prague. [[{\\cHF]] Municipalities and regions are currently faced with challenges such as interest-free lending, planned investment and other expenditure needs. For these and other reasons, it is problematic to interfere with expected revenue. The compensation bonus, which is currently charged as a return on personal income tax, threatens the stability of the budget of self-government, i.e. municipalities, regions and the capital city of Prague, is exposed to an unexpected decline in income for 2020. According to the Act on the capital city of Prague and further within the meaning of the Act on budgetary determination, the capital city of Prague is considered to be both a region and a municipality at the same time, i.e. the sum of the two amounts per capita, i.e. CZK 1,700 per capita. The financing of self-government has many advantages. First of all, the State borrows at lower interest rates than self-governments, municipalities often have a more efficient option of investing in prepared projects, which may be important for the recovery of the economy after the end of the Coronavirus-related measures. The accompanying resolution would be: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 1. 9. 2020 has prepared and launched a credit programme for self-government that will allow all self-governments to borrow interest-free or at most at the rate at which they are able to borrow the State to address the loss of income associated with the Coronavirus. Reason. The compensation bonus, the reverse effect of tax losses and their fiscal effects, other measures and changes to legislation threaten the stability of the self-government budget. The municipalities, regions and the capital city of Prague are exposed to an unexpected decline in income for 2020. This decline in income has not been presented, consulted or duly discussed to the municipalities, regions and capital of Prague and completely undermines the certainty of the entities concerned. On the budget committee of the Chamber of Deputies 27. 5. 2020 Members of the Pirates, Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Tomáš Martínek, proposed to the Minister of Finance to launch a credit program for self-government, where they could borrow interest-free or at least at the same interest as the State can borrow. This could reduce the cost of debt management. As a rule, the State borrows at lower interest rates than the government. If the authorities could borrow at lower interest rates, there would be some savings that would also be positive on the overall state of public finances. The credit programme should be accessible to all self-governments without restrictions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u37	Thank you, too. I have two applications for the general debate. With priority rights as the first President of Jurečka. Before I give him my word, I shall inform the House that Vice-President Hanzel apologizes to us from 14:00 until the end of the day for personal reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u38	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Members of the Government, colleagues, I would like to present some amendments to this press that I and KDU-ČSL are proposing. I believe that in this debate on aid to certain sectors affected by the covid, we should discuss those parameters as to whether some parameters could not be adjusted. I have also decided to make some amendments here, which are related to greater and expanding housing support. It's been said a lot in the last two weeks. I have noted that even government officials are talking about housing as a priority, that they want to move the real estate market, they want to support housing, so I think that we really need to take concrete steps to help make housing accessible to young families or young people who want to start families, etc. Therefore, I would like to put one of the amendments that concerns the reduction of VAT for the construction of both so-called social housing, which are flats up to 120 m2 of area, and also for the family houses where this definition is up to 350 m2 of floor area, which I dare say is the overwhelming majority of the ordinary construction that people in the Czech Republic are implementing and therefore to reduce this rate from 15 percent to 10 percent. I think that this item would also significantly reduce housing costs in the order of tens of thousands, but in some cases in the order of hundreds of thousands. Another proposal I have here in the area of housing is a reduction in VAT when buying apartments. Today, such a paradoxical situation is that if a company buys the apartment for its purposes, it is the VAT payer, so it can then use VAT refunds on the investment, while when a natural person buys the apartment for its housing purposes, it does not have that option. I am aware that European legislation is also here, and since Council Directive 2006/112/EC does not allow Member States to benefit from such an exemption, I assume in my proposal that the Government would open negotiations with the European Commission on the relevant exemption. Therefore, an extended period of legisvacation as of 1 January 2023, is set for the entry into force of the proposal, but I think there has been a lot of talk here in the past and it would be good for the government and the Ministry of Finance to start discussing such an exception. There are states that have different types of exceptions, so I do not see why, with good justification, we should not be able to negotiate such an exception. If housing support really is at our heart and we do not want to take it away just by abolishing the real estate transfer tax, then we need to seriously consider it and do something about it. Then I have specific amendments relating to road tax. I have to say that I was here two months ago making a proposal to reduce the road tax, to forgive her this year. It wasn't accepted. So I come here at least with this proposal, i.e. a 25% reduction for vehicles weighing more than 3.5 tonnes. I would also like us to reflect the very difficult situation of carriers, which not only for trucks, but also for minibuses and buses have huge sales outages, and this form of support would be very quick, effective and effective. Therefore, I would like to propose that in 2020 we increase the discount from 25 per cent to 50 per cent for all vehicles above 3.5 tonnes and especially for mini buses and buses to 75 per cent. Within a compromise and an effort to assess another option in the vote, I took the liberty of making an amendment, which absolutely preserves the original government, which means a 20% discount for vehicles above 3.5 tonnes, but indeed in the segment of microbuses and buses, where from the point of view of the impact of the covid on tourism, these companies will still have a great deal of problems to deal with this situation for several months, so I would like to propose that in the case of microbuses and buses, we make the tax reduction of 75 percent. Then I have two amendments concerning agriculture and forestry. I made that suggestion here last year. He didn't make it quite close then. It's a tax reduction on wood pellets, wood briquettes, firewood. It is a reaction to the catastrophic situation in the woods, to encourage households and people in the Czech Republic to prefer these fuels to use them in domestic heating. They propose a VAT reduction of 10 per cent for these items. Similarly, when we talk about the fact that if we want to have a more varied landscape, a healthier landscape, there is often a public debate about the use of pesticides and the pressure to reduce pesticides, I am here to propose one form of support that would give our customers a greater share of organic food on the Czech market and to use the potential of Czech organic farming, which is in the leading areas of Europe, but if we look at the biofood segment, we are more likely to be on the brink, which means that we have large areas of organic farming, but the farmers on those areas are no longer going to the final to produce organic foods. I think that enough organic food available to consumers would lead to a larger increase in biofood on the market. I would like to propose that organic food should also be converted to a reduced rate of 10 per cent as a form of this way of soil cultivation, landscape management and, overall, the support of people who want to take advantage of the quality of organic food in their diet. So many of these amendments. I think they're making sense. They go the way of supporting people who deal with housing, by supporting more affordable housing, cheaper housing. These are proposals that help entrepreneurs, whether small, medium, or large, who have cars, and leave money in their wallets in the form of forgiveness of part of the road tax. Then these are proposals that simply go into the area of dealing with the catastrophic situation in our forests so that we can make more use of wood pellets, etc., including those mentioned biofoods as support for environmentally friendly management, soil, groundwater, etc. Thank you for considering the support of these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u39	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Thank you to President Jurečka. We continue with the performance with priority rights of the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. I will try to calm down the House, Mr President, for a moment... Colleagues and colleagues, so that we listen to each other so that we do not have to delay in vain and discuss our proposals effectively at this time. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. I want to introduce the four amendments that I have prepared first. I will start with the last one that responds to a palette of other amendments. I remember the performance of the then Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, when the second reduced VAT rate was introduced and there were three items. And not only from him, but also from other members of the government we have heard here repeatedly - that is the final number, don't worry, there will not be a duel at every opening of the VAT Act, which other items move from the first to the second reduced rate. The fight is, of course, taking place all the time, many were successful, often with the support of the votes of the civil democrats, I must admit that, and today the situation is repeating itself. In the Government's proposal, we have the first items to be translated and that is correct, and then there are various amendments, the President Jurečka spoke a moment ago, I saw the proposal in the Committee on Budgets, the proposals of colleagues from social democracy - all heading in the same direction and I feel that this solution is systemic, elegant and simple: to have only two VAT rates, 21 and 10 %. [[unintelligible]] That is one of the four amendments that I have - then I will sign up, but it is House document number 5439. To put it simply, in order to have two VAT rates, 21 and 10, that is, all the remaining items that today have 15 are transferred to item 10. It's kind of maximistic. At the same time, I want to say that we will also support the other amendments if they fail, because they are heading in the same direction - helping someone, that is good, and they are not helping anyone. I will then support the rapporteur if this can be started in the procedure, if we act, the block that is decreasing from 15 to 10, the amendments, from the widest to the narrowest, until the original version of the government remains. The other two amendments are actually the same, they are two options, they differ in amount and it is a matter that should help or encourage the courage of our entrepreneurs to invest. As many of you know, the limit for the depreciation of property at this time is 40,000 crowns, the last time it was changed in 1998. You figure out how long it's been, that's 22 years. And if we just started inflation without anything else, today the limit would be CZK 70,000 only taking into account the sum of inflation over 22 years. The first amendment proposes a limit of 200,000, it is more generous, more supportive business, so that entrepreneurs can invest it in costs and that they will not write it off according to the length of the write-off period. And the second option, compromise, talks about 80,000. It's only 10,000 higher than just counting inflation. At the same time, in both of these proposals, we return to the illogicality that our legislative environment contains, and that is intangible property, when we basically have two numbers - 60 and 40 thousand; Sixty thousand is the value of depreciation of intangible assets today, but if you have a technical assessment, according to accounting regulations last amended in 2014, there is also the 60 thousand, but if you look at tax regulations, Madam Secretary, there is an illogical 40 thousand for a technical evaluation. So in both of these proposals, the unification of that amount is 60 grand, so it's perfectly clear that there's no difference between accounting write-off, virtually. the limit for determining the depreciation of the technical assessment of intangible assets and the tax write-off of the valuation of technical assets. So these are the two amendments that have number 5436, 5437. In fact, the last amendment responds to the already enforced and approved EET Postponement Act. We propose that, in the same diction, the tax accessories that account for interest on late payment, interest on the cut amount, periodic penalty payments, a penalty for late claim of the tax arising from the period from the application of this law to the end of this year should be reduced by 80 per cent so that the penalty for failure to deliver the inspection report by the end of this year is also reduced by 80 per cent and that we extend the period for submitting the inspection report from five to ten working days by the end of this year. So these are specific amendments and now a few general remarks about the law. We have been thinking very much, Madam Secretary, whether we will find reasons for a legislative emergency. It is certainly the case with real estate tax, because if municipalities want to respond, they must adopt a generally binding decree by the end of August, if memory does not deceive me from the time I worked in municipal politics. This means, if this is approved over the next few weeks, the municipalities will have sufficient time to think about, or propose and adopt a change to a generally binding decree. If they don't make it, it doesn't really matter, and it would be about the tax period, any change, in 2022. So there's no doubt that there's a reason, and that was the main reason why we supported it. When it comes to reducing the time of green oil vomit, maybe I'll surprise you, we're in. We were against extending the time to pay back VAT, so it's logical that even here the time is decreasing, it's the right step. In the last two days, it is probably the most common way in these debates to propose such a nice Czech saying loses carryback. I'm not criticizing it, a retroactive tax loss doesn't sound so scientific and worldly, and it's a term used in accounting and auditing circles, so it's okay. And here we pay the tax the other way around. Here in this discussion, we pay a tax for discussing this in a state of legislative emergency. Opinions are quick, often steep, perhaps contradictory, and we lack a longer and more detailed debate, but we will not change that. We're gonna have to make a decision today. The debate is not black and white in this problem, but I do not fully understand the arguments that suggest different limits. And we have no problem supporting, for example. a limit of 30 million, because it is also aid, and especially small and medium, which we are primarily engaged in. But to those who say and fear: aggressive tax planning, large corporations. But we have other Czech terms, loses carry forward, and those companies have five years to do it, and not two years to apply the loss that might be created in 2020, even in the next five tax periods. So it's a little bit shorter now, it's like a downside, there's a bonus against the current situation than ahead. Of course, there is an argument that no one in advance knows how it will turn out in those next tax periods. But do we really think that the first and key parameter and the assignment of the owners of the corporations and those companies of small, large, medium-sized companies is, in particular, not to be profitable? Does anyone really think management will be praised for that if the company doesn't generate profit? Is that the main criterion? Well, I don't think so. And if we don't have the limit in advance, why should we have the limit in the back? I really want to know and do we really think - and unfortunately this is a high probability - that many companies will have a loss this year and that the award will have as much loss as possible to cover any possible tax liability from 2018, 2019? I just don't think so. We can't rule out individual cases, of course we can't. When I am five years old - and I agree with the arguments that big companies can work better with loss and planning tax obligations, but they have five years to plan this well. They can actually choose whether to shift something or not, and whether to increase the operating costs this year or not, and so whether to go into that profit or to apply the loss. [[14.10 hours]] Everyone, and even in that small firm, knows he can work with that loss for five years. What's the effort of these companies? Make money as soon as possible and cover the loss as soon as possible. That's a legitimate effort. And to everyone's surprise, and I'm a former municipal politician, and we have amendments that reveal the loss of the compensation bonus in a way that will not endanger the tradesmen, nor a small s.r.o., but it's only a matter of time when the losses will be compensated - either sooner, we'll go backwards or later. But if those companies are profitable, and we wish they were profitable, to create jobs and let money into the economy, they will sooner or later apply that loss, so sooner or later they will lose 70 percent or I don't know what percentage, 23.58 - cities and 8.92 - regions. When I add it up, some 32-33 percent stays in the government, so sooner or later the state will lose that 67 percent. And that's a good thing, because these companies work here, and we want them to work long-term. Not that at a time when they're doing well, we're going to tax them fast, and at a time when they're not, we're going to say, you're unlucky, you're not making money, you don't have the cotton, as the Minister of Justice says, bad luck, you're done. For the second time today, and certainly not for the last time in these weeks and months, I will be talking about secondary insolvency. It is again one of the tools that can help combat secondary insolvency. Maybe you'd expect me to do this first-plan attack on big corporations, but you're not gonna get it. If I look at this from an economic point of view, but also from the budgets of the state, cities and municipalities, we keep saying and calling on everyone to invest. But the public sector is not enough. There's got to be investments and private-sector orders. And this is a chance for those who have been successful in the past two years, who have held the state budget in the past two years, to pay taxes. It's a chance to help them. And I'm saying the debate isn't black and white. We will also support the government proposal, possibly the reduction to 30 million, because the huge small, often medium-sized group will satisfy it and help them. I just wish the debate wasn't so flattering. I'm saying it's a tax for going so fast. Who is for "no limit" is a great supporter of large corporations and does not think about cities, municipalities and regions and vice versa. It's not like that. We had a similar debate at point 2 actually about where to set the limit, and many of us suggested raising the limit. We'll see how the vote goes, but it's actually the same debate. We're not afraid of the proposal. When we consulted quickly, we are also under a time frame, for example, the Chamber of Commerce, which is very often, and today Minister Maláčová also said so, when the Labour Code, they are not for limitation, at least according to the reports that I was able to obtain. [[Nesroz.]] Indeed, there was so little at that time that I could hardly have all the resolutions, all the grémia could come together and give an opinion on it. Well, I'd like us to be reasonable about it, so that we don't put individual groups of entrepreneurs against each other and show them, I'll help them, not them. The other things that contain the bill are reasonable, although sometimes insufficient as VAT, but the government deserves to be commended for doing so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u41	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava's point of fact is now, and this should be the end of the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I should make a note of my honored colleague Stanjur. He has there an amendment to essentially two VAT rates - 21 and 10, i.e. the elimination of 15%, respectively. the conversion of all commodities, which are in 15% to 10%, in leaps. So I didn't read how much it would do in the state budget in the finals. That's the first thing. I think... Like this. And I would also agree with that, but not in a leap, of course, which is why we only put the amendment we're putting on food, because if we put all the food there, that's by tens of billions. And if we put everything in there from 15 percent to 10 percent, that's really going to be a pardon for the state budget. But otherwise I would, if it was per parts, gradually, I probably wouldn't have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact - Stanjura's colleagues. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u44	[[Nesroz.]] A colleague of Václav Votava by your means. We got the press on Monday, just like you, and don't want us to count it. However, this proposal is not the first time here, it is here repeatedly. Very often, the negative position of the Ministry of Finance, including an estimate of the financial impact on the state budget. That's what I think we're able to track pretty quickly. I'm sure it was in 2018, when the tax change was discussed. The proposal was here, there was a negative position by the Ministry, and I think without checking at this point that there was an impact. We're just per partes afraid of that. If the government had come, and it was very difficult to really count on the opposition, with all those items fifteen there, and it would have to be spread over time, but in one law, I wouldn't have a problem with that. It bothers me that every time the VAT bill opens, we're gonna reschedule something. And some lobbies are more successful, some less, and I don't take it negatively in this case. I think it's a legitimate interest of those who pay it, to reduce it. So I don't want to say these are lobbyists who wanted 15 or 10. In your particular proposal, I said we'd support him because it's a tax cut, but if I wanted to be a troublemaker, I'd say, who's gonna determine what basic food is? [[A note from the benches.]] I'm not exactly to respond to my colleagues' performances or comments. That's the biggest problem with your proposal. If you design all the food, it's clear and we choose to or against it. If we say basic foods, I don't know who's gonna decide. I haven't seen anything in the tax bill listed what basic foods are and what they aren't. It could be a mess, but if it passes, I'm sure the government can handle it. He has my full confidence in this point. I told you we'd support the proposal, it's going in the right direction. Ours is easier, and if you'd supported it, it'd be just fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u45	Thank you for keeping time. I have no application for a general debate. I still see my colleague Ferjenčík. Is Mr. Svoboda also reporting for the debate? [[Yes.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. I only wanted to respond to my colleague Stanjura, why we're fighting for that limit. Yes, we're aware that the limit is up there today, but those companies have to make that profit, which is definitely not clear in the next five years. And we were primarily interested in companies that have taken billions of crowns out of the Czech Republic in recent years, and now we would give them up to CZK 100 billion as a bonus, and it is not certain that those foreign assembly companies will start to make those profits again in the coming years. So that's the big difference. The second thing is, like the government suggested, it's permanent, so there would just be a one-time shift of the entire tax. It's like you're getting a paycheck instead of the first one on the 30th, and that's permanent. Then you'll just miss that one month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u47	Thank you, and we have another factual remark from Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u48	This is where it turns out we're running out of time for a more detailed debate. First of all, I don't think it was billions of crowns in two years, but there is a problem. We, too, at the beginning of the crisis, proposed that we suspend the payment of dividends. And it wasn't a proposal that would reap general commendation. On the contrary, we got quite behind our ears from many interest groups. And I think it's right that when the state is supposed to help massively, the money should stay in the Czech Republic. But this is your objection, or this view, if we had enough time in a normal legislative process, we might be able to write it and we could somehow limit it by the amount of the dividend paid, etc., but all the other programs, even the Antivirus, aren't going to solve this. We could also say that: we will not give anything to those multinational corporations that have raised billions of crowns from the Czech Republic in recent years. I didn't hear that, this argument, but it has the same logic. The same logic, because we want to take care of jobs, is more consistent, but those entrepreneurs need more help. [[14.20 hours]] We are not in such great conflict with Mr Ferjenčík, and we are now in agreement with the delay and improvement of the terms and conditions or the improvement of cash flow in those companies. I just want to say that we're running out of time for this more detailed debate, but we have to decide today, and we respect that. So I tried paradoxically to make arguments in favour of the original government proposal and not to have that black and white view. And I said it's not black and white, it's not a hundred-zero, that I'm 100% right, and it's supposed to be completely out of bounds for everyone, and you're not right. We just haven't been able to write this in a few hours or a few decades. Maybe we wouldn't support these. All right, well, let's call it the most famous Czech company, Skodovka. What category does he belong to? He's certainly paying high taxes. He certainly has a foreign owner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u49	The time has ended for a point of fact, Mr President. Sign up for a point of fact. [[Well, I guess I'll just sign up for the debate. If they're not...]] A colleague of Mr. Svoboda volunteered. No, I didn't. For the debate. Well, in that case, sign in. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u50	But Vice-President Filip was right. I didn't realize I signed up for de facto. So he did the right thing. I want to give an example from škodovka to finish. No doubt they pay taxes, they pay a high corporation tax. Very often, when you have the rankings of the largest payers, you find them there. They have a foreign owner. In fact, I don't know how many dividends the foreign owner paid for the last one. [[unintelligible]] I really don't know if a zero or a billion or five or ten. And if, and I don't want it, if they're lost this year, I don't want it, they might make it, and they won't, but they're gonna have a hard time, let's just say, in the car industry as a whole, we're gonna take them out of help by this law, because we're gonna say, they're the ones who took the trillions. And I think we're gonna find a company that we don't like and that doesn't produce anything, but it was highly profitable, it paid dividends, we'll definitely find that. But I'm always trying to find a positive example, with the risk that the help will eventually end up with someone who doesn't deserve it, rather than helping anyone with the greater risk of not getting it, even the one who deserves it. It's a point of view. It's not like everyone's bad or everyone's good. And I'm an optimist, and I believe that most of these big companies are good and honest tax payers. And when they were doing well, no one cared that they were paying such big taxes. On the contrary. The government, but we too, when we discussed budgets, regions and municipalities, when they discussed their budgets, were glad that they paid and paid the taxes. Now they may have problems, and we may turn our backs on them. That's all. But I'm saying, we're ready to support the limit, it's better than if there was nothing at all, because it's the support and improvement of the cash flow situation of our companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u51	Thank you. I have no application for a general debate. I am ending the general debate. Before I ask for the final words on the general debate, I state the apologies received. Mr Roman Onderka from 14.00 to the end of the day, Mr Jiří Kohoutek from 14.00 to the end of the day and from 15.00 to Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková until the end of the day. The final word of Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, I will be brief, I have been emphasized not to speak for long. Of course, I had a reaction here to the economist group's statement. I really like how some Members do, and I am not really going to name anybody today, when they just want to use the so-called argument, so they stress it. But the fact that you've all received statements from all the associations, and so have I, the associations, the chambers and the unions that unisono sounds in favor of, for example, the recovery of the loss, that's not what I'm saying. Well, I'm gonna stick to the recovery of the loss. I just went through the shift as President Stanjura described him here. I'll probably say for the first time here on the microphone that as far as the recovery of the loss is concerned, I certainly agree that there is no need to repeat the arguments. That's right. For 25 years, in the Income Tax Act, we have the possibility to apply the loss in five years following the measurement without limit. No limit. So if it doesn't go through today, they're going to apply the loss in a year anyway. And now we're saying let's give it two years back, give it back to them, help them give money for liquidity. And we didn't invent it at the Ministry of Finance, we copied it from a number of EU countries, therefore the English expression, because that's just how it is - the world, not just the EU. That's what many countries in the world have. But please, the terms are clear. There has to be a loss, no company wants to voluntarily go into loss, we're not just here in those years when losses were made, I'm not gonna remind you of those years, just 30 years ago. What company would want to go into loss? And there must be profits for 2019 and 2018. And he's already there. It's already measured, it's already admitted to the Financial Administration, the attachments are on the Commercial Register or the Financial Administration. There's no what, what space just for a shift. And I'm originally, we were at the Treasury Department when my colleagues and I put it together, so we had that limit of $25 million. But then there were exactly arguments in expert circles of associations, unions, chambers, people who simply represent entrepreneurs, exactly what was said here by President Stanjura. Just why limit it? Why limit it? Anyway, the company at the time, and there's just a cash flow shift, the company in time is going to apply it the way it's going to match the bookkeeping and accounting for the loss. And we only do it by allowing her to do it now - and she has nothing to camouflage. It doesn't, either it had the profits there in 2018, 2019. You're not gonna cuddle anything in there anymore. Or she didn't have them. And then he doesn't use anything. He gets money, puts it in the liquidity of the firm and then taxes more. So it's a shift in time. So the arguments that it's about to hit public budgets now are odd. If it doesn't happen now, it'll happen in a year and then it won't happen until it's five years old. And once again, on condition that it generates some profit and that it subtracts from it. So I really didn't understand the arguments. I'm tied to some coalition deal, so I'm gonna have to keep it at this point. And I say it openly, no, it was in line with the proposal that the Ministry of Finance finally prepared and submitted to the government. I simply sign the arguments, this time I sign all the arguments that the chairman of ODS Stanjura said to this problem here. Yes, that's exactly what it is. We're going to create an idea here. And still, the $30 million, and I'm gonna stick to what's just been agreed, the $30 million that the companies are gonna use, so they're gonna use the rest in a year. So that's all we're gonna achieve. I really like the impact on public budgets on this loses carryback. It's just a shift in time now or in a year or two or three. But with VAT, where it's permanent, we're okay with that? That's the impact of thunder. But a lasting impact. Permanent. Including Mr Votava's proposal. That's the worst one ever. It may be the cheapest, but it's just that the reduced beer rate that's been the subject of humor and cheer, I'm glad people are having fun, so it would be a walk in the park. We'd just have three rates here at the grocery store right now, and no one would have figured out where it belongs. There's no one to split it up. So something was 21, something 15, something at 10. Of course, it would be, Mr Member, about 8,5 to 10 billion, we are unable to even calculate it properly, and permanently to the budgets of the municipalities. You, too, have been travelling for budgets of regions, cities and municipalities. So it's just the worst part. And watch out, I'm gonna say one more thing. What is the guarantee that this will be reflected in the prices for the final consumer, for the Czech citizen, that they will not keep it chains? Well, none. Just none. So we would take 10 billion regions, cities and municipalities and give it to the chains. Okay, just so we know what we're talking about. Of course, the other proposals are even more expensive, but basically exactly the same. So I won't discuss it any further. Otherwise, when tripartite was, for example, for your information, the loses carryback was basically the only member of the tripartite and it was the ČMKOS, which means the union representative. It's just, it's just on the edge. Otherwise, all the tripartite representatives who were there were for it, well aware of how very, very important it was. [[14.30 hours]] I don't think I have anything to add at this point. I'm just going to support the $30 million, because I'm thinking, it's a question of some kind of coalition agreement. I have to respect her, but I just wanted it to be said that it just doesn't make sense to me after the discussion with the experts and that it would make sense for us not to limit it. It doesn't even make sense for me to be there temporarily. I have studied the benchmark of countries not only the European Union, but all the countries of the world that have this. I've got the chart right here. And it's different, they're countries that have it temporarily, they're countries that have it for a year, they've got it covered, they've got it unscathed, and so on. It's different, but let's just leave it built in. Let's leave it built in as an anti-crisis measure. Let's just leave it there. Mr. President Stanjur, I will not support your proposal for depreciation, but not because I do not agree with it. I will not support him because today, perhaps now, maybe in the morning, maybe in an hour my tax and customs deputy is sending out a proposal to the unions and chambers that the Ministry of Finance will prepare. It's not really about him being opposition, so I'm not gonna support him. It's about being technically perfectly written and discussed. So we're going to write a proposal, and I agree that we have to raise the 40,000, we're going to write a proposal that we're going to put in the tax package of 2021. If we agree on it within the coalition, the Ministry of Finance will suggest that entrepreneurs really need it, these write-offs here, we've been working on it, we'll discuss it with the unions and chambers. The proper tax package 2021 is now at the Government's Legislative Council, so it is being prosecuted, plus it will be set up so that it could be applicable for this year. It's the right step, we have it technically perfectly written, which of course makes a difference when it's written by an expert team of colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. I agree, but I warn you - there will be an impact on public budgets again. We cannot write any tax change that does not affect public budgets. That is why we say, otherwise we cannot, and we are looking for a way, we are bound by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, by 16 June 2020, we are to submit subsidy programmes. We're working on it. So that's all I wanted to say, and I guess that's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u53	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I'm asking if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening the debate in detail, with priority rights the colleague Bartošek is reporting to it. Martin Kupka will be ready... Sorry, in that case, Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, in your closing speech, you mentioned practically all the proposals that fell here, but as well as cleverly arching, you avoided aligning public budgets towards municipalities and regions to compensation, which means you commented on everything, but you did not say how you stood up for this proposal. And that's what I'm wondering, because that's absolutely crucial. As I understand it, you are preparing another proposal that will reach into public budgets. And I can't shake the impression that you just decided to starve those communities and regions, take away their freedom, and then control them in the form of subsidies that are non-predictive, and determine the conditions where, to whom, how. That's where it's headed. Every government intervention goes to municipalities and regions in budgets and takes their money. So I expect you to pay CZK 1,000 for the amendment, which is here in the system under number 5381 and basically solves the contribution to municipalities and regions as a contribution, which is eligible and without conditions for municipalities, to the citizen, in the case of the capital city of Prague it is CZK 2,100, in the case of Pilsen, Ostrava and Brno it is CZK 1,500, and in the regional budgets for each regional budget it is CZK 400. Furthermore, I would like to confess to two amendments, which is 5433 and 5432, which is dealt with by the loses carryback, and in one case, we are fully removing this instrument from this law, and in the other case we are putting a limit on 8 million, respectively in two years at 16 million. And about your closing speech, of course, I quote economists, but I also quote the National Budget Council, which are expert bodies that make recommendations and you ignore them. Yes, I quote them, I honor them, and it is perfectly understandable - and I understand that the chambers and unions agree with this view because they get money through it. I understand both. Once again, I expect you to give me an answer before the vote to whether you encourage the budgets of municipalities and regions to be aligned, because you currently have a tool that meets the technical solution so that it does not conflict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u55	Thank you. Now a colleague of Stanjura, then a colleague Martin Kupka will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u56	I formally subscribe to four amendments, which have in the system numbers 5436, 5437, 5438 and 5439.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u57	Thank you. My colleague Martin Kupka. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u58	I am applying to the amendment, which is under number 5430. I described it in the general debate, concerning the one-off support for self-governing territorial units.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u59	Thank you. Now Mikuláš Ferjenčík, prepare Jan Hrnčíř. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm applying to proposal 5441, 5442 and further to proposal 5458. These are my proposals for the 30 million limit, the time limit for the duration of the measures for two years, and the accompanying resolution for the negotiators and for the CFI to co-operate. I would also like to sign up for Amendment 5434 by my fellow Volný, Mr Onderka and Mr Vostra, which is the same content as my proposal, which I tabled on the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u61	Thank you. Now colleague Jan Hrnčíř. Mr Blaha will be ready. Hrnčíř's colleague? [[He didn't notice his instigation.]] I was about to send you to the end of the enrollment. Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u62	There's too much noise. Somebody's still having fun. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for two amendments, the first one under number 5356, that is a proposal which exempts food services from VAT, temporarily until the end of this year. The second amendment under number 5407 is the limit on the tax loss, where we proposed CZK 25 million. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u63	Thank you. Mr Blaha now, Mr Votava will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u64	I am applying to the two amendments that I tabled under numbers 5444 and 5445.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u65	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to formally sign up for the amendment, which is in the system under number 5410. It concerns a reduction in the VAT rate from 15 per cent to 10 for some of the basic foods listed - I stress the listed ones. They are listed according to the tariff codes. So if the secretary says it's gonna be chaos, then I don't think there's gonna be chaos in it, certainly not like the chaos with beer - beer, jar or stand-up, because it would have to say that even the tariff codes are inaccurate, they don't make any sense at all, and they create chaos. Let me just remember that the Czech Republic has a 10% reduced rate only on draft beer, which is a paradox, it takes 15 percent for bread, although it is said that beer is liquid bread. I agree with that, but I think it is necessary to help the most vulnerable groups, such as seniors, low-income families, so that prices of at least basic food do not grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u67	Thank you. Now Vojtěch Munzar, a colleague of Skopeček will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u68	Thank you. I formally apply to the amendment, which can be found in the system under number 5428. It's the proposal I've announced here - the proposal to double the limit to $2 million for mandatory VAT registration. I just want to add that the amendment also contains delayed effectiveness, because it is necessary to discuss this with the European Commission, but I think that this is not a problem because in 2013, Slovenia negotiated a doubling of its limit within five months, and I think that the pandemic of coronavirus and its impact on the economy are a further argument that the government could use if it wanted to, because it is really only about our decision and about the will and desire to raise this limit. I believe that you could therefore raise your hand and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u69	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Skopečka colleague, I state the apology received by the President of the House. Colleague Řehounek from 14.00 a.m. to the end of the day and from 14.30 a.m. Jan Richter to the end of the session today. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u70	Thank you for the floor. I want to sign up for the amendment, which I justified in the general debate. The amendment is in the system under number 5456 and it is about increasing the basic discount on the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u71	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný now, and a colleague Bauer will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u72	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, I am going to formally sign up for the amendment that I tabled together with my colleague Onderka and my colleague Vostra. It is an amendment, which is under number 5434 and concerns the reduction of the amount of losses that can be applied retroactively to 30 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u73	Thank you. Now, colleague Jan Bauer, Tomáš Martínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u74	I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is in the system under number 5452. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u75	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek will now prepare his colleague Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u76	I will sign up here for the accompanying resolutions under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 5454 and 5455. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u77	Thank you. Now in a detailed debate, Marian Jurečka, so far the last one entered into a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u78	Thank you. I am applying to the amendments that I tabled in the general debate under numbers 5367, 5366, 5365, 5364, 5552, 5411. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-29-ps2017-049-04-003-002.u79	Thank you. And since I do not have another application for a detailed debate, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask, is there interest in the final words - Madam Secretary, rapporteur? This is not the case, so I am ending the second reading of this bill and we will continue. So, as in other cases in a legislative emergency, that is, we will interrupt before the third reading to deal with the amendments. Now we have a point number three in front of us... [[Attention from the diaper.]] Sorry, item number
