ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 64 Members. The invitation was sent by e-mail on 10 June this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jaroslav Holík and a Member of Leo Luzar. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see any other suggestion. I will ask the incoming Members to register with their cards. And at this point, I will be voting on the minutes verifiers - Mr Jaroslav Holík and Mr Leo Luzar. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 1, 91 Members and Members registered, for 84, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Mr Jaroslav Holík and Mr Leo Luzar as the verifiers of the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the proceedings: Babišová Andrea - working grounds, Běhounek Jiří - working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel - working reasons, Birke Jan - working reasons, Bláha Jiří - working reasons, Blažek Pavel - working reasons, Bojko Marian - health reasons, Černochová Jana - working reasons, Čižinský Jan - health reasons, Dražilová Lenka within 16 hours - working reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav - health reasons, Fridrich Stanislav from 12 o'clock - health reasons, hnilička Milan - working reasons, Juránek Stanislav - health reasons, Juříček Pavel - working reasons, kolovratník Martin - health reasons, Kozlová Lenka - health reasons, králíček Robert within 10 hours - working reasons, Levová Jana - health Majerová, Martinů Jaroslav - working reasons, Matyášová Eva - family reasons, Mihola Jiří - working reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana - health reasons, Nacher Patrik - health reasons, Okleštěk Ladislav - working reasons, Pastuchová Jana - health reasons, Pávek Petr - health reasons, Pojezný Ivo - working reasons, Pošvář Jan - health reasons, Schwarzenberg Karel - health reasons, sklenák Roman - health reasons, Staněk Antonín - working reasons, Staněk Pavel - family reasons, Válková Helena within 13 hours - working reasons, Veselý Ondřej - working reasons, Vech Radovan - working reasons, Volný Jan - health reasons, Volný Lubomír - health reasons, Votava Václav - personal reasons, Vrána Petr - health reasons, Committeený Marek - working grounds - working hours - working grounds - Zahradníková hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours of the Mašek Members of the Government: Benešová Marie - working reasons, Hamáček Jan - working reasons, Maláčová Jana until 14.30 - working reasons, Petříček Tomáš - working reasons, Plaga Robert - working reasons, Schillerová Alena - working reasons, Vojtěch Adam - working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - working reasons. With voting card number 17, Mr Holomčík will vote. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 51st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I have here two applications with priority rights with a request for a performance before approval of the agenda for today's meeting. The first is Mr Jan Farský and the second is Mr Ivan Bartoš. So I'm going to ask Mr Farský. The third will be Mr Jurečka. I'll read two more apologies. Mr David Pražák apologizes today between 14.30 and 19.00 due to negotiations in the electoral region and Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar apologizes today from the whole day of the meeting due to urgent work duties within the Ministry of the Interior (?). Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a stage before the approval of the agenda for this meeting. Members with priority rights will be represented. I'm going to ask you to calm down in the Chamber so that we can act. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[The microphone isn't on.]] Sorry, I just turned you on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank all those who signed up for this extraordinary meeting, and I hope that I can thank in advance all those who support the approval of its programme so that we can discuss the eight points proposed today. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] To explain as briefly and perhaps convincingly as possible what led us to propose this meeting, and why it is so important that it takes place. In the Czech Republic, according to hydrologists, we have experienced the greatest drought in the last 500 years. Perhaps many after the 14 - day rains may come to the conclusion that the problem is solved, and we can wave our hands at it and move on, but this really will not solve the 14 - year drought for two weeks. Just look at it when you go through the Czech landscape to those erected fingers of pine tribes that just dried up because the groundwater was sinking so fast that their roots couldn't grow in the falling surface.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u3	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'm gonna interrupt you because I can't hear you. I would ask all Members who do not want to attend this meeting in the Chamber to go into the lobby and continue their talks there, so that we have a calm and dignified atmosphere in this Chamber and we can move forward. I think the point we're discussing is quite serious and deserves our attention. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u4	It's the biggest drought in 500 years and water, and I think we can all agree that we can consider the most valuable thing we have. Not even gravel will replace it, lithium won't replace it, it won't replace it with anything else. There's no life without water. Another number I would like to tell you is that which is based on the measurement of the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, namely that 83.5 percent of underground drilling for groundwater shows pollution. Indeed, groundwater is particularly affected by pesticides and from this group herbicides of those primarily used for maize and rape. But it's not just about water, it's about soil, of course. Erosion alone costs us 10 billion a year. Crowns. Such damage is estimated by leaving the Czech Republic annually with erosion of up to 22 miles. tons of eagle. Part of it leaves with classical water erosion, part of it and wind erosion. [[9.10 hours]] In the last 70 years, soil has lost its ability to absorb water. Why is water absorption so important? Because it slows the passage of water from the landscape and at the same time the soil acts as a filter, the filter that causes the water that falls to gradually release into springs, streams, rivers, fills underground reservoirs, and then we use it for our vital needs. The water absorption capacity of the soil decreased by 40 percent. In 1950 the land was able to accommodate 8.4 billion. m3 of water, less than 5 billion today. m3 and the difference that is, you're 3.5 billion. m3 may act as a difficult number, but it takes 2.5 times the volume of water that holds the entire Vltava cascade, or five Orlík, or it is the sum of all volumes of dams in the Czech Republic. That's the significant water deficit in the soil we have today. And that's just something that needs to be done. It can't be postponed. Now, if we take action, maybe it's a minute before 12, but it's more like a minute after 12. How does the government feel about this? At least from our point of view, not enough yet. For example, the anti-erosion decree has been prepared since 2017 at the Ministry of the Environment, but it has not been approved and put into effect to this day. There are some measures being taken from it every now and then to improve the situation rather than really improve the situation, but that is not enough. Ten billion crowns of annual damage should be a pretty clear reason for us to adopt such a decree as soon as possible. And the money? So we see that in the last two, especially in those hundred billion deficits, they are losing their value, but then we think of the 22 miles. tons of eagle. [[years]] We're just not bringing that back from Hamburg to Bohemia. She's missing. One of the programs of the Ministry of Environment, which is explained by how well we fight against the departure of water from our landscape, is the need for green roofs. And here I come from what the Ministry of the Environment has published. Last year, for the whole last year, the construction of 3 164 m2 of green roofs was supported throughout the Czech Republic. Awesome number! Imagine him in the area. It's like 50 x 60 m, it's like half a football field. And that's the result of a year's effort? That's too little. Finally, the famous dešťovka. If 7 110 Rainbows in 2019 are supported here, it's in the volume of some 30,000 cc's of water. That'll cover 20 hectares of land we lose every day. These are numbers that are just alarming and force us to act. What is another activity of the government, which is persistent, and ultimately in its programming statement is the fight against the reduction of subsidies. How far is it from official government programs? In 2017, the government issued a concept of protection against droughts for the territory of the Czech Republic, by the way, a very interesting material under which each of us would sign, the government signed under it, but it does not act according to it. It also notes this in the position report on progress in implementing the 2019 protection concept, when it states that the implementation of the measure is minimal. There are missing and restrictive legislative regulations and their amendment has not yet been approved. The evolution of water supply is very unfavourable. It may be necessary to approve by the government a binding timetable for the project preparation process and deadlines. These are all the things that are the aim of this extraordinary meeting. I would expect the government to develop this activity, especially after approving it in individual materials, but if it doesn't, it doesn't matter, we're happy to give it a hand, because this is a topic that will affect the lives of our offspring so strongly that at this point you can't really look at the jersey very much. By the way, in this concept of 2017 there are three main reasons why water is disappearing so quickly from the Czech Republic, because it is simply used on large baths by large techniques and agricultural practices are such that it is more likely to be managed in the upper part of the soil, in the upper layer, because it is expensive to plow in depth. It's not always like that. We have many responsible farmers in the Czech Republic who treat the land as their own, even if they rent it, and they really pursue these topics. But unfortunately, it's not most. What is further mentioned is that the problem is that underground water is not retained is the size of the lanes. There is also minimal government activity so far. Yes, for this year it has been approved that the ropes or hunts will be up to 30 hectares in erosion areas and from next year it will be so throughout the Czech Republic. But again, it's too little. What is mentioned there as the third of the three mentioned problems and the fact that water is leaving the Czech soil and the Czech Republic so quickly is drainage. A million hectares of those 4 million hectares of agricultural land are melioroved. Meliorations are not always negative in themselves. Melioration means soil improvement, it's not just drainage. The problem is that over the years, the springs, streams have found such a quick exit from the soil that after the rains, the level will rise quickly again, and that there is no water left in the soil and gradually released and given to the landscape, but also to all of us life to fill the wells to fill the springs to fill the rivers continuously. This is a matter that the government itself notes in 2017, but the steps it has taken to implement this plan are woefully few. We have, of course, touched on this topic as mayors and independents for a long time in the past, because when people run out of water in the well or have no chance to water their land from the stream, because it has dried up, so it does not run to the Ministry of Environment or the Ministry of Agriculture, but they follow their mayor. So the mayors have already been forced to act, so they restore the old ponds in their landscape, clean them up, put the ground together, draw ties. And these are activities where they also divide large ropes through the Project Thousand and one trip, to which hundreds of municipalities in the Czech Republic joined, when those huge ropes, which the government still had no will to divide, simply looked into old cadastral maps, found where their paths historically led, and if they were recorded in the Land Register, they restored the roads to them. Those trips are convenient for everyone, including farmers. They work as a way to operate fields, but they also work perfectly as a combination of individual parts of individual municipalities and eventually work well for walks that are so refreshing not only in the conavir age. For this year we are plunged into the cleaning of ponds with great support and also close to the finalization of the snail contract in cooperation with the Association of Private Farmers, so that it is prepared enough to change the soil qualitatively. What we lack in the anti-erotic decree of access to water, what is actually all written in government materials, but it just isn't done, so we put it into a swamp contract. [[9.20 hours]] The debt contract is a land lease agreement between the owner and the farmer. And he can make sure that the soil is handled as best as possible. Unfortunately, it is often not so, it is under pressure from companies that report that they will not care about it, then they will have the cost. But the importance of the contract can be compared to, for example, the rental agreement of the apartment, which anyone can imagine. When you rent an apartment, when you hand it over, you can see if you have radiators, parquets, doorknobs on the windows, and when someone gives it back to you, you can easily check it out. It's much harder on the soil. If someone gets it for you, you don't see it for the first year, not for the second year, not for the third year. And when you get it back to you and you find that there's nothing growing on that soil because it's turned into a desert where it grows more hydroponically than in some responsible way, it's too late and it's wrong. And that's the tool to help it. So through Project A thousand and one way we try to keep water in the landscape, reduce the ropes, reduce erosion, and then by means of decoy contracts, we will touch on the improvement of the entire soil. The aim of all of this is, of course, quality soil and one of the results of quality soil is that water will be kept in the Czech Republic and there will be no need for additional x dams, which are always a complicated construction. And even from the grand plans of the government, which has introduced 65 of them - ten years since 65 dams were introduced, there are about two of them close to realization. In the next 20 years, maybe five of them will be realized. Yet in the spring, when the drought problems came, she announced that she would plan another 31 for the 65. If you just figure out how many years this construction could take, then by that time, we could have completely different problems. The mayors have stood up to it the way they're used to. He's just actively trying to improve it in his areas, and it's getting better. It's getting better. And I have to say that the approach of farmers with whom we talk about this often improves. They acknowledge the need for long-term management, see that the landscape is changing, suffering, and that it needs to be treated in the best possible way. So the cooperation at the local level works. Where it doesn't quite work, it is simply the Chamber of Deputies, where we have had prints for almost a year that have not been discussed and are not moving too much in the system, while these are fundamental laws regarding water use, grey water, land treatment, but also constitutional water treatment. And it's also a topic that's been hanging on our agenda since last spring, and that's a climate issue. The climate is just changing, and we have to respond to it. We need to think about how to adapt our landscape, how to adapt our lives, how to adapt agriculture. How to prepare for this to make the consequences that it brings as little as possible for all of us. So these are the reasons that led us to believe that it is important to move the eight points of today's meeting further, that the House must not be inactive, that it must not be passive in that it simply is the cork that does not move the laws further. And if you look at that list of hundreds of prints that hang here, it would be hard to get time for them. We therefore decided to convene this extraordinary meeting so that the House would be active in the fight against drought, so that the House would bear its responsibility for water management in the Czech Republic. Thank you for supporting the agenda for this meeting and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, too. With voting card number 21, Mrs Valachová will vote. Apologies to Minister Klára Dostálová today from 10.30 to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová today, for the whole day of the hearing, excused for working reasons, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, and then on Friday 19. 6. for the entire day of the hearing. And I have two more excuses. Mr Jan Richter, 18 6 and 19. 6. due to illness and Mr Martin Kupka for today's meeting day from 9 to 11 o'clock for working reasons. President Ivan Bartoš will be given priority, President Jurečka, President Pekarová Adamová, Minister Brabec and Vice-President Filip will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u6	Good morning, morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would use my right to speak on the agenda of the meeting and point out some important aspects that we should take into account, as we will discuss today the individual points that are in the draft meeting if this is approved. The aim of this meeting is - and I believe that this is also our common goal - to address the problems of drought and lightning floods that we are experiencing now, which are very related to the bad state of our landscape. The Pirate Party is one of the callers, because the government, in our opinion, does not pay enough attention to these problems, and even some of the laws in the House lie or are not discussed quickly enough. With the topic of management and climate-resistant landscapes pirát also ran for the parliamentary elections in 2017 and during that time we presented a number of proposals and some have also pushed forward. Among the leaders, for example, it is a more stringent protection of regional natural water accumulation or advice for more friendly work with pesticides. From the things we have pushed through, they are, for example, elements of nature close to forest management. We also focus on the topics of drought, water, landscape and climate change as part of other activities here at the House, we organize educational events and parliamentary seminars. Under our patronage there was a seminar on the availability, quality and price of drinking water, the financing of climate protection, the future of our forests and bark sludge, or, for example, agro-forestry and cannabis potential. I regret to say that the government often ignores some of our expert conclusions and even challenges them. I'm sorry. It is the work of experts on our side who are engaged in this topic. Even today, we have presented such a document called Water now. It's kind of an extension of our future plan we're dealing with now. It also addresses the issues that we will be discussing in plenary today. It is available quality drinking water. This is a set of measures to protect drinking water and ensure its availability to all citizens. It's an important topic we're dealing with. The other of the four pillars is a healthy landscape. I think it's both the alpha and the omega drought problems and the lack of drinking water and the floods we're facing right now. This section contains a plan for the recovery of our landscape, in particular a proposal for a change in grant conditions for farmers and new standards of management. Of course, our agglomerations are also important. Another area is lively sustainable cities. There we describe how water can be better managed in cities. And the important thing that's been forgotten. The chapter is called Motivated Farmer and is dedicated to supporting people who have decided to manage the landscape in a gentle way. I hope that this proposal, which we have presented today, will also be a guide for the government, how we think and how we think the Czech Republic should go. Now to the individual items of the meeting. I don't want to keep you too long, I'll just be short. Today, we will discuss a series of bills that can, if well grasped, significantly help to address the burning issues of both the state of the landscape and thus drought and the lightning floods. There's a government proposal for a water bill amendment, I welcome it. The pirates have prepared five amendments to it, which are mainly aimed at protecting drinking water sources, using so-called grey water - this is the water that you can use again, which is not biologically contaminated in some way - but also by mapping the meliorations. This is the thing that we have inherited from past regimes, the drainage system, which is now essentially in the landscape, in the way it is, harmful. There are two proposals for an amendment to the Water Act also from the pen of colleagues from STAN. We consider them to be of good quality and will support them. There is also a government draft law on the land office. There is an important part, and let us focus on this - to promote the facilitation of the implementation of land modifications. We see this as very important, it is really necessary to simplify the possibility of making changes in the landscape. Which is so far, if you decide to do that and you have more of those individual plots and you want to introduce some kind of change, bureaucratic hell. We would like to simplify this considerably. I don't want to speak intentionally, I don't want it to be interpreted in some way of expropriation and violent change. The role is supposed to be really coordinating, and the system is supposed to be clear to make this happen. [[9.30 hours]] There are also three proposals for the amendment of the Constitution from the pen STAN, KDU-ČSL and KSČM. I'm a little skeptical about that. I think that the legislation that we now have would mainly like to observe and ensure compliance with it, whether it be the protection of water resources, we have been dealing with the Minister for about two years at the MMR in connection with black buildings, but it is also a need for non-compliance with forest law, that is the fight with barkworm; indeed, his non-compliance has led to barking calamity. The financing of the measures against drought is an important point, which goes through the various proposals and policies of government and government measures. I'm not sure it's enough and the money is flowing in the right direction at the moment. When I look at the Supreme Audit Office's report, it points out that The Ministry of the Environment and the Department of Agriculture aren't handling the drought. What is striking is also mentioned when their actions are fundamentally contradictory. When I give an example, the Ministry of the Environment twists watercourses, while the Department of Agriculture is equal, puts them in artificial troughs. So maybe the SAO would like to focus on these reports especially in the field of individual resorts and learn lessons from this. What I think is important, and again it often sounds from the Prime Minister, who is not here now, but it is certainly a good message for his ministers too - billions. That's what we see in different statements. But if we look at it in volumes, they can't see the investments. What's the reason? Either it's not enough, or they're going the wrong way. When I think of what's going to happen in my head after watching the news, what's the hit, what's the big step in fighting the drought, it's at least the dešťovka media program. I like the project, he's certainly a good project, but from the point of view of the problem, it's more of an additional thing, not a flagship. And the Ministry often presents it this way when someone asks: so what are you doing actively against drought at the moment? I don't think investments that go into that area, and I think they're wrong, are enough. I'm just gonna say some numbers. I am convinced that the fight against drought cannot be realized by moving at a rate of 100 tons and 19 kilometers of revitalized streams per year. It's a report from the Ministry of Environment. If we take what is the volume of agricultural land in the Czech Republic - and I round it up, our colleague Holomčík will know - 4 million hectares, so much is about agricultural land in the Czech Republic. Neither 58 hectares of anti-erosion measures on agricultural land nor 380 ponds from the Ministry of Agriculture's money will return water to the countryside. In the Czech Republic - and this is another number - 740 thousand hectares are strongly to critically endangered soil, which is almost a quarter of the total volume of agricultural land in the Czech Republic. We haven't got 100 years to fix it. We don't have decades, given the way the drought progresses. It is therefore important that our actions are swift and investment is greater and well-directed. At the end of my speech, I'm going to sum up what we think is necessary, and it also precedes the press we're going to discuss. It is essential to proceed systematically and quickly. The state should, as soon as possible, release money in the appropriate amount for measures that can be taken immediately. To sum up, these are measures where I don't need a building permit, where we don't need a complex discussion, the division of fields into smaller parts, as my colleague Farský spoke of, the limits, the small pools, the marshes, the plantings of greenery, the mining of valleys - that's the thing down in the field where the fields meet. It's all important, it's easy to do, it doesn't cost that much, there's no need for complicated bureaucracy and complex processing. We should set up the system in such a way - and when I look at how measures are implemented at the moment - that farmers do not lose on them, but rather make it worthwhile for them. At the same time, it would be good to implement these steps through companies in place, if possible, given the impact of the coronar crisis, this could be an incentive for local companies. It would be a local investment. I think, and that is absolutely essential and can be done by the Ministry - it is necessary to change the land management system immediately, return organic matter to it and prevent it from being destroyed. This means supporting farmers in sound farming ways, promoting more rich crop compositions, good fertilizers and their production. That's where the money should be headed. And I dare say that these should also be the conditions for individual agricultural subsidies. A farmer who does not want to go this way would simply not receive the subsidies, on the contrary, the subsidies would benefit those who have decided to implement these measures. The soil in the Czech Republic is in a terrible state because of our way of farming on a large part of the territory, and if we don't fix it, the water just won't stay in it. At the same time, we need to find out very quickly how we really are about the water, we need to physically map it. In the Czech Republic there are old drainage systems that are not in any databases, they are probably drainage from 1.25 million hectares - to find out their real state and work with them. After all, this is one of the amendments proposed by Mr Holomčík for the Pirates in the Water Law. I'm almost done. We need to figure out the actual state of soil erosion. I said the alarm number, it's registered in the LIS system today, but it doesn't quite match the facts. We need to find out how the streams are in which they can be re-released from those pipes and concrete troughs into the free landscape, and on the basis of all these things - and I hope that the strategy will change significantly - a plan needs to be made which territory needs to be made immediately, where there are some difficult negotiations and what simply cannot be realized, and really, because the urgency is obvious, to follow the path of the simplest things on a massive scale, hence the larger investments first. It is important to positively motivate people who manage the landscape gently - farmers, foresters, water farmers. To reduce bureaucracy, to reduce the number of different controls, and instead to offer a real helping hand, even methodologically, which may be a question of regional elections coming because it is also a question of regions. These things need to be freed up and offered state capacity, motivated by municipalities and farmers. I believe that this House's meeting today will place emphasis on these issues, as well as on the discussion of individual prints, and together we will move this issue, especially by concrete proposals, considerably forward, so that we can help the drought suffer from the landscape from the position of the House of Politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes today from 14:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. And now President Marian Jurečka will perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u8	[[It brings a glass pitcher with gravel, a glass and a sign to the speaker's desk. We won't have a drink with the word "Screen."]] Thank you. Good morning, Mr Vice-President, ministers, colleagues. I took a few of these graphic aids on the subject for my performance tonight. I'm doing this very rarely, but the subject is so important that I think it's necessary. I would probably start with - if I wanted to pour now, this could be the situation in 20 to 30 years for a large part of the population around Hungary's Ostroh. [[It's pouring from a pitcher into a jar of gravel.]] We just don't drink gravel. If, Minister, I could give it to you... [[He's handing over a glass to the Minister of the Environment.]] The minister says I'm not supposed to give it to him, but to the Mining Authority - he's not here, so I'm giving it to a member of the government. However, I think that this is a bit of an illustration of the situation that we are in and that it is really necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to make some substantial legislative changes during this parliamentary term. To appeal to the Mining Authority in a situation where we need to protect the water supply for 140,000 people is simply not enough. That is why KDU-ČSL has taken some concrete steps, and I will illustrate them here, and then I will also talk about what the ideal solution should be. Last year we started collecting petitions among people, and we were actually collecting their views on how they perceive the protection of water, but also the soil. Over 22,000 people signed a petition when they said - we want greater constitutional protection of soil and water in the Czech Republic, because these are absolutely crucial two commodities necessary for life. If I asked the question, "What is the largest reservoir of water in the Czech Republic?"a lot of people would be wondering whether it's Turtle, or if it's lakes after excavated locations in northern Bohemia. [[During his performance, the speaker used a large-format board with lyrics as an illustration.]] But the largest water supply we have in the Czech Republic is land. Agricultural and forest land, where we keep most of the water. [[9.40 hours]] That is why we have also proposed the very minimalist proposal of the Constitution, which consists in changing seven words, where in Section 7 we say that land and water are valuable commodities that deserve special protection, greater than the protection of common minerals, as the Constitution has said so far, and I understand that the constitution's creators had no idea 30 years ago what the development of climate change would be and what access to land and water would be. We were now, just this weekend, also participating in a march in the locality of Hungary-Ostražska and there met several thousand people. And these people have a very clear view of accessing this location, protecting that valuable water supply for 140,000 people. I would like the government not to take this lightly to send a clear message to these people - we will protect this water source and the extraction of gravel sandstone simply does not have a greater public interest at this moment than the protection of this water source. And that the government will also be prepared to change those laws so that in this location, the extraction of gravel sand will simply not take place, that we are clear about what we consider important priorities for the future as a society. We at this meeting, which was also convened by the signatures of KDU-ČSL Members, are not to discuss, or as the Prime Minister said yesterday - it will be a waste of time here. There is a specific program with points that await individual readings, and there are amendments to them, and we can discuss them today. We have tabled several amendments under the KDU-ČSL, both the aforementioned amendment to the Constitution, amendments to the Water Law and also amendments to the protection of agricultural land. In the case of water law, we are clearly saying at the beginning of the law that water, water resources deserve a specific protection regime. And in other paragraphs, we complement several key areas. It has already been mentioned here today, we around one third of agricultural land, about 1.2 million hectares of agricultural land in the Czech Republic, constantly draining without any management. There are even absurd situations where we have locations where the irrigation is running on the surface of the soil, it's irrigating, and there's pipes under it that, if there's any rain, they're gonna drain the water. [[soil]] That is why I have tabled several amendments to this House's press to say first: we want to have a shipping system registered, mapped and incorporated into the real estate register by 2025. Today, landowners often do not know at all that they have a melioration system on their property. Most of them don't really care about her. Then we put the second important point there and we say: the melioration system must be manageable, which means it must not deteriorate the conditions of soil moisture and soil fertility. It must not worsen the leaking of water into the bottom layers and refilling the bottom waters. If this isn't there, let's have the melioration system shut down. It is possible to do this with today's technologies. It's possible to control the melioration kits in a good way, to drive. It needs to be given financial support from the Ministry of Agriculture. That's what I think wouldn't be a problem. Then we also have locations where we can irrigate through the medialization systems very efficiently. It is the most effective irrigation we could have in the Czech Republic. Even more effective than the drip irrigation. And I would like us to put this into the law so that we know that in the next four or five years, we can really move the problem forward in practice to some meaningful solution. It's very necessary. So I would argue that we should be able to discuss these amendments so that we can load them, move the amendment to the water law further, so that this will begin to work. That, among other things, is the answer when I see a fellow Member here, through Mr President, Marcela Melková, who is also a singer, so when she remembers Jan Skácel and his prayer for water, he warned us in the last century, in the last millennium in the Prayer he said "there are fewer places where she used to go for water, where the rope was quieting the thirst where the weather girl lived." I would like us to really take these warnings that we receive in the long run - and cannot be done in one term, I would not be here to blame one minister in the past for not doing it, I was there - which would move further from the point of view of the erosion of soil protection, etc. [[They responded.]] The Minister is trying to continue, but it will not go without the necessary changes to the legislation, it will not go without greater investment. And when we talk about investment, it always ends: we want infrastructure, we want digitalization. But we don't want gravel, we want water. And that's not gonna work without the investments. So let's also remember that when we approve the state budget. And I'm getting to the maybe last area, but where it all starts and then it ends, and that's the protection of the agricultural soil fund. When we were making an amendment to the Agricultural Soil Fund Act here in 2015, I thought that we had set the principle that agricultural land was simply protected if it did not exceed any other public interest. I confess, I was very disappointed to see that even in the situation of last year's lowest unemployment, industrial zones are still being allowed in our country. In the localities of the Czech Republic, where there are enough brownfield areas, when there are even unused approved investment industrial zones, which were supported from CzechInvest. I wonder why we're doing this. So I also took the liberty of presenting an amendment, or also in the form of amendments, in two options, so that in the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund we can clearly say that high-quality agricultural land will not be used for further implementation of industrial zones, shopping centres and so on. What we see in Polabí, what people write to me and say: we go to Hradec Králové, we go to Mladá Boleslav and we don't understand why there are still more and more halls on this best ground in the Republic. It is the locality of Hněvotín near Olomouc in Haná. People knock on their foreheads and say, "What are you politicians doing to make it happen?" Therefore, I am clearly inserting a part of the sentence in Section 4 which says: it will not be possible to build industrial zones and shopping centres on agricultural land of protection class I and II. It is only possible in the public interest, which must be justified in the case of human dwellings, agricultural objects and the like. So please pay attention to these suggestions. We have very little time left. I do not mean that in general and pathetic terms, I mean this absolutely pragmatically and politically from the perspective of this House's term of office. If we cannot discuss these key laws now, or at the latest during September and October, there will be a very small chance that this will be done by the end of this parliamentary term. And then our children, our grandchildren, will ask us what you're doing and what you did in 2020 when you saw that the average annual temperature over the last five years was at least +1.6 to 2 °C each year. If you look at last year in Klementinum, where it is measured the longest in the Czech Republic, the average annual temperature in Klementinum was 3.5 °C higher last year. We are receiving a large number of very warning signals, which if we underestimate, in about 10, in 15 years it will not be a problem of several dozen municipalities where drinking water is carried in tanks for a month, two, three. It will not be a problem for several dozen cadasters, where farmers are in a situation where they have nothing to harvest. It won't be a problem for the most affected places where not only spruce leaves, but where pine trees dry, where beech beech dry, but it will be a problem more than half our territory. Some might argue: these Members are meeting here today, Thursday, we have three weeks above average rainfall. We've got locations of lightning floods. - But please, take a look at the InterSucho portal, information from this Monday. Even in locations where there were lightning floods, the soil layer of 40 cm and more is once again exposed to soil drought. These are really very serious warning signals, and so I would like to intercede for this, let us approve the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting. There are specific legislative proposals that deserve to be discussed. We need a water bill amendment like water, not salt. So please, let's eat it and send it to the third reading. Thank you for your support. For understanding and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Mr králíček cancels his apology, and at this moment, President Markéta Adamová Pekarová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u10	Dear Government, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, I would also like to speak here on the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting, which has been called on the issue of drought. The TOP 09 was one of the parties that joined in proposing and calling it, which is why I would like to ask you to approve the programme and to deal with it. I would like to say first of all that not only drought solutions, but generally all environmental issues, including the fight against climate change, are a key topic for the TOP 09, which is also dealt with by highly qualified experts within our party, such as Professor Moldan, Professor Hruška or Šarapatka and many others. We too have a very clear programme material that has been processing this issue since 2017. It is a memorandum on environmental protection, which solves all problems on about 20 sides, not only water, but all environmental problems, its protection and its improvement. This material is three years old, but in many ways still very valid and current, and in most cases unfortunately not everything that we would like to have been fulfilled is fulfilled in practice. Therefore, there is no need to change too much about it, but it is important that we put these things into practice. I am sure that even from the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Agriculture, perhaps even from the Prime Minister, if he even arrives at this meeting today, we will hear that it is all a priority for him, as well as a number of other topics, but the solution, or practice, is still limping behind these words. The subject of the climate crisis is indisputably the most pressing problem. Even though we've been busy with the coronation in the last few months, it hasn't gone away, and it will also be a problem that we have to deal with together with other states, because it's never enough to deal with one state alone. It is therefore addressed not only at the level of the whole European Union, but all over the world. This is all the more striking if the Prime Minister of this country, in connection with the programme strategies that aim to tackle this challenge and manage it, such as Green Deal in Europe, expresses it as a utopia or expects Brusel to finally forget this strategy and to start dealing with the support of traditional industry, which is often the cause of many problems. I understand that the Prime Minister and other major producers in the Czech Republic need not like certain common European visions, which are currently under discussion at European Commission level, the last time a month ago presented strategy From farmer to consumer, that is, English Farm to Fork, and that is to say, strategies which, as one of their aims, are to address the climate crisis in the face of concrete measures to protect the soil and the environment. When she was represented by European Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans, he said - I quote: The purpose of the Green Agreement for Europe and Strategy From farmer to consumer, it is to create a new system in which nature, food systems and biodiversity would be in greater balance, thereby protecting the health and well-being of citizens, while increasing the competitiveness and resilience of the European Union. That should be our common goal. Simplifies the objective of sustainable food production, which we can achieve by reducing fertilisers and pesticides - it is proposed in half - but also by increasing organic farming areas, 25 percent of organic areas are proposed, or so-called shortening. the production chain of agricultural products. [[Nesroz.]] We are already talking about this but we are also often talking about today's very trendy topic, the topic of food self-sufficiency. We do not consider it right to support it in the form of a quota that should be met by traders, but we consider it right to support farmers, processors and sellers and to promote a very sustainable way of farming. This also has to do with drought and landscape management, of course. We, as TOP 09, therefore consider it essential for the Czech Republic to take a positive position on this strategy. This is still being formed within the ministries, and so I would like to appeal that we join this strategy, so that, even if it can go against the interests of some individuals, even in the government represented, we can find the courage in this to participate in a solution that is for the future several, I would say, even tens of years. The solution to the current crisis, not only the drought, is of course not simple, but it is necessary to face them face-to-face. If anyone here promises that they can be achieved by a simple change of some laws - and those solutions are quick - I fear he will not speak the truth. I think we all realize how complex and connected the problem is, but somewhere it is necessary to start and it is not possible to put these solutions off all the time. The most important, however, is to address the causes, not the consequences, which are then fought at every step. And even those local lightning floods that we are currently experiencing in some places in the Czech Republic are often due to the long unsolved problem of drought, the state of the landscape and the state of the soil. There are several directions that need to be taken. One of the greatest associated with drought is the extinction of forests, and the calamity of the crustberry has made it clear. We need to reduce the size of the holocaust, increase the variety of species so that we don't just have spruce monocultures in the woods. A time ago, when we approved this legislation here, a forest law, we pushed for such amendments as the TOP 09. The Apocalypse of Forests, which can no longer be noticed, is indeed a major problem for dealing with water shortages. However, it is necessary to see even further, for example by adjusting the rules on the management of the state forests, so that the trees are not merely a source of financial gain. This is a topic which certainly also falls within the scope of this issue. We also need to tackle the change in agriculture, it has been said here many times. But the overall thinking about soil, its use, its handling is crucial to this issue. It is often spoken e.g. about ties, limits and other elements in the landscape. We're talking about planting trees, restoring roads, land adjustments. I am delighted to have discussions about the size of the soil blocks, but let me remind you that we were among the first to start this debate, and we are already introducing these measures at municipal level. On the one hand, I regret the fact that the ministries advocate that these elements should be created, that wetlands may be restored, and on the other hand, we can see in practice from local politicians from the same sides that this is not such a priority, and, on the other hand, natural wetlands may be stopped or planned to stop. After all, yesterday, the council in Lysá nad Labem decided on such things - and the wetland, which there is very important for animals, for nature itself, has been approved, and it is precisely the voices of politicians from the parties that are now in the government that have been approved to be concreted. This is a contradiction between what the ministerial level declares, and what politicians from the same parties do in real life. And I guess I don't need to remind the wetland of Breclavsko, but there was a lot of media that wasn't there anymore and that could also be saved and could be maintained in nature there not only for the diversity of animal species, but also for keeping water in the countryside. [[10.00 hours]] However, let us return from municipal policy to the subsidy programmes that are for farmers. They must definitely motivate sustainable management to avoid unnecessary use of all herbicides, pesticides that destroy life in the soil and also weaken the retention capacity of the soil. Let us also talk about the laws that, unfortunately, our government has been terrified of during this parliamentary term, namely the limitation of the support for biofuels. Last year, together with other parties, we have put forward a proposal here that would limit the first generation biofuels. But unfortunately, the government MPs were opposed and the proposal was not accepted. I can promise the TOP 09 that we will try to revive this initiative and not give up during this parliamentary term. Because even that is crucial to solving the problem that we have on the table here today. The proposal to build dozens of dams with which the government has been coming in recent weeks has already been commented here. We're trying to solve the drought by concreteizing the landscape. We really do not want people to have to take water from cisterns instead of their own wells. But not even concrete the landscape and create dozens of new dams, which, by the way, would take many years, rather decades, to solve a major problem. Of course, in recent weeks and months we have dealt with many things with Coronavirus, whether directly with the health aspects themselves, as well as with the effects on the economy that this crisis has and will have, and we are certainly not even close to the point, we are just at the beginning of the whole problem. This fundamental problem, the major crisis that is taking place here, and it has been going on for many years and will definitely continue, is the climate crisis, the crisis that is associated with our natural resources, and this must be given fundamental attention, water protection, soil protection, and, in general, access to our landscape, our forests, fields, etc. The responsible environmental policy is therefore not a matter of one parliamentary term, but it addresses sustainability, the cleanliness of the landscape for many years in advance. Of course, not just for us, but for our children and grandchildren. And I believe that this subject is to be the central one that we will be dealing with and which will become the biggest political theme of these years. As a TOP 09, we therefore believe that the meeting, which we are going to approve today very soon, is of great benefit to the solution. Therefore, on behalf of my colleagues, I would like to ask you to approve its programme so that we have the opportunity to discuss and move forward with individual proposals. Because this is a prerequisite for us to actually put the solution into practice and not merely discuss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, too. I will read three apologies: Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes today for the morning part of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Jiří Kobza apologises today between 11.00 and 23.42 for work reasons. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová today throughout the day for health reasons. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will vote with voting card number 22. And I will ask the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Filip, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I will be brief. On 13. Last year, a year and four days ago, KSČM presented a constitutional law on water protection and we did not get into it for the whole year. We have it as part of the points of this meeting today. Since it is convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Act, we cannot abide by the actual constitutional hierarchy, i.e. first discuss the Constitution, its wording, and then amend the laws on waters and others related thereto accordingly. But it's a good thing we get to it. KDU-ČSL also submitted a draft Constitution, an amendment to the Constitutional Law, and it has been almost a year since it was. I believe that, although the Government has adopted a negative opinion on both proposals, that we have reached at least what the amendment to the Constitution should look like in that year, and I believe that we can help do so at this meeting. After discussing the first reading of all bills, it will be important to find a time hierarchy. This means that we will first adopt the amendment to the Constitution so that we know what the constitutional framework will be. According to this, we will have to extend the time limits for the second reading of other laws so that we are only based on the constitutional framework for the adoption of a specific text of the law, whether it is the Government's proposal for the Water Act, which is here first, or from other colleagues, either from the STAN Club or from others. I am convinced that the negotiations have meaning. It makes sense because it is also our responsibility to continue to protect our water in the Czech Republic. We are in a European divorce, all water flows from us into three different seas, and we must, for our own needs as well as for our neighbours, manage water so that it remains for us, for generations to come, but also for our neighbours. It's our responsibility, and I'm glad we're getting there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u13	I also thank you for your performance and ask Minister Richard Brabec. Minister Miroslav Toman will be ready. I give you my word, and I'll pass the proceedings. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, if it was as hot a topic as most opposition claims, the O.R. wouldn't look like it looks from the opposition side. Honour, then, to exceptions! That may be a bit of a shooting in our ranks, but the meeting was called by the opposition. I don't see a lot of opposition people here. I see some here, yes. So it's also evidence of something. And, folks, if I had heard a lot of you performing here and out of the blue about this topic a few years ago, I would have looked at it differently. The difference between a number of you and me is that I started to deal intensely with the drought that you all are talking about in February 2014 after I joined the Ministry of Environment at the end of January 2014. Not because I was so brilliant and visionary, but because I started listening to experts who said that we had been dealing with floods for decades, but we should have been dealing with drought for decades anyway. Because the floods and drought, as I have said here several times, are only two sides of the same coin. And the coin is called the impact of climate change on the Czech Republic. At that point, of course, let's say it's probably fairer. But believe me, we listen to everyone who comes up with ideas. Because we are facing rivals - nature is not a rival, but it is a challenge, let's say - so we are facing a challenge that is perhaps the greatest in modern human history. We all agree on that. And if we still have to argue with each other about whether we need to do this sooner or in a month, or if it's an ideological issue, like it's not an ideological issue, I'm deeply convinced of that, then we don't even have a small chance that we still have to adapt. Because this climate change mitigation, as in the Czech Republic, is in our hands very, very, very limited, whereas we have the adaptation strategy in our hands to a large extent. And that's why the adaptation is more important to me. And we, in six years or six and a half years today, I dare say that I don't have the banners here and I don't have the hard boards, but our projects are visible in nature and they're visible in the landscape. So many of them are not visible, this is the reaction to President Bartoš, because many of them are underground. That's the problem. He says, "Where's the money?" Well, they're buried underground. Not in some hiding place, but they're in water pipes, sewers, they're tens of billions of crowns, which, of course, aren't so visible today because we take it for granted. [[10.10 hours]] But if you look around our beautiful country today, you drive around the Czech Republic a lot, just like I do, I think you'll be right that a lot of things are changing. Smaller water reservoirs are really increasing significantly. And we've only done 16 or 17,000 concrete water retention projects in cities in the last six years. We do 12 to 15 a day now. I'm not saying that's enough. We've got to go faster, I'm sure. I'm never even happy with myself. But saying the government didn't do anything about it is just a lie. And it's nice to ask those who were here before us in what condition they handed it over to us. What was the status of the projects? If we weren't working on those conceptual documents and those projects, you didn't have the documents you're criticizing right now. Partially justified, because of course, we also have a different idea of speed. But Mrs. Adamová Pekarová here said so, and she was right. This is not about one year of change, we have simply spent over a hundred years here, perhaps 150 years on purpose from Czech countries - I say from Czech countries, because it was still in Austria-Hungary. And I do not want to deny, of course, that there have been visionary efforts by some politicians and undoubtedly experts in these past years to deal with drought, but it has never been conceptual. We started to deal with drought six years ago, we prepared conceptual materials, we made many thousands, I dare say tens of thousands of concrete measures. And yes, you say there should be a hundred thousand or hundreds of thousands. Certainly, there will be hundreds of thousands in the Czech Republic, but we will not change the trend immediately. I can't. Of course, I also answered questions if thousands of miles of watercourses have been straightened over the last 150 years, so why can't we mender them again in the same time. And I'm saying, because we're not in China to say that we're doing this surgery here tomorrow, and she would actually be here tomorrow. But then, of course, it doesn't matter if there are any real estate relationships, that we're going to expropriate the assets of thousands of people. And these are very sensitive topics that we will then discuss in the constitutional law or in the proposals for a constitutional water solution. All I'm saying is, the government hasn't slept. Indeed, she has prepared tens of thousands of concrete measures that we can see today. And, of course, a change in legislation. In response to an emergency meeting, I said that no emergency meeting has solved much, which is the same as the investigation committee, but I'm going to change it a little bit. I am, of course, very pleased that we will use this space, if that is the case, not only for some pre-election debate, what if, and even if I were here, what I would do, but we will focus on concrete proposals, whether government or opposition, because that is the strength, in the debate on these specific things. I think the water law is quite revolutionary, that it actually proposes things that should have been here many years ago. I am glad that we have proposed this water law with Minister Toman, and I think that you, too, have acknowledged with your reminders that the design is correct and the direction is correct. I'm just worried about this huge shortcut that nothing's been done. Well, if nothing had been done, it really isn't possible today to implement the twelve projects a day. Because that little laughing dešťovka - I have a personal friend named Seth Siegel, who is the author of the world's bestseller Be water, the Izraelec, and he said to me, "You've been able to prepare things that took us 30 years in Israel to change people's minds so that we can start talking about it so that we can prepare people for the fact that water is not a matter of course that we no longer live in water welfare. And those are the things that went well. And I'm the last person to resist any criticism here for having something faster, that something should just be stronger. It's a parametric thing, let's just talk about it. But it bothers me when someone says "government didn't do anything" or those statements you probably know because you're just wrong here. And that's not just a phrase. If there wasn't an extraordinary meeting today, I'm sure I'm going to be all over the Czech Republic today, where I'm going to convince hundreds of mayors and mayors, like I do almost every week, when it's possible to leave, unfortunately, because of the coronavirus, we couldn't go out into the field to go into our projects. I would have my vision that by two, three years tops every community, every city in the Czech Republic, and we already have thousands that they have, they have some project from us from the Ministry of Environment and definitely from the Ministry of Agriculture for water retention in the countryside, to Dešťovka. You laughed a little bit about Dešťovka, but she became a symbol, even though we only have 7,000 projects in quotation marks, we'd like to have 50 grand, but it's up to people, we can't force them to do it, we're just creating conditions for people to do it. But we have a large Rainbow for cities and municipalities, already 150 projects. And we'd like every city, every community, to have a project to contain rainwater. That water still falls 60 billion cc's in our territory, 60 trillion liters a year. And I'm convinced that if we manage it well, we won't become a desert country or a half desert country, and we'll just go out with water. All I'm saying is that this government and the previous government, where we started talking about it, have made a fundamental contribution to the fact that it is such a subject. And we started to deal with it, folks, when there was no drought, because in 2013, it was a flood year, if you don't remember. And they laughed at us when we began to deal with the drought, and they said, "What are you doing?" But we listened to those scientists, and we have them in our National Coalition to fight against drought, top dry experts, and we listen to them. And I'm saying again, every advice, every incentive that falls here, so believe me, it doesn't fit, we deal with it. And if we disagree with him, that doesn't mean we reject him ideologically, it just means that we have a different opinion, and it's our responsibility. But I agree that water is the most valuable liquid, after all, we have a lot of it in our blood, and for the Moravák, it's definitely in the slivovitz, and it's the foundation of life. And without water, there's nothing and there won't be nothing. Believe that the government is very aware of this, and not only with materials or banners, but with the specific many thousands of measures that we have today in the countryside and in the cities, it proves that this is our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u15	Thank you, Minister of the Environment. And now, with priority rights, Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman, so far the last with priority rights. Then we'll proceed with the procedure. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u16	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I've listened to a lot here, and I have to say, I'm intrigued. First of all, I want to thank you for the meeting tonight because every time you start talking about drought, it starts raining. Now it's raining in southwest Bohemia, I've been looking at radar and I've been talking to colleagues. For that, I want to thank you for bringing something to the meeting, otherwise I think it's useless, but okay. [[Glee in the hall.]] If you don't mind, I've really been listening to a lot of things right now, and I'm upset because I'm really tired of constantly attacking farmers. A lot of things have been said here. Let me sum it up at the end. But what upsets me is one thing. Someone's telling us to use less pesticides. I would very much like someone to visit Eurostat, which published the material 14 days ago. Most pesticides, two thirds of pesticides in Europe are consumed by Germany, Italy, Spain, France. Just so you know, sales and consumption of pesticides have decreased by 27 percent in the Czech Republic lately. We are given as a model Austria - 57 per cent up. And this is how I can go on. And that's what Green Deal's gonna come out of. That's why I'm angry about it. I don't want our farmers constantly being accused of anything. It's just nonsense. I would like everyone to study these materials - I stress Eurostat. Neither Toman nor the Department of Agriculture faked it, it's Eurostat. Please read this and don't attack our farmers that they are overused by pesticides. For your information, everyone is talking about glyphosate in the European Union. The Czech Republic was one of the first to limit the use of glyphosate in plants used for food purposes. The decrease of glyphosate from year to year in the Czech Republic minus 25 percent. And this is how I can go on. And then I'll sum it up at the end, but I'm really upset about it - a permanent attack. It's not the farmers' fault for the drought, we have a climate change that we need to adapt to. That's the whole story. Please let the farmers attack, whether it's big or small, let's talk about measures, I'm ready for that. [[10.20 hours]] And if you don't mind, just a few words about what the Department of Agriculture is doing. I'll split it into three areas. The first is the detention of water in the countryside, the second will be a water management measure and the third will be a measure in the woods. Everyone here talked about it in front of me, so I'm gonna tell you how it really is. 30 hectares is the maximum limit on the erosion of endangered soils. It's true this year. Please, the people who talk about it, let them go outside. Last time I was out last night, I could see it. If you go to Prague, you'll see it too. From next year this will apply in the territory of the whole Czech Republic. Yes, everyone tells me that's not enough. And I'm asking why no one did it before me. Now you're criticizing it? Nobody had the guts to pick it up. And farmers have to adapt to that. Please criticize what is true. I'm ready for this. I'm ready for the debate. Animal production, other measures, enough organic matter in the soil. I'll say it in a shortcut. We support, and we are not talking about pigs here, we are talking about cattle and other things, and organic matter is also ploughing, using green belts, manure, etc. etc. We do. This is linked very closely to self-sufficiency. The more cattle we have, the more organic manure we'll have in the soil. Please support it. Land adjustments. After my arrival, the methodology changed to land adjustments, and I said that based on the experience they will have with it, a new law will be made for land adjustments. He's here today. I would like to thank you for that, including the amendments. And I'm ready to talk about it. Other measures we're taking, agroforestry. Everyone's been talking about this for a long time. We did this by including agroforestry, trees in the landscape in these titles in the next programming period. The Czech Republic will become the seat of this European organization for three years because we are leaders. Deterioration. 1.1 billion crowns have been allocated. It's been used over the last 200 million years. I know you're gonna tell me that's not enough. Yes, there can always be more, I agree with you. But we can't just support the irrigation. We have to do the retention tanks at the same time. Without the retention tanks, there's nothing to irrigate and it's connected. So we're gonna do these things. We're doing it. Many words have been mentioned here - meliorace and so on. I want to tell you that the study they're talking about, it was in my drawer. This study did not exist. It wasn't ready. It wasn't even entered. As far as this study is concerned, I would like to tell you that in the order of days or weeks tops it will be presented and will be clearly given - a stepbreaker for the next ten years. We do this in cooperation with the Czech University of Agriculture, with Mendel, with FMOP and other organizations. And he's gonna be a perfectly accurate crook. Some may seem ten years long, but it is real what we have to do step by step, who is responsible, and the amount of money will be calculated there. As regards point two - water management measures. Yes, it was mentioned here, only 397 ponds were made. Yes, just. But in a year! In a year! I'm asking how many were done before. To date, as we've progressed, it's 437. And the storage area by the ponds went up 2.5 million cc's of water. Second, water management measures. Connecting water systems. We were the first to have done seven pilot projects with the cost of CZK 700 million, but it will improve the security of drinking water for a million people. A million people! Now 15 projects are ready. But please, the 15 projects aren't a view. We're asking for the money that, if the budget is approved, will be launched this year. There's a building permit, all the stuff and so on. And that's going to involve 2.5 million people in water security. That means capacity increase. The second thing is water tanks, stuff around. You know, I don't like it when someone says it's useless and we don't have that stuff and all that. I even read somewhere that we should plan and protect the water tank territory only if we can't do everything else. That's great. So I just want to say that 52 percent of surface water from water tanks and so on are sources of drinking water for the population in the Czech Republic. 52 percent! And it's the 48 percent that depend on wells, on different notches and so on and so forth. And that's where the water runs out. And connecting water systems means, and I support Richard Brabec, that we are taking time to deepen these wells so that in a very short time we can make the interconnection of water systems possible and the municipalities can join it. The last time yesterday, by the way, we were in a village here in Central Bohemia where we discussed this together. As far as the generator is concerned, there is always a concrete lobby. Great. I just want to say that over the past few years, most of the dams are scattered. So be careful with the concrete lobby. If anything, everybody call the dump lobby or something, but definitely not concrete. I mean, it's not a dam plan. Please let us be precise. It is the protection of territories for future generations so that we can build it if they do not have water and so on and so on and so on. It's not a construction plan. They're protected areas for possible construction. One last thing - Novomlýn's tanks. New Millenian tanks, if we raise by 35 centimeters, which we can't actually reach even close to the level to which it was classified, we get 9 million ccs of water for a few crowns relatively. But it means saving the mud forests and flooding the area plus 5,000 hectares of watering the territory. Watershed, it means a varied landscape, orchards, vineyards, vegetables. As far as the measures in the woods are concerned, it was also said here. For the record, we support the planting of varied mixed forests that will be more resistant to pests. And that's the sentence we're criticized for not doing. So let me just say two more numbers. Last year, foresters planted a record 112 million leaf trees in the Czech woods. 112 million leafy people! And the spruce was planted, please, 36 million. So that's the affair. That's the truth. Last year 34,000 hectares of forest were restored, of which 27,000 hectares were planted. This means 30 percent of spruce, 70 percent of leafy leaves and eats. Next, there's a delay in forestation for five years. It's the natural restoration of the forest. We've authorized the transfer of planting material. Compensation for owners. Compensation for owners has been transferred to support the planting of new forests. And we're giving them the parameters I was just talking about. [[unintelligible]] Last year it was 2.8. Now we have 7 billion planned, including the Forests of the Czech Republic. First time. We also have a new decree, and we are preparing an amendment to the hunting law, so that we can tighten up and hunt some kinds of game even more days a year and at the same time reduce game states. And it will be far more economically feasible, the objectives, and the reduction of administration for hunters. So that's three things. A few more numbers, if you don't mind. It was said with the pesticides - and I just want to say, yesterday we went through the Želivka, a so-called pilot project. More than 12,000 hectares of agricultural land are already protected there. There are 16 subjects involved. It's on a voluntary basis, and it costs 60 million a year. There's more farmers reporting now. It was launched in June, July last year. That means we'll evaluate it. The project's for three years. And this is how we would like to protect the area around water reservoirs and water resources. That's our entry into the environmental measures. I don't want to take too long. I just want to say that we have built 135 hectares of water management measures in the last year and half of the last year, 46 reservoirs per 106 hectares, 58 hectares of anti-erosion measures, only as much as it was given from land treatment, 137 hectares of ecological measures and 412 kilometres of field roads. All the trees planted. So, as far as the subsidy reports are concerned, if anyone's interested, please, nicely. [[He's showing the document.]] I took it, only here are all the subsidies individually listed, how much we've given and who we've given. There are all - municipalities, private persons, legal and physical. So, so much. I only have one request. Do not harm Czech farmers. I'm ready to tell you the numbers. We can't all stick together, please nicely. And let's not divide them into small and large. Divide them into the farmhouse badly or well. And that's the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture, to Miroslav Toman. Before I give the floor to Vice-President Okamur, I state an apology. For work reasons, between 10:30 and 13:00, Marek Benda apologizes. Now, then, Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a series of laws on water ahead. It's understandable. The lack of water is and will probably be the most pressing topic in the future. After all, the barking calamity is a direct consequence of this. As much as the principles of many proposals can be agreed with, some cannot be agreed with. In particular, the amendment introduces an obligation to create plans for the management of droughts and water shortages, which will be valid for individual regions as well as for the territory of the whole Czech Republic. There's a problem with the crust, and we can already see that drought cannot be dealt with by laws on water, and certainly not just by laws. Indeed, here is the primary role of the government to hear experts, prepare an analysis of the state, proposals for solutions, and then implement them. The problem is quite simple, however it doesn't seem. In the long term, the same average amount of water has been hit by 200 years in the territory of the Czech Republic. So the water is. The problem is he's leaving. Of course, it flows through rivers, but the problem is that we have higher water vapors, and that's because we have warmer ones, we have more concrete and asphalt and, of course, we have a low height of the ornament. And now we've started to lose our forest. The solutions are multi-level, but practically feasible. It is necessary to forestate to the maximum, thereby stabilising the climate and increasing water retention. We must support projects to raise the height of the ornament. We need to consider all kinds of dams, because we're going to hold off water here, but the vaporization of the water here is huge and prodigal. Another thing is to build a link with the Danube at least. This is a huge water supply for a part of Central Europe. This project includes coastal wetlands, water retention cops and irrigation systems for surrounding fields. Plus, it's been a proven and environmentally friendly freight and, above all, tourism in Western Europe for decades. I would also stress building decentralization of water self-sufficiency, which means that at least at municipal level water should be returned to the soil or recycled back into the water system and not released into rivers. Of course, there are dozens of ways to contain water in the landscape. These are the limits, the anti-erotic distribution of crops, it is necessary to carry out here in the slopes of damming, repelling, building holes, etc. [[Digging?]] And actually, the solutions are experts from prestigious universities a hundred times described and still no systemically unrealistic. The reason is clear. They touch foresters, farmers, environmentalists don't agree with anything, anti-ecologists do. Unfortunately, everyone is playing on their own turf and blocking system solutions. Government law proposes, among other things, a drought committee. Well, I have no objection to the government creating an analytical advisory body such as the National Council of the Government for the fight against drought. Since the solutions have already been processed by organisations, individuals or universities, it is sufficient that the experts agree on the most basic principles and solutions and let us implement them. On the next level, we have a draft amendment to the Constitution. The proposal does not say anything that is no longer in the Constitution, and it is merely a declaration that the state takes care of the gentle use of natural resources, especially water resources and soil and the protection of natural wealth. On a general level, of course, for the SPD movement, I say that we agree, but in the same logic of you, dear colleagues, I beg the support of our proposal for constitutional right to unlimited justice. As far as water is concerned, I would be much more radical and I would declare in the Constitution that all natural resources, including water, are owned by a state that puts them into use under the conditions laid down by law. Nationalisation or deprivatisation of water is indeed on the agenda of the day and, given that it is also a trend in the West for years, I believe that it will not be resisted even by ours for the Brussels parties. Water is indeed a strategic raw material and its importance will only grow. There is no sustainable situation where a large part of cities and municipalities have stolen it in the past, and very often under scandalous conditions. From here on out, from here on out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-000-000.u19	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur, and since I have no application with priority rights, we will return to the process of approving the agenda for the meeting. Since this is a draft meeting, which is convened on the basis of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure Act, I would point out that under paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 7 of this law shall be decided by the House only on the programme referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. We will vote on the whole draft agenda of the meeting, as presented to the House in writing. I've begun. Since it's not clear what the present is, I'm going to unsubscribe you. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the agenda, as stated on the invitation, in vote number two. That's what I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 2 out of 113 present 112 in favour. The proposal was adopted, the agenda was approved. We will therefore follow the agenda of the meeting as approved. Point number one is
