ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u1	270. Government bill repealing the Senate's statutory measure No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation /house print 866/ - third reading The Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová is already taking up the rapporteur's seat at the rapporteur's desk, and Mr Karel Rais is the rapporteur. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 866/2, which was delivered on 17 June 2020. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 866/3. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He's not interested. So I am opening the debate. Mr Dominik Feri is the first to be entered into the debate. And before the honourable Member comes to the speaker's desk, in order for the fourth or fifth time, I would like to ask you really for peace. The level of noise in the hall is really too high. If you have something to discuss, go outside and allow your colleagues to perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to briefly present the opinion of our parliamentary club on this bill. We have always supported the abolition of property acquisition tax. We consider this tax to be the tax that hits in the most sensitive place, namely on the road to property housing, to own housing, which is often a very difficult target for many people. And when you buy your own property, which is very often the biggest transaction you're going to make in your life, you know exactly what the 4% you're going to do to the state means. You know, for that 4 percent, you could remember the bathroom, the kitchen, that you could go on a well-deserved vacation, that you could buy garden equipment or anything else, because you know best what to do with the money, and you know better than to stand up. From this title, we support this bill. [[9.10 hours]] However, allow me first to comment on the formal shortcomings and then on something that we do not agree with materially or factually. And the most fundamental formal lack of legislative character was the question of accepting the proposal at all... when I understand that the proposal was very elementary, it was not certain how the legislative process would develop, but nevertheless to say that we would cancel the property acquisition tax, and then the month to go over, not to report for it, create some mist and then try to put it out somehow, that it would actually be with the effects of the deposit from December 2019, I do not consider it to be quite good. [[The speaker is silent because of the noise. The President is ringing.]] The public criticized this quite fundamentally, people from practice as well. That means, it's slowed down real estate transactions, everyone's been waiting for what's going to happen, and I'm afraid today - and I'd ask the Minister to keep building it for sure and say that the effects will be coming from December - so there's some way to deal with the chaos. As for the factual shortcomings, these are not factual shortcomings in the sense that the bill is affected by some defects, because it is a purely political decision, it is an arbitrary decision, and we think it should be the abolition of the property acquisition tax without any further. After our trial, it's not fair to tell people well, you won't have to pay 4 percent, but you'll lose interest deductions on mortgages. That means one thing after that. That means the Secretary of State is going to pretend that yes, we've made it easier for people, but at the same time, he's gonna have his hand in their pocket and he's just gonna take the money for the future. We consider it very unfortunate, something that has been so easily silenced, around which there is also a bit of dancing, and many people will be very surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, let us please abolish this tax without further delay. Let's cancel it. Let's keep the deductions, keep the time test in its current five-year form, and don't take the money back from people if we really want to help them. Because if we cancel the deductions, we're going to hit those who get the hardest way to get the housing, they're going to take the mortgage. Do we really want to "only help" them? Do we want to take the money back? We don't think so. Thank you for your attention and thank you to all those who support our amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u3	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u4	Good morning. Mr President, Minister, members of the government, dear colleagues, I must say that when I listen to the Minister and Prime Minister's comments on this proposal, the comment always sounds like the main message: we are increasing housing support. It may seem that way at first glance, but I have already repeatedly warned here in previous discussions that this will not be the case for a large number of people in the Czech Republic. It won't be more support, more housing availability, less housing costs for a large proportion of people, people who are medium-, low-income... [[The speaker was silent because of the constant noise in the hall.]] People who are medium- and low-income, who are quite often - responsible enough - do not build on green meadows, buy older real estate, repair it and take a mortgage to finance the property and the repair, which they often take for quite a long time. So these people will be, if we approve it in the original version that was presented here, these people will be affected, these people will get expensive housing. I was setting an example here last time, and I didn't hear a specific reaction from the Minister. When someone really takes a mortgage, where the price of the property when they buy makes up less than half of the higher mortgage, and the second part is intended for the reconstruction, to repair the older house often enough in the village, this person will be affected by this proposal and his family. It's just that this guy loses more money than what he gets to cancel his property transfer tax. If you count the mortgage on people who take it for 25, 30 years because they're not so socially strong that they can afford to buy real estate in cash or in a short period of time, we're going to punish these people. And I very much intercede for that - there are more amendments, it is not just mine, but please nicely, if we are talking about more housing support, let's cancel the nonsense real estate transfer tax, that is absolutely appropriate, thank you for that, but please, let's keep the form of housing support through the possibility of applying mortgage interest within the tax discount. I have also put in an amendment, which at least extends this process until 2023, which I see as a positive instrument, such as some minimum adjustment, helpfulness even in this difficult economic and economic time. But please nicely, if we want to talk about more housing support, then we can't cancel one very important tool and apply the other and pretend that it's more housing support because it's just not more housing support. I have also proposed a reduction in VAT when buying housing, whether it's houses or flats, or also a reduction in VAT when buying a new apartment, because a natural person, when buying a new apartment, has to pay for it. I have put in four amendments that really lead to the fact that we can talk about this being more housing support than before. But if it goes through the original proposed text, it's not more housing support. It's gonna be more housing support for rich people. Yes, for rich people in the Czech Republic, this government, if it passes in the original version, will provide more housing support. But for the vast majority of middle- and low-income people, it won't be more supportive. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u5	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Mr. Bláha. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u6	My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I would just have one comment about the percentages or the interest. It has one impact, which is clear. That means the moment the state guarantees that it will pay, that's when the service becomes more expensive. I knew it myself now. At the time I asked for state aid under the covid, at that point my interest rate was 2.5, although I currently have another loan for 1.2. It's just that. At the moment when something is guaranteed by the state, immediately, let it be subsidies to solar panels on the rooftops - notice, today you're getting a solar power plant on the roof of the rails than it was ten years ago. Yes, with state aid cheaper, but the final price is more expensive. And it's always a tax for the state to vouch for something. So let's find some other way to help those who want to get a place that wants to reconstruct it, but not by recording banks so they can get higher interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u7	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Votava. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I am with Mr Bláha in the same bench, so it did not give me the opportunity not to make a factual comment either. But I would perhaps add more to my colleague Jurečka, who did not say one important thing, or one important thing, that the first bribery acquisition of the property, the apartment, the family house, the land is now exempt from the real estate tax. So these people don't even care about the cancellation, but they're wondering if they're gonna be able to deduct the mortgage interest paid from the tax base. This is a significant savings for them, which is a significant aid to them in housing, because sometimes it can be hundreds of thousands of crowns according to the price of the property, as they are on the market today. So I have an amendment to that effect. I would also like to ask for support. It's a really strong housing aid. And if we're talking about housing aid, we should... or shouldn't cancel the possibility of discounting interest, interest paid, from the tax base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u9	Thank you and I have two more factual points, first Mr Bláha, then Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u10	I'm sorry, but personally, I really think we'd have a different path than that interest support. And one of the things that I've been thinking about right now is that we could forgive those who get new housing for, like, ten years of real estate tax. It is a matter which would certainly be far more transparent and would not record any groups in terms of benefits. That means we wouldn't be helping those banks or those who lend the money. Let's think about it and find a different form than the one we're proposing, because in the end, we're all going to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u11	Thank you. So, there's been a little bit more factual commentary. First, Mr Jurečka, then Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u12	Thank you. Excuse me, I'll respond to both previous speakers. On the one hand, I think that the good work of legislation and a government MP is not supposed to work so that he can think of something here at the speaker's desk at third reading. That's not how important things can be done for the citizens of this country. If, then, Mr Blá, through Mr President, you have any ideas, ideas for better housing support, please, nicely, you have your Minister here, go to her on time and try to tell her and tell her officials to put it in the proposal. Then specifically what you suggested. Please take a good look, or ask the people in your neighborhood how many people normally pay the property tax for the house where they live in the village, and how much is the savings that Mr Votava spoke of every year in terms of the mortgage deduction. That's, please, an incomparable amount. Or if you want to tell these people that you, as a member of the ANO movement, propose to them as housing support, if you could subtract from the mortgage what they pay on interest, 15, 20, 30,000 crowns, that's simply not an adequate replacement. I very much welcome what Mr Votava said here, he is an important Member who was the chairman of the Committee on Budgets last year, is a Member of the Government Coalition, and please, nicely, if you, too, within the government coalition, the Social Democrats, were able to convince your coalition partner to really support housing. You are called social democracy and you want to do a program for the people of this country, so this as a coalition partner you must be able to enforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u13	Thank you. A factual point - Mrs Langšádlová, then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u14	Thank you for the floor. I won't talk much longer, because most of the time here was said by a fellow speaker. I just came up with the sudden idea of my colleague Bláha - in fact, the tax revenue from real estate tax is the sole income of municipalities, so even for this reason this idea is really more than unhappy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u15	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová - a factual point. Then, Mr Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I think my two previous speakers said what I wanted to say. And just a little heads-up, a little lesson, like the real estate taxes and the real estate taxes. So we're going to cancel the acquisition of the property together with the interest, which is wrong, and the real estate tax is relatively low against the real estate tax, in any case it goes to the entire municipality, and please do not touch it nicely. On the contrary, perhaps it would be worthwhile, and now I have thought, perhaps it would be worth thinking, Madam Secretary, about whether it would really be worth doing something about real estate taxes and at the same time reducing labor taxation and letting more money to people. And if I still have time, then I would like to remind myself that the fact that buyers deduct interest on taxes is also expected by the bank in advance when it decides whether to give the client a mortgage or not. So this can also affect banks' decisions and actually whether the client gets a mortgage. So I'm interrogating myself to keep the credit interest deducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u17	Thank you. Mr. Václav Klaus, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u18	Hello. We welcome the proposal for the Tricolore movement to abolish the property acquisition tax. I was also signed under the original law when the government didn't want it yet, now it wants it. But I am very concerned that a number of colleagues here for populist reasons will achieve that, thanks to the amendments, the law will not be adopted and the property acquisition tax will not be adopted. I'm afraid this place is gonna blow up this way. So honestly, taxes are supposed to be simple, taxes are to be reduced, and all possible deductions and exceptions are to try to remove them from the legislative process. This is a principled position, it may not be very populist, but I really wish that we would deliver to the citizens the cancellation of the property acquisition tax, so this is how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u19	Thank you. We have therefore exhausted the factual points and Mr Munzar is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, Madam Secretary. After the shrink of factual remarks, who can wait, will wait, and I am waiting for this moment, and I hope that I will be pleased that the real estate tax will finally be abolished, at least from 23 January 2018, when we voted here in this eminent House on the proposal to cancel the property acquisition tax for the first time. At that time, however, the government's willingness to abolish was zero. I am glad that after the four failed attempts, because today it will be the fifth, changed, and even the Minister is using some of the same arguments for abolishing the tax as we did all the time. So I can say that our performance here several times over the last few years has not been in vain and many of our arguments have fallen on fertile ground. I welcome, and of course we welcome, the proposal to abolish the property acquisition tax. We came up with this for the first time in the last parliamentary term in 2015. For us, this is the end of this absurd, illogical and unfair tax, which is increasing the cost of own housing by 4%. For an apartment that costs 3 million today, every citizen must pull 120,000 crowns out of his pocket to pay the state for buying a property - from the money that he has already taxed. I have said here several times over the last few years that abolishing this tax will at least partially relieve people who buy their own property, which is certainly not insignificant at high prices of flats. But unfortunately, the government hasn't copied our proposal quite well, and it wouldn't have been this government that wouldn't have complicated the abolition of the tax. And that's the discussed cancellation of tax deductions on mortgage interest, which is a little bit of a joy to mess up the tax on the acquisition of real estate. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] We wanted to cancel the property acquisition tax without any other conditions, because we want the country in which people own their homes. We want a country where people are able to provide housing for themselves and their descendants, and the state should create conditions and assumptions for this. Ownership housing is also a form of property security for me for every citizen, and that is also the reason for abolishing the property acquisition tax. Unfortunately, the government has agreed to abolish the tax after it has done so that people will pay it differently, instead of one-off tax burden, the government is planning its distribution in time. It's kind of a quid pro quo. I have already said here at first reading that in housing the government, in housing policy at all, the government is on the spot, because while the abolition of the property acquisition tax is taking a step forward, it is also taking a step backwards by removing the interest on mortgages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall! Transfer your discussions to the foyer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The cancellation of interest on mortgages is the abolition of the only property housing promotion, the acquisition of ownership housing that the middle class has, because most people are buying real estate on a mortgage. The exchange of one-off tax burdens over time can be a little better for them, because it may not have a single-time tax burden of 4 percent, but it may not always be more advantageous. Even if I count discounting that amount because of inflation in future years. The buyer of new buildings will have a significant disadvantage because the property acquisition tax is no longer applicable to new buildings, but people can apply interest deductions today. At a time of insufficient supply, this is a deterioration in the tax conditions for the acquisition of new real estate. Clearly positive, and this has also been said several times, it is for those who can afford to finance a purchase without a mortgage. And I am very sorry for the Minister's arguments, which she repeated several times here at first and second reading, and that those who pay the mortgage have an unjustified advantage against those who finance the purchase of real estate directly. Madam Secretary, why don't you go outside and tell people, middle class, who, at today's real estate prices, has no choice but to get their own housing on a mortgage, that they have an advantage against those who have the power to buy an apartment without a mortgage. Go tell them you want to cancel the only housing support the middle class has from the state. The middle class that works pays taxes and on whose shoulders it is to pay for this government's decision-making, various subsidies, and on whose shoulders you want to pay huge debts, when this afternoon we will approve a huge deficit budget that has no equivalent in the history of the Czech Republic. This is not the support of banks, as Mr Bláha said here by your means, it is the support of the middle class and the support of the people. That is why we have come up with several amendments. In one we agree with the opinion - and we will support Mr Votava's proposal - to maintain the deduction from mortgages. And we have also come up with other amendments that, for example, maintain mortgage mortgages and reduce the total annual amount to the possibility of deduction of interest. Alternatively, we have come up with a proposal to prolong the transitional period. That, Madam Secretary, was not our wish, it was the hand and effort offered, Madam Secretary, for some compromise. Unfortunately, it turns out that you have zero willingness to listen to our arguments and to negotiate a compromise. Just because you have a majority of votes in the House's current composition doesn't mean you're always right. And I am sorry that you have not listened to our views and our opposition colleagues regardless of the political club and all the amendments you gave a negative opinion on the Committee on Budgets. And like I said, just because someone has more power of vote in this chamber doesn't automatically mean they're right. That is why we will support not only the proposals from the opposition, but we will support, as I said, Mr Votava's proposal to maintain the mortgage deduction, although this proposal is from the Government Member, because we are really concerned about the substance of the matter, not who has the majority here. And I would also like to ask other government Members to really consider the importance of ownership housing. Likewise, to reflect on the fact that the price of flats determines, in particular, their lack of supply, which has not increased dramatically with existing government programs. It was not helped by the Construction Program of the Ministry of Regional Development, it was not helped by very little used loans for young people, which was a great dragoon for this government, and it did not fall on fertile soil. However, what would help to develop housing supply, but also the whole economy, is, for example, a reduction in VAT for housing construction. We also offered you this, Madam Secretary, as a proposal, either to reduce VAT to all apartments, or at least to social housing, or at least to temporarily reduce VAT in order to help the economy. Because it is true, and many economic analyses confirm that one million crowns invested in construction brings three million crowns to the whole economy. And just for comparison, we have 15 % of VAT on social housing, small flats, in Poland 8 %, in France 5.5 %, in Hungary 5 %. Nor will the extension of the tax test from five to ten years you are proposing in this proposal contribute to increasing the housing supply. As much as you're saying, and you've said it repeatedly here, it's gonna lead to more housing access, so the opposite is true. What you said here, and what you have written in the explanatory memorandum, and what your fellow Members said on the budget committee, that is an economically absurd justification, because it is completely untrue. Because - have you ever seen that there will be enough farmhouse, some product in the economy by getting more taxation? Well, that's an economically absurd statement. Moreover, if you look into the reality of the real estate market, those who are quickly shooting real estate on which you were directing your argument today do so within five years and are already counting income tax on real estate prices today. Those who deal with this in the long run, and they are strong investors, so they just count extending the tax test to their portfolio and it doesn't affect the offer of flats. It will only turn out to be middle class, those who, for example, bought at a time of success, one apartment for their descendants for example, and got into some economic problems because of the economic crisis or some personal problems and will be forced to sell the apartment. That's how this proposal extends the tax test. Therefore, I would like to ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, if we are really interested in promoting ownership for the middle class, to consider supporting both my amendments and my fellow Members' amendments, which have one single common objective - to increase the availability of ownership for the middle class. That's really the goal we should all be looking for. Of course, we'll support the abolition of the property acquisition tax. It is a proposal that we have repeated here several times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u23	Thank you. I have one point of fact here, Mr Dolínek. Before he comes, I'll read the additional apologies. He apologizes for reasons of work from 9.00 to 9.45 pm, Mrs Jana Levová apologizes to Minister Marie Benešová today for reasons of work and apologises from 9.00 to 9.15 pm, Mr Feri. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one eye would not remain dry after Mr Munzar's speech. But he repeated one sentence too many times here - it's a middle-class living room. But we don't make middle-class laws. We're supposed to make laws for all citizens of this republic. It is an ODS that destroyed Prague, and not only in Prague, the housing market, rental apartments. It's the ODS that prevented labour mobility and prevented what works here in all the countries you mention. All the cities you mentioned, my colleague, through Mr President, have a larger housing fund than Prague. After your performance, when you had your mayors and when you broke down the housing funds. That is precisely the difference that we need to perceive, which is why I say - I support it to abolish this animosity that we have. We're on the same page. But I don't encourage you to be out here tonight for the middle class to have some demands on something special. I think my colleague Votava named it well in his amendment when he says - let's make laws for everyone, but let's please let the middle class figure it out for themselves and not the way you're proposing here as an alibi law for them and for them alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u25	Thank you and Mr Munzar wants to respond to the debate in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u26	I will not respond to Mr Dolínek's inventions through you, it does not provoke me. I'm just gonna remind him, and maybe he wasn't here at second reading, and I was talking about it, that it's very fashionable now, for example, to criticize the privatization of the housing fund. But those who criticize it forget what condition our cities and communities were in after 40 years of communism. In what condition did the municipalities and cities receive a housing fund. They forgot that it was the privatisation that created the housing market that did not exist until then. Private property was created. It was you today that was criticized by the middle class, on which there is indeed a great burden, the greatest burden and the state budget and taxes. And you forget that because of the privatization of the housing fund, the fact that these people started caring for their property, that they didn't care, the level of our cities went up. Because people have a relationship with the place where they live. And not only to the house, but to your neighborhood. I must say that your colleague Votava confirmed this to me last time at second reading. So please, let's forget about the invectors and let's focus on real housing support for all citizens, including the middle class. And only, Mr Dolínk, by your means, will you explain to me what proposal this government has taken, which you are part of, to increase housing supply. Quite really - not just a peacock statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u27	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Jurečka, then Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u28	I really do not have the ambition here to whistle disputes for the sins of the past between ODS and ČSSD at the municipal level that took place against the housing fund of cities and municipalities. But since Mr. Dolínek here spoke so flamingly, I would just remind him that right now his colleagues are dealing with, for example, Lysá nad Labem, because they want to sell several hundred flats, so if you could just say so, it's not far from Prague, to Lysá nad Labem, to deal with the housing fund as you said here, in the spirit of your social democratic program. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u29	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u30	Thank you. Mr Munzar, through Mr President, I have good news for you. Colleague Honza Birke with the signatures of all club members will present here on Thursday a law that will support housing in cities, municipalities so that it really will be more or less null for the state, but it was also in favour of housing being created. Living, which is available to all and accessible to all. Not just elite groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u31	Thank you. That's all from factual remarks, I hope. Next up, Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am pleased that we are discussing this law here today, and I believe that it will be approved. I would like to remind you that, as of 2018, a pirate proposal has been waiting for discussion to support ownership housing, which was supposed to de facto reduce this tax, with amendments to cancel for most buyers who buy property for their own housing. I hope the government has thoughtful funding for the country when it wants to indebt the country at 500 billion. A year, about 50 thousand. Every citizen's crown. Debts will have to be paid out of something and I would not like to see the tax burden shifted to ordinary citizens. With regard to budgetary responsibility, I propose that the tax would continue to be paid by citizens of third countries outside the European Union without the obligations and rights of EU citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Czech Republic and thus do not contribute otherwise to public finances, and legal persons who will no longer lose the opportunity to deduct the cost of mortgage credit from costs. The adoption of this proposal would maintain an income of around 3 billion. Crowns. In the case of the discounted deductions of interest on mortgages, it should be noted that they can only be used for one mortgage of the property in which the person must live, unlike legal persons who do not have a limit on credit costs, and thus companies will now get to the advantage of ordinary citizens. Those who want to apply the cost of the loan will again go through legal entities. Anyway, I am glad that this proposal is here, I believe it will support ownership housing, and as pirát, we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u33	Thank you. With a factual remark, a Member of the Spaniard made himself known.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u34	Hello, thank you, Mr President, for the floor. A lot has been said at second reading. I would just like to say for the SPD that we will support all the opposition proposals this time, because the cancellation of interest deductions is a really unfortunate issue. We could at least limit it to the amount that we propose in our amendments. I am sorry for all the opposition Members who immediately joined the work and created a lot of good amendments, which, as I say, will support everyone this time. And I hope it doesn't end up like that joke where I said there might be a vote on the opposition proposals en bloc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u35	Thank you. That's all from factual remarks. Let me ask: Mr Skopeček is reporting with de facto or with priority? Normally to talk, from the point of view, okay. In that case, Mr Luzar is next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, let me start by saying one thing. We are at third reading and it is probably unfortunate at this third reading to hold a discussion that belongs to the second reading. [[He speaks loudly to overcome the calls made by Members in the benches, especially closest to the speaker's counter.]] I myself was thinking of applying to the actual insinuations that have been made here, to some of the untruths that have been repeated here, as in this proposal -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u37	I'll stop you for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u38	- like we're going to solve the housing issue here with this proposal. The previous speakers often used the argument that it was the first piece that they had long called for him to solve. But we've been calling here for a long time for a lack of housing. That the apartments are not built, that they are blocked artificially, administratively, and that the housing fund that was here, and as it was said here, is said to be devastated after 30 years, but most citizens of the Czech Republic live and live in cooperative housing, lived in rental, municipal housing. The unfortunate privatisation that the municipal housing fund deleted from the map of the Czech Republic, and here are exceptions and I thank those mayors who resisted and kept the housing fund, which today represents quite a large area of income in municipal budgets and helps to improve these houses and to solve housing, for those on the right, and these examples are here and you can go to cities like Havířov, such as Ostrava-jih, it is an opportunity to look at them when 10 thousand. The apartments remained in the village, when 5 thousand. The apartments remained in the village as these apartments look today. They're in much better shape than the privatized housing funds. Self-government works there, and especially social housing works there for low regulated rents. These apartments do not serve speculation, these apartments are and will be available to citizens of the Czech Republic. [[9.50 hours]] And now we're talking about forgiving the percentages here. Yes, everyone wants to save money. I'm not discussing it. Of course, anyone who wants to get a new apartment. But let's talk about who it's for. And if the percentages are flat, then the savings in Ostrava from the price of the apartment of a million crowns, or from the price in Prague of ten million crowns. Let's talk about whether or not this is a certain regulation of not emptying out the city districts outside of Prague. Let's talk about whether this is a regulatory principle, too, because what we in Ostrava suffer from, what we in the Moravian-Silesian region suffer from, is depopulation. And this depopulation is a much bigger problem for the region than whether someone will pay 40,000 or 400,000 as a property acquisition tax. Everyone should have that option in the lease. I would rather welcome here than the cancellation of this measure and the abolition of this property tax on cooperative housing measures to support rental housing. Three days ago I read an article on how Prague discovers the world and wants to build cooperative housing or offer land for construction, mass construction in the form of rental or cooperative. The most beautiful part of it was that the land had been identified for a few years, but they didn't plan it for five or six years. You simply are not able to accept here in Prague, which is the most pushed and has the highest standard of living within the economy of the Czech Republic to start building new houses, new apartments. But we're dealing with forgiveness of money for people here, I agree, but we're just not dealing with the basics of making housing available. And I think it's a mistake that we start from the end, we don't start from the beginning. That is why I have a problem with this proposal here too, and I do not know whether I will vote in favour of this proposal in a government form, or if I will turn to one of the amendments, but in any case I consider it a solution to the problem of housing in the Czech Republic as a solution from the end and not from the beginning. And I would very much like to welcome the government's take on the fact that it will finally allow massive cooperative construction, massive municipal construction, so that citizens of the Czech Republic can really have that basic human right, the right to live as available and not limited to those who are able to take a mortgage for 30 years, to be indebted to commercial banks and other institutions and simply have to pay back their entire lives. So that they can take the rental housing, too, so that it is available and for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u39	Thank you. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Feri, then Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr Luzar complained very badly that he would not come by. And of course, he's not coming over. But notice what part of the meeting room Mr. Luzar went to, where he sits. He sits on the bench of the KSČM MP's club. This is an MP club that gives tolerance to the government, which has allowed it to gain the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Luzar, through Mr President, when you formed the conditions of government tolerance, why did you not put a new building law in place within a year, which will be discussed on the basis of some technical agreement, where the interests of all the parties involved will be balanced? Why didn't you put this under government tolerance conditions? Why are you crying now that the government hasn't prepared anything, that it won't stop? You could have done something about it. No, you guys were sitting there instead, figuring out what else you could put in there, and instead of really helping people, the only thing you invented for that government besides the others was the taxation of church restitutions. Really excellent help for people! Instead of putting the government in charge and undermining your support by preparing a proposal to build it. I'm sorry, it's just empty talk on your part. You guys blew your chance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u41	Thank you. The next logged in will have to wait a little longer. I have four factual points here. First Mr Adamec, then Mr Dolínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u42	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to respond to what Mr Leo Luzar has said here, through yours, because here he criticizes that we are in second reading, and he is acting first. Plus, the demagogy that was said here about privatizing the housing fund, it really doesn't compare. I think every city has sort of figured it out. But I'll tell you, I'm from a border town where we had five and a half thousand municipal apartments. The state where the apartments in some locations were, it was really worth it and it would be worth seeing the photos, today photos, or records from that time. Thanks to the privatization of the housing fund, and the sensible time we actually gave those apartments to the tenants to start taking care of them, the housing fund went up incredibly. Of course, we've kept some of the apartments for social housing mainly for seniors, and that's how we feel about it. And go check out the apartment fund today. The fact that it does not stop is for other reasons and it is not because privatisation took place within a number of Czech cities. Thank you for your attention. I really couldn't hear it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u43	Thank you. Now the factual point, Mr Dolínek, is prepared by Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u44	I apologize in advance to President Faltýnek and colleagues from YES, they do not like the Prague examples, but please give me a minute. Mr. Feri, through Mr. President, you are holding in Prague a desperate mayor who, by means of his funds and instruments, took all the money out of the Prague budget to build municipal apartments on the Black Most! You are the ones who did not stop by Prague, and without your votes, Mr. Hřib could never have destroyed the construction in Prague. It is you and you have made the grave of building apartments in Prague! You and only you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u45	Mr Luzar, then Vice-President Filip, hastily made factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u46	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, an honored colleague on the right. I'm proud to be sitting in the KSČM stand because I have a clear conscience and clean hands. [[Noise in the hall.]] What did you do here in 30 years to bring the famous construction law into a state that would be applicable in the Czech country? Nothing at all!. [[Very strongly.]] You guys were just dealing with how to sell out what was in here to make money. As for the arguments raised about the housing fund, come and see the city that left the apartments. They're in much better shape today than the privatized ones! Come and see Ostrava-south. I'd be happy to show you around the housing fund! Yes, these people bought apartments very cheaply, these people fixed their front door, they did their internal installations, but somehow the cladding and others are the problem, because those people don't have the money for it! The village has the money for it and it does it. And that's why a community housing fund is needed. And to let these people, the new people, live in a community housing fund. [[let's go.]] And one problem that arose from privatization is that the housing fund is gradually being sold out. It doesn't often include those who bought it, but sell it. And that's how the ghettos come into existence, that's how broken apartments come into existence, that's how problems arise in the villages, when different people move into this empty apartment and house, who just want to be devastated. This is also the problem that caused this, and municipalities do not currently have leverage to deal with it. These are also problems related to privatisation. But don't blame it on the building bill. And I want to make it clear here that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has been very, very intensively engaged in the construction law and has been involved in the preparation of the proposal, which is already on paper today, and can be discussed and I firmly believe that it will help the construction in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u47	Thank you. Another factual point, Vice-President Filip, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u48	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief. I am convinced that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia does not really have to take advice from the TOP 09 or from anyone else on what conditions it will make in its political decision-making. We are a sovereign political party. And, Mr. Feri, through the President, keep the notes. We are a sovereign political party enough not to have to listen to your advice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u49	Mr Nacher apologises between 10.00 and 10.45 for the record. And with the de facto President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u50	Thank you for the floor, good morning. We're here to discuss abolishing the property acquisition tax. To our joy, after we failed five times, it seems that today we could succeed with our proposal, and the debate turned into how the Bolsheviks built great apartments like our beautiful housing estates. I think many cities publish commemorative publications and compare, and there are pictures of what the cities looked like in 1989, 1988, 1987 and what they look like today, and that's enough. So I suggest the comrades buy it, or maybe I'll ask the mayors, there's enough of them, or the mayors to bring in the publications, comrade Luzar, so he can see how the housing fund has changed, so he knows what the houses look like today and what they looked like back then. But let's not talk about whether or not a city privatizes or privatizes, builds or doesn't build. That's the sovereign decision of every council, let's leave it to them, let's not tell them from the Chamber of Deputies, they'll deal with it better. And maybe if they do it wrong, the Communists will win the municipal elections in that town. Of course, I cannot rule that out, although I find it very unlikely. [[10.00 hours]] On this proposal - we support it. The only thing that's the problem is, if you have a law, you should be looking for who's gonna make money on that law, who's the winner, and who's gonna lose. Some of the previous speakers said so. If the law is adopted in a government version without some amendments, those who did not have to pay the tax on the acquisition of the first housing to date will lose, but at the same time they could deduct mortgage interest from their tax base. They're gonna make things worse for them, and that's a mistake. Many amendments remove this mistake, and we, as citizens' democrats, will support these amendments, because neither anyone nor those who have not yet paid the tax should lose by abolishing the tax. Because why would we take away the advantage they've had so far? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u51	Thank you. Mr Onderka, then Mr Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, through you to Mr Luzar. I would be very careful with the evaluation of who, when and how privatized and who had the funds to rebuild the housing fund. It depends on the village how it sets individual parameters. And if I were to talk about the second largest city in the Republic, the housing cooperative, which consisted of tenants, had enough money to get back from the city to do your facades. So if I were you, I'd calm down a little bit. This is also true for ODS colleagues, because I assume that Stanjura's colleague meant the privatisation of the housing fund that I privatized during the period as mayor, and the citizens' democrats voted against it as representatives. So we all have different conditions in different cities, and I therefore support what he said at the end. Let's leave it to the municipalities, let's leave it to the representatives, each of us will decide according to his or her best knowledge and conscience. Let's stop discussing the endless debate and cancel the property acquisition tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u53	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Válek, then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u54	I'm very sorry to keep you, but I have to respond. I really don't like the advice notes. I think that everyone who is my age or older should know that every advice is good and learns from every advice. And through Mr President, I would like to make a comment on Mr Filip. He the representative of the party who always walked, no matter what happened, at the head of the working people, no matter what it cost, should know the people's wisdom "who is not counsel, who is not helping" and should learn from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u55	Thank you. President Faltýnek, then Mr Luzar, both factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u56	Good morning, colleagues. I am very sorry for my speech because it probably does not belong to this issue, but most of you know that since 1990 I have worked at the town hall in Prostějov as an alderman until 2013 and from that since 1995 in the jersey of social democracy. [[Applause from members of the ČSSD.]] Thank you. And I'm proud of it. [[Laughter and applause across the hall.]] In 1995, I enforced against almost everyone's will that we sold 5.5,000 of the 6.5,000 apartments to existing tenants, their housing associations. At the time, it was kind of a trick to actually throw the responsibility for the housing fund at them. Here I would agree with my colleague Adamec's opinion. And if you look in Prostějov today, you won't actually see a single ugly ex-boyfriend, you just won't. You won't. Steps, facades, balconies. And the scam was that we sold it to those people, on average, from CZK 50 to CZK 100,000 per apartment. I'm sure I'd be arrested for it today, 100%, I'm sure of it, but in 1995 it was possible. And it was a wise decision that I succeeded in putting myself through the entire council. I feel like maybe Radim Fiala was a member of the ODS back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u57	With Mr Luzar in fact, then Mr Juránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u58	Thank you for this beautiful tour of the political history of honored colleagues. Sometimes it's good to remember how we started, how we went on and where we unfortunately ended up, isn't it, colleagues? But that's a lot of fun. I just want to respond to what my previous speaker said through you, Mr. Stanjura. Yes, history and beautiful pictures of the history of cities are very informative and it also needs to be compared. Here you will take the history of beautiful cities from 1930, which could be comparable so that we do not take the war period and the postwar destruction and reconstruction of the Republic, and compare it with the 1960s. Look at the statistics on how the social equipment of the apartments looked before and after the war, how it started building massively, how it developed. So please do not compare incomparable. And don't tell me here - and I'll be happy if the mayors deliver my books because I like the history of cities and I look at it. But these statistics clearly speak of the period in which, where and how many flats were built and how people lived, yes, thanks to the communists, thanks to the fact that massive housing construction was supported here. You also had 30 years on your right to support this massive housing project. All citizens can evaluate these results on their own today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u59	Thank you. Mr Juránek, Mr Adamec. That's all there is to it for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I originally wanted to respond to someone else, but I must respond immediately to my colleague Luzar. I think that the most important thing of all are the specific things that we can learn from them and transfer them. The crucial thing is that the apartments in the '60s were in very bad shape. And I dare say, as mayor of the town district, where Juliánov's estate belonged, that we had to remove the faults of the panel structures in which the panels were really clogging them with rags in winter so they wouldn't get cold. And I would very much like you to make sure of that, because it was the first housing estate that was repaired, and we actually repaired it in the way that we improved the quality of the housing that is there, because, for example, the umakart core was in a desperate state. I would be very happy to say that this is the responsibility of the municipalities, and I am glad that Brno has taken a different approach to housing than Prague, because I think it is responsible for working there in some state of housing. And I am very, very committed to considering the support at this point in time for those cities and municipalities that are willing to invest in housing. Because it is very difficult and we are getting into some imbalance here, which then affects not only the city itself, but also the surrounding area. And here I will say quite responsibly, how I am convinced that Prague really has nothing to boast about and that it has to look for a way to strengthen rental housing at the moment, because at this time the city of Prague is in control of 4.5 percent of the apartments, and that is very little. And I think, of course, that this will also affect the overall housing market, that this, of course, also affects the housing price. I will go back to what we did in Brno, not only in the Juliánov housing estate, he was also a colleague at the other end of Brno from Kohoutovic, that we managed to create enough housing in the given area, and thus the housing price decreased accordingly. Therefore, I ask that we help the municipalities in this matter and that we can -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u61	Oh, I've let go of your time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u62	I, of course, thank you for the extra time, but here is more of a request to look for support for rental housing as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u63	I apologize to Mr Adamc for waiting a little longer. I'll keep an eye on him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u64	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I'll admit I've given up because my colleague Luzar can't say, can't say, and can't say. But, of course, it's a little different. And when Mr. Faltýnek here was talking about how they privatized, it was actually privatization, it wasn't selling apartments to tenants, so I think that was the right way to go. You would really be locked up today, my colleague, because European law applies here, and the price of the usual today is such a base that prevents any privatisation. But speaking of Onderka an apartment fund in Brno, I'd like to say that I have a long memory, too. And I've actually been at City Hall since 1994. So I will tell him, when we privatized the housing fund in the form that Mr Faltýnek spoke here, not only the Civil Democratic Party, the Czech Social Democratic Party, but also the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia voted in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u65	These are all factual remarks at the moment. Mr Skopeček and then Mrs Kovářová came forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u66	Thank you for the floor. I waited patiently, even though my tongue and finger itched, to press the button and also to express myself. However, I welcome, of course, the abolition of the property acquisition tax. I see it as a way to ease the path of ownership. I'm gonna go back a little bit to the debate that ran here during the deed. I really think that ownership leads to responsibility, care for its property and its surroundings, and that the abolition of property acquisition tax will not only have a purely positive economic effect, but that it will also have positive social consequences, because simply ownership housing is a motivation for it, leads to the fact that we live in a nicer world, that we live in nicer cities. And the privatization of the housing fund was, in my opinion, one of the very important positive parts of the transformation in the 1990s, when for the first time there was a relatively strong layer of owners who could not de facto own anything until then. And I am not too surprised by Mr President or colleague Dolínek or colleague Luzar that he is so annoyed that people have acquired property, because he also leads people to become more independent of the state, more independent of any benefits and especially of left-wing socialist politicians who would like to have people in their hands and control them. Of course, property housing gives people greater freedom. And that's so annoying to our leftist politicians. I therefore welcome the abolition of property acquisition tax. It will motivate itself to take a place of its own, to make this journey easier. I'm just sorry that, as is the case with this government, while he wants to leave money in one pocket, that means he will cancel the real estate tax, but at the same time he wants to take more money out of the other pocket of the same person, by abolishing the deduction of interest on the tax base. It's kind of like, we give you a discount, but we don't want it for free. Somehow get the discount, dear citizens, pay up. I would like to call on the honourable Chamber of Deputies to really, if it wants to promote an easier way to own housing - and, of course, no one is fooling themselves that it is one small pebble in the mosaic, that the availability of housing will not solve it, that it is necessary, above all, to deregulate building legislation and spatial planning. But I'm sure the traditional recipe of left-wing politicians doesn't apply, which means to regulate the market as much as possible, freeze the market, de facto make it impossible to build, and then deal with their left-wing recipes. I'm sure that's not how we're gonna get to the available housing. We will get to the available housing if we increase the offer of flats by simplifying the construction legislation so that there is more construction in the Czech Republic and there are more flats in the offer, which will, of course, lead to a lower price and a larger group of our fellow citizens will be able to afford their own housing. So please, Madam Secretary, don't offer a discount for people having to buy it with other expenses, by ending their opportunity to deduct mortgage interest. If you want to leave money in one pocket by canceling the property acquisition tax, don't pull it out of another's pocket at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u67	Thank you, too. One factual point - Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u68	Mr President, I am surprised that Mayor Černochová will not perform here. And now it's not like it's negative, it's not like you have to express yourself. But at least Prague 2 has witnessed exactly what it looks like when someone buys an apartment building, doesn't care about it for 20 years, and no one has the strength to do anything about the Italian owner to take care of the house. They're houses. Fortunately, now it's not as bad as it used to be. But houses living, houses falling apart, everything. This means private property is not automatically better ownership. I think it is a good thing what was said by my colleague Faltýnek and others. The mix. The mix is very important. You got something private, you got something rental, you got something cooperative. And the mix makes the quality of life in the city. Not that you're just gonna shove it all over someone who doesn't care about notabene. And really go to the streets of Prague 2 and you will know which house who bought it. In fact, the very well-known street in Prague is Provaznická. Go check it out. That's seven broken-down houses on the Bridge exit. And it's only because someone doesn't care, and someone leaves dozens of flats lying around just because it's cheaper for them not to worry about it. So please, let's not have this dogma here, that what's private is good. I think the mix is right. I'm in a very good mood today because we agreed that anyone who buys an apartment shouldn't be affected by another, that's the tax. That's what I think is the positive of today. And that further, I think that Honza Birke, and I repeat it again, will open here thanks to his proposal, which he will present on Thursday, and we will have space here in September and October to talk about whether we are able to fulfill the B, and so that even those who are not able to live here today can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u69	Thank you. I have here two factual points that want to respond - President Stanjura, then Mr Václav Klaus. And Mr Skopeček, did he also claim to be factual? Okay, after Mr. Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u70	So I would like to ask my colleague Dolínek to devote ourselves to what we are discussing. Each of us lives in a city, and we could walk around one by one and give examples of the city that was privatized, what didn't get privatized, what didn't work out, what didn't work out. But I already said that. If we had a bill here that would determine that there must be only private property or such, I fully understand his comment. But we're talking about abolishing the property acquisition tax. And I ask everyone to save their good or bad examples from their cities for community policy. The communal elections will be up to 2022, so it's a little early to campaign. The county doesn't build anything, the campaign is close, but as far as I know, the county doesn't build any apartments, they don't have the competence to live in, unlike cities and municipalities. So let's stick to the merit of things, because each of us can come and say who voted for it in that town, how it turned out, how many houses are pretty, how many are ugly. But it doesn't make any sense, and it has nothing to do with the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u71	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Klaus, then Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u72	Hello. I'm gonna say almost the same thing, actually. Mr. Dolínek, what is private is automatically better. That's where we differ. But we can talk about it here for hours and hours. That's why you're in another political party. Now, let's get to the law on abolishing the property acquisition tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u73	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u74	I will respond to my colleague Dolínek through you. I don't have to look at Prague 2. When I stay in Prague during the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I live in Prague 2. I chose this neighborhood for the perfect mayor. It's one of the nicest parts in town. [[Mrs Cernochová is standing at her desk nodding her head. Laughs in the hall.]] But that's not what I wanted to talk about. If I do not live in Prague, I live in Malé Hořovice or in Lesser Hořovice, tens of thousands, where there was also privatization of the housing fund. So in both cities we can see, and it is across the Czech Republic, that where flats that didn't look too good came into property housing, and let's face it, under very advantageous conditions for citizens of the Czech Republic, the apartments have simply increased their quality, people have started taking care of them. What the housing estate looks like today, whether in Prague or in smaller places, is simply incomparable before the privatisation took place. And, of course, those people will invest only in the property that is theirs, and they will care more about the property that belongs to them, which they are developing and which they may pass on to future generations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u75	Thank you. That's all from factual remarks. Radim Fiala's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u76	Thank you. Allow me briefly only to this law. I have to speak for the SPD because, of course, the SPD has in its long-term program "family first, cancellation of property tax" as one of the points and we are very happy that it will happen. I feel like it's a happy day, not just for us, but for all the citizens of this country, when a tax is abolished. Whatever the tax, it's always a happy day. And I am convinced and hope that even in the future, much more taxes will be abolished. And especially for young people, because we do all this for young people. They don't have a chance to get a place, they don't have a chance to pay for it. And the abolition of the property acquisition tax is, after all, a way to make it easier for them to get the apartments so they can live. And I am convinced that it is extremely important for young families to live in. But what's a bit of a problem, and what spoils this joy, is that the government, on the one hand, is canceling the real estate tax, on the other hand, taking the money again by canceling the deduction of interest on the construction savings and mortgages. So the government is really acting like a smart hobby. On the one hand, he gives something to people, on the other hand, he takes it away from them again, so it's zero-zero. So I can say for the SPD that we are happy and we will support the abolition of the property acquisition tax, on the other hand we will not support the cancellation of interest on mortgages and construction savings and, on the other hand, we will support all opposition proposals that cancel the cancellation of interest on mortgages and construction savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u77	Thank you. Briefly a few apologies. Mr Navrkal apologized between 9.00 and 9.10 for personal reasons, Mr Výborný apologies between 10.00 and 10.30 for professional reasons. It is registered for the debate from Mrs Kovářová's seat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, for the Mayors and Independents' Club, to give an opinion on this proposal. I must say that we certainly welcome the abolition of the property acquisition tax. We welcome this, although again there is a bit of an aftertaste, because of the fact that this cancellation could have happened earlier. The opposition parties across the opposition spectrum have proposed the abolition of property acquisition tax several times. At that time and today, the Minister, asking why he did not support these proposals, answered that he had to behave budgetaryly responsibly. And so I ask, if she is now coming up with a proposal - and from that I can see - to abolish the property acquisition tax, then did she become budgetaryly irresponsible? So much for the edge. It is also quite often used to argue that this proposal will make housing cheaper. Yes, partly. On the other hand, if housing demand, apartments, houses, land is growing, of course, prices are rising. And the solution - several times it has been said here and we say it from the beginning - is to support rental housing. This expands the supply and you can satisfy the demand. But, of course, in this case, it is necessary for the state to cooperate with municipalities and cities. However, the cancellation of the property acquisition tax reminds me of the discount under the slogan "I don't want a free discount" On the one hand, you cancel the tax, on the other hand, you cancel the credit interest write-off. And at a time when families often have a mortgage, they have children, the deductions are quite high, the interest is high, and certainly in those first few years or ten fifteen years it would help them to pay back the mortgages. Let me respond to my colleague Dolínek. My colleague, Mr Dolínek, through the President, has said in some contemptuous way that the deduction of interest on the loan is helping the middle class. And I'm asking -- well, why not? It is the middle class that buys its own housing, cares for children, has a high tax burden, etc. etc. So why don't you help the middle class? On the contrary, the state can help the weaker ones, and it can help to make rental housing available, but, of course, with the help of the State. We are now a little in the way of voting. We fundamentally disagree with the abolition of interest write-offs on loans. On the other hand, we fundamentally agree to abolish the real estate acquisition tax. That is why I am saying that we will support this proposal, but we are fundamentally opposed to the abolition of interest write-off on loans. And we will firmly believe that the Senate will approve such an amendment that lies here today, there are several that will leave the very write-offs and return it to the House. And I will hope firmly that some coalition parties will reconsider whether they would not support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u79	Thank you. That was the last application for a third reading for this moment. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and at the same time hand over the management of the meeting so that we have one procedure during the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u80	Once again, good morning, honourable Members. Let's keep going. The debate is closed. I'm asking the secretary if he's interested in the final word. No. The rapporteur? Not either. We will therefore vote on the amendments. When my colleagues have settled down and there will be enough peace, I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to speak to the various amendments and to comment on them before the vote. [[Ambassador Rais is ready at the microphone.]] Just a moment, Mr rapporteur, I will ask colleagues and colleagues to settle in their seats, so that there is sufficient peace here, given that we will decide in each vote. [[Still a lot of noise in the hall.]] I'll ask my colleagues on the right for some peace. Mr rapporteur, please take your word for it, let us know the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u81	Thank you. I would like to present the budget committee's resolution of 24 June, which contains, of course, the procedure. On the one hand, the Committee notes that a number of amendments have been tabled, about 16, concerning both the amendment to the Real Estate Acquisition Tax Act and the amendment to the Income Tax Act contained in the Government's proposal, as well as the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, which was not included in the original draft, and therefore recommends that amendments be grouped into logical groups and sub-groups as follows: One. The first group would be amendments containing a change to the Senate's legal measure on real estate acquisition tax. Second group -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u82	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace! You have before you the rapporteur's report on the procedure for voting. It's not exactly easy, so please take it easy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u83	Thank you. The second group of amendments would be proposals containing amendments to the Income Tax Act, which would be divided into sub-groups: Firstly, 2.1 - Amendments to the deduction of interest on mortgages. Then sub-group 2.2 - amendments to the exemption of income from the sale of real estate not used for own housing, i.e. so-called Time test. Thirdly, it is 2.3 - other amendments containing amendments to the Income Tax Act. A group 2.4 - Amendments relating to transitional provisions and effectiveness of Art. III and IV of the Law. And then there is the third group of amendments. These are proposals that contain an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. Basically, the Committee on Budgets is presenting a procedure that I have essentially discussed with the legislative department, and the legislative department has proposed a change of procedure. I hope it's more formal, but it needs to be included here. Firstly, under point 2.1, which is the deduction of interest on mortgages, there is an amendment under the number E1 of colleague Potter and number E2, which is essentially, as I said, a deduction from the tax base of the amount relating to interest on credit. Legislation proposes that E1 and E2 should always be voted as a whole, or be unvoting as a whole, and, from this point of view, drop paragraph 7 in the vote in the budget committee resolution, where only the E1 vote is discussed. That's the first one. So it's about bringing together the designs of my colleague Hrnčíř in one. The next proposal in this group concerns C1, which is the proposal by Mr Feri, because this proposal by C1 is exactly the same as the proposal by Mr Votava, who basically said his opinion here a moment ago, and therefore the amendment by Mr Feri is unvoting as a whole, when we have fun, we will no longer be voting by Mr Votava. Once again, under point 2.2, it is Mr Feri's amendment, when C2, which is the exemption of income from the sale of real estate not used for own housing, either we recommend that it be voted or unvoting always as a whole, and that is why paragraph 15 of the vote in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets will be omitted because the vote on C2 will actually be taken above. And in this group, Mr Skopeček B1's amendment, when it should be voted or not always voted as a whole, is still under paragraph 10 for the vote of the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, and also item 11 for the vote in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, will be launched. So the point is, my colleague Skopeček here extends the period of exemption from sales revenue from 10 years to 7 or rather shortens. So this is about this change in the amendment. In the 2.4 group, which are transitional provisions of the law, it would, on the contrary, be proposed that the vote under point 2.4 be divided into two options depending on the outcome of the previous vote, namely the vote on Amendment 5692, which is Mr Munzar, which will be voted as a whole if no amendment is adopted which leaves a deduction of mortgage interest. If this amendment had not been adopted, Amendment B3 would have been voted. And then, as regards Amendment G7, which is Mr Munzar, when he has point 3 there, when it is essentially a one-year mortgage deduction, there will be a vote if an amendment is adopted, which will be left to it - the deduction of mortgage interest. That would be the end of these groups. And at point three, which is the exemption of housing units from VAT, so there is the voteability of Amendment A2, which is Mr Jurečka, is conditional under point 21 by not accepting Amendment G8, i.e. Mr Munzar. So we would essentially include these changes in the procedure. And now, if I read the whole procedure, then the first group, there is no change, we will be voting there as an amendment to my colleague Martínek, which is the maintenance of the tax on the acquisition of real estate and the exemption of individuals who are citizens of the Czech Republic or of another EU Member State or of another EEA State. And if this proposal is not accepted, then a colleague of Mr Hrnčíř E3 would vote, which is the exclusion of any public aid in connection with COVID-19 for joint-stock companies, which will split shares in the profits of shareholders residing or based outside the Czech Republic. It is considered by legislation to be an sticker, but it can only be voted if the previous proposal by my colleague Martínek is not adopted. That's the first group. The second group is amendments to the deduction of interest on mortgages. That is where the legislation has been chosen, and the Committee on Budgets has agreed to the amendment by Mr Votava on the technical basis that it is best worked out from all identical proposals, so we will vote on it. And if it is adopted, the amendments by Mr Munzar 5687 are no longer voted in favour of the collision, both variants, then colleagues of Mr Hrnčíř, i.e. the amendment, which we put together as under number 5450, then Mr Munzar's colleague, i.e. Amendment 5692 - in addition to proposal 3, and to Mr Jurečka's amendment, on the ground that they are completely identical to the Votava proposal. And then, for the same reason, the amendments by Mr Kovářová 5720 and Mr C1 are unvoted, which is Feri, which is 5362, and Mr Hrnčíř - again 5451 and again one of those subvariants by Mr Munzar, who is under the heading 5728 and 5691, and also lastly by Mr Jurečka 5316. These are simply amendments which are identical to that of practically identical or content identical to what Mr Votava has and, depending on the outcome of the vote, a vote would be taken. When Mr Votava, Amendment 5698, is not voted, if it is not adopted, then it is necessary to vote essentially on the amendments I have said, that is, Munzar 5687 in variant A, which is the maintenance of the deduction of interest on mortgages and, at the same time, the reduction of the amount that can be applied to 200 thousand. crowns a year. If this amendment is adopted, then the G3, Munzarův's other proposal, that is the B variant, the Hrnčíř 5450, then Munzar 5692 again, because his proposal has already been adopted, and the Jurečka 5317's proposal. If the proposal of Mr Votava and neither G3 is adopted, that means Munzar in the variant A, that is 5687, then we will vote G3 in variant B, which is maintaining the deduction of interest on mortgages and at the same time reducing the amount that can be applied to 150 thousand. crowns a year. [[10.40 hours]] If this proposal is adopted, then there are no longer amendments which are held under the letter E2, that is 5450 - colleague Hrnčíř and G7 - colleague Munzar, that is logical. And then, my colleague Jurečka, this is A4 - 5317. If Mr Votava's proposal is not adopted and the proposal of Munzar, variant A, variant B, is not adopted, then we will vote to Mr Hrnčíř in whole, the one we have under the letter E2 - that is Amendment 5450 and it concerns maintaining the deduction of interest on mortgages and, at the same time, a reduction in the amount that can be applied to 100 thousand. crowns a year. If this proposal is adopted, then there are no more amendments to be put to the vote under the letters G7 - that is 5692, which is Munzar. And designs 1, 2, except 3. And a proposal from my colleague Jurečka A4 - 5317. So there's going to be a change against the procedure of the budget committee. We propose to drop point 7 - that's the E1 vote because we've merged the hrnčíř together. Group 2.2 - there are amendments to the exemption of income from the sale of real estate not used for own housing, that is the time test. There we would be the first to proceed to the G1 vote, which was Mr Munzar - 5685. It concerns the proposal to maintain a five-year time test and the possibility of investing in housing needs. If this proposal is not adopted, then there will be no more voting on the other amendments, namely Feri C2 - 5457, and B1, which is Skopeček - 5723. If the proposal of Mr Munzar G1 - 5685 is not adopted, then the amendment of Mr Feri C2 - 5457 must be voted, which is the maintenance of a five-year time test. If this proposal is adopted, then we will no longer vote on the other amendments which are under the heading B1 - 5723 - this is as a whole. And Mr Skopeček has a second amendment 5724 and Mr Jurečka has an A5 - 5714, so that will not be voted on. If Mr Munzar G1 - 5685's amendment is not adopted and neither is Mr Feri C2 - 5457's amendment, then Mr Skopeček B1 will be voted, which is a 5723 changer, where it is about extending the time test to seven years and the possibility of spending resources on housing needs as a whole. For this reason, we would then launch point 11, because here we have essentially merged the proposals of Mr Skopeček together. Ten. If C2 is not adopted, which is Mr Feri - 5457, then Mr Skopeček B2 will be voted, which is Amendment 5724 - the exemption of real estate sales revenue and the possibility of spending part of this income on housing needs. If this one is not accepted... If the C2 is not adopted, this colleague, Feri - 5457, then we will vote on the Jurečka amendment, which is a 5714 amendment to the transitional provision on the time test, to allow for the housing needs and income from the sale of old real estate not intended for housing. Now we're at point 12...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u84	I understand, Mr rapporteur. I shall ask the House once again for peace. Please follow the newsletter. It must be seen that there are indeed a number of complications for us to adopt a law in that variant, which will not only be correct according to the majority of the House, but also feasible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u85	The problem is that there's about 16 changelings that have different connections to each other, and all variants have to be read here. I can't say if there's anything more likely or unlikely. So I'm reading all the variants that are theoretically possible, so I'm sorry. Point 12 - colleague Munzar. That is Amendment 5686. And Mr Munzar wants to extend the time to spend on housing needs by a year. Then we would have dropped point 15 because it was originally part of that amendment by Mr Feri, because we would have voted on him as a whole. And I come, thank God, to Group 2.3 - other amendments containing amendments to the Income Tax Act. Here in the 13th, the proposal is made by a colleague of the Španěl, who is led as d. It is a print of 5453 - an increase in the limit for the exemption of occasional income over 40 thousand. Crowns. And we will get to Group 2.4, which is the amendments to the transitional provisions and the effectiveness of Art. III and IV of the Act, where the whole new vote is proposed instead of the original vote under point 17. So this 17 right here is going to look like this, in two basics, actually. [[It's very busy in the hall!]] Firstly, the option of voting if the deduction of interest on mortgages is not maintained, i.e. the option that Mr Votava will not be accepted if I simplify it - House printing 5698, and neither will Mr Munzar - 5687, which is G3 variant A and G3 or variant B, and neither will E2 - 5450. It is therefore necessary to vote G7 as a whole, which is, in turn, Mr Munzar - 5692, to extend the transitional period for the deduction of mortgages by one year and to postpone the effectiveness of the article. III and IV of the Act for one year. If it is adopted, the amendment under letter B3 - Mr Skopeček - 5722 is no longer to be voted on, for reasons of identity and under letter A4 - 5317, which is also the same. If Mr Votava is not accepted and even Mr Munzar is not accepted, then the B3 vote is required, which is the press under number 5722 - delaying the effectiveness of the Art. III and IV by one year, and he is a colleague of Skopeček. When it is adopted, the vote on Amendment A4 - 5317 shall no longer be taken. And the next step will be if the G7 is not adopted, which is Mr Munzar as a whole, or B3, which is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u86	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House again for peace. I would like the individual groups to be dissolved and colleagues and colleagues to sit in their seats so that there is much more peace here so that we can begin the vote at third reading. Please continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u87	Thank you. So we're at the 16th point. If neither Mr Munzar G3 as a whole nor Mr B3 is adopted, which is Mr Skopeček 5722, then we will be voting for Mr Jureček A4 - 5317, extending the transitional period for deduction from mortgages by one year. And we come to the option of voting if the mortgage interest is retained. So this is the option, when the proposal of a colleague of Votava, led by H - 5698, or G3 - 5687 variant A, or G3 - variant B, which is Munzar, is adopted or Mr Hrnčíř - E2 - 5450, will be voted on by G7, this is the proposal of Mr Munzar, the proposal of a third - delaying the effectiveness of Art. III and IV of the Act for one year. If it is adopted, the amendments referred to in paragraph B3 shall no longer be put to the vote, which is 5722, for reasons of identity with this amendment. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] [[10.50 hours]] Then we have a third and I think the last group, amendments containing amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, where the first proposal will be voted by Mr Munzar G8 - 5727, where he wants to reduce the VAT rate for construction and assembly works on completed housing or social housing and construction or supply of buildings for social housing from 15 to 10 per cent and extend the first reduced VAT tax 15 to the supply of certain other real estates. So he's pretty wide. If this proposal is adopted, then it is unnecessary for us to discuss the amendments listed under the G4 numbers, that is 5688, that is no longer to be voted on, and G5, which is again Mr Munzar, 5689, A1 - 5314, A2 - 5315, which is Mr Jurečka, we are no longer voting A. If Munzar is not accepted, then the vote is still on G8, which is... Sorry, if the G8, colleague Munzar is not accepted, then we vote on the G4 when he gives a more narrower proposal to reduce the VAT rate for construction and assembly works on completed housing or social housing and for construction or supply of buildings for social housing from 15 to 10 percent. If it is adopted, we will not automatically vote on his other proposals G5, which is 5689, nor Mr Jurečka A1, which is 5314. If colleague Munzar 5727 or G8 or G4 is not accepted, which is again 5688, then we will vote on his next proposal, which is G5, which is 5689, and it is, in turn, a reduction in the VAT rate for construction and assembly works on completed buildings for housing or social housing, and the construction or supply of buildings for social housing from 15 per cent to 10 per cent by the end of 2023. If this is accepted, then the vote shall not be taken on the proposal of Mr Jurečka A1 - 5314. If the proposal of Mr Munzar G8, which is 5727 or G4, is 5688 or G5 - 5689, is not accepted, then the vote is still on Mr Jureček, on Amendment 5314, which is a reduction in the VAT rate for construction or delivery of buildings for social housing from 15 to 10 percent. And if the G8, 5727 is not accepted, then we have to vote on the proposal of Mr Jurečka A2, which is under number 5315 exemption of housing units from VAT. That should be the whole procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u88	Well, thank you. Does anyone have a reservation on the procedure? Does he have a suggestion? If not, in vote number twenty-eight, which I will begin, we will decide... My colleague, Chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura for procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u89	Although it was a long exposé by the rapporteur, I did not understand how we would deal with the E1, E2 proposals, because you said that we would vote together, but E1 and E2 are going against each other, so they cannot vote together. Or did you mean at point E1 of those 1 to 7 together and point E2 of that? We have two proposals with Mr Hrnčíř. One reduces from 300,000 to 100,000, and the other preserves the current state. And you said we'd vote at the same time, but we can't. Either one or the other, they're counterproposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u90	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u91	I may not have said that item 7 of the vote of the resolution in the Committee on Budgets is a vote on E1 if I answer you. Of course, they can't be voted - E1 and E2 will always be voted or unvoted as a whole, and that's why we're releasing it to E1. So we vote E2 and we're done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u92	So it's a separate vote in those blocks. Another colleague of Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u93	I got it. The rapporteur was wrong. He kept talking about E1. If he said E1 is unvoteable, if he passes something else or because he's identical to something else, then I get it, and then the vote is on E2. But he couldn't say, as he said, and apparently he was wrong, that he would merge both Mr Hrnčíř's proposals into one. It just wouldn't be possible. If one of them falls out because he's unvoting, that's another case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u94	Okay, it's a deal. So can we vote on the procedure at this point? Are we clear on E1, E2?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u95	So it is all conditional upon the passing of Amendment H to Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u96	Yeah, okay. We will decide on the procedure proposed by the rapporteur in the vote number 28, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 28 of the 190 for 182, against no one. The procedure has been approved. Let's get started, first draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u97	So the first proposal is an amendment under I 5719, Mr Martínek, to maintain the tax on the acquisition of real estate and the exemption of natural persons who are citizens of the Czech Republic or another Member State.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u98	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. - Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.]] I've started voting number 29 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 29 of 190 for the 51st Member, against 73. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go, second draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u99	The next proposal is if it is not adopted by I1, which has happened, or I, which has happened, 5719, so we are voting on the proposal of our colleague Potter E3 under number 5303, excluding any public aid in connection with COVID-19 for joint-stock companies, which will split shares in profits to shareholders resident or based outside the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u100	Opinion? [[The Minister disagrees.]] Committee? [[Also negative.]] I started voting number 30. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 30 of the 191 Members present for 39, against 20. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u101	This has been settled by the first group of amendments. The second group is amendments containing amendments to the Income Tax Act and there is a sub-group - amendments to the deduction of interest on mortgages and there the Committee on Budgets and legislation selected from a technical point of view as the best proposal of Mr Votava, which is under the heading 5698, which has been tabled here and concerns maintaining the deduction of interest on mortgages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u102	Opinion, Mr rapporteur? [[- Disadvised.]] The chairman of the ODS club, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u103	I therefore firmly hope that the rapporteur is wrong. We can determine what the procedure will be, it can be proposed by the Committee on Budgets, we approve, but we will not be regulated by legislation and will not be evaluated by legislation that is best written. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] That's right! Exactly, the approved procedure and the legislation simply has some advisory vote, but it cannot say that the four policy proposals here will be assessed by legislation and ranked according to quality. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u104	Okay. Committee opinion now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u105	I'm sorry, we basically spoke that way on the budget committee. It is the opinion of the Committee on Budgets now and now we will vote on the proposal from Mr Votava. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u106	Madam Secretary also said negative. [[- Yes.]] We're going to vote 31, which I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 31 of the 183 present for 84, against 7. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u107	Four. Since this proposal has not been adopted by Mr Votava, we are voting on the proposal G3 - 5687, Mr Munzar, variant A, maintaining the deduction of interest on mortgages, while reducing the amount that can be applied to 200 thousand per year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u108	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] Committee? [[Also negative.]] I've started voting number 32, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 32, from 189 in favour of 89, against 45. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u109	Fifthly, we will vote on Mr Munzar's proposal in variant B, number 5687, it is G3, maintaining the deduction of interest on mortgages and, at the same time, reducing the amount that can be applied to CZK 150,000 per year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u110	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] Committee? [[Committee - also negative.]] I've started voting number 33. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 190, from the present 190 is 96 pros, 43 pros. [[33]] The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u111	So the proposal was accepted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u112	The G3 proposal in variant B was accepted by 96 votes. [[Control in progress. - It's a delay.]] Is there a motion to challenge the vote, or is it not - can we continue? [[Opposite opinions. Move in the hall.]] Yes, Prime Minister Jurečka with priority rights. I respect that everyone wants to read the electronic record of the vote. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u113	Thank you. Mr President, it is customary for someone to give a clear gesture a sign that they are going to look at the list, question the vote, and do so in the order of tens of seconds. Here we already have a situation that runs for the third minute, you said - the proposal was accepted, if anyone is now looking for a useful idiot in the ranks of the government coalition, so I sincerely regret it, but from the procedural point of view the proposal was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u114	Mr President, I understand you, but on the other hand, I can clearly see that colleagues are looking at one piece of paper individually about what the electronic record of the outcome of the vote is. Let's continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u115	Okay. So I'm just going to recapitulate, so variant B was essentially adopted on the maintenance of mortgage interest deduction and, at the same time, a reduction in the amount that can be applied to CZK 150,000 per year. We will therefore not vote on the remaining proposals of Mr Munzar and Mr Hrnčíř and move on. And also Jurečka - A4. So we are now coming to group 2.2 - amendments to the exemption of income from the sale of real estate not used for own housing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u116	Quiet, please! I don't hear the rapporteur. Quiet in the Chamber, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u117	We are coming to a group dedicated to a time test, amendments to the exemption of real estate revenues. The first in line is G1, which is Mr Munzar, it is printing 5685, maintaining a time test for 5 years and the possibility of spending money on the housing needs it will obtain from the sale.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u118	Okay. Opinion? [[The opinion of the Committee on Budgets was negative.]] Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 34 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 34, of the Member present 191 for 66, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u119	Next. Although this proposal has not been adopted, Mr Feri, C2, is voted on to maintain the time test for 5 years, print 5457.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u120	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. - Rapporteur: The same budget committee, negative.]] I've started voting number 35. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 35, out of 190 in favour of 59, against 70. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u121	This is a situation where neither G1, nor C2 has been adopted, so we are voting for colleague Skopeček, B1 - 5723, an extension of the time test for 7 years and the possibility of spending funds on housing needs, we are voting for this as a whole. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets was negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u122	Madam Secretary, an opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 36 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 36, out of 190 in favour of 53, against 71 Members. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u123	Next in line should be because a colleague of Feri has not been accepted, so it should be proposal B2, colleague Skopeček, 5724, exemption of income from the sale of real estate, the possibility of spending part of this income on housing needs. The Committee on Budgets - a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u124	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 37, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 37, from the present 191 Members for 85, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u125	So it was not adopted by colleague Feri, C2, so we will vote A5, which is Mr Jurečka, number 5714, supplementing the transitional provision on the time test, allowing the housing needs to be spent and income from the sale of old housing property not intended for housing. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u126	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 38. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 38, of the Member present 191 for 86, against 73. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u127	The next proposal is the G2 of Mr Munzar, press 5686 - extension of the time to spend on housing needs by a year. Negative opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u128	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 39. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 39, 190 in favour of 87, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u129	Now the group is 23, the other amendments containing amendments to the Income Tax Act. There we have one amendment under the letter D of my colleague Spaniard 5453 - an increase in the limit for the exemption of occasional income to CZK 40,000. The Committee on Budgets shall deliver a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u130	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 40. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 40, of the present 191 for 76, against 78. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u131	I don't have this group here. I now have Amendments 2.4, amendments concerning transitional provisions and the effectiveness of Articles 3 and 4 of the Act. A whole new vote is proposed here instead of the original vote under paragraph 17. It's in two basic variants. The option of voting if the deduction of interest on mortgages is not maintained... but he was, so we have to look at the option of voting if the deduction of interest on mortgages is maintained. That is, because it has been adopted by my colleague Munzar variant B, so we will vote G7 in that case, proposal 3, which is Amendment 5692 - deferring the effectiveness of Articles 3 and 4 of the Act by one year. Opinion of the Budget Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u132	Okay. Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 41. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 41, 190 for 65, against 82. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u133	So this is a situation that has not been adopted, so we should vote on the amendment under letter B3, which is colleague Skopeček, number 5722 - deferment of the effectiveness of Articles 3 and 4 by one year. But that's the same thing... There's the whole thing, actually. Now I'm confused. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets shall be negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u134	Okay. Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 42. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 42, from 190 in favour of 53, against 82. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u135	This is from the third group, amendments containing amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. There we will vote first, Mr Munzar G8 - 5727, that is the broadest proposal, the reduction of the VAT rate for construction and assembly works on completed housing or social housing and the construction or supply of buildings for social housing from 15 to 10 per cent and the extension of the first reduced VAT rate of 15 per cent to the supply of certain other real estates. The opinion of the Committee shall be negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u136	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 43. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 43, of the present 191 for 72, against 78. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u137	So we have a situation where the proposal has not been adopted, so we will again vote on Mr Munzar, Amendment 5688 - a reduction in the VAT rate for construction and assembly works on completed housing or social housing buildings and on the construction or supply of buildings for social housing from 15 to 10 %. Opinion of the Budget Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u138	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 44. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 44, 192 for 76, against 75. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u139	Since the G8 proposal by Mr Munzar - 5727, and neither the G4 - 5688, was adopted, we will vote on his further proposal under the G5 - 5689, a reduction in the VAT rate for construction and assembly works on completed housing or social housing and on the construction or supply of buildings for social housing from 15 to 10 per cent by the end of 2023. The Committee on Budgets - a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u140	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 45. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 45, 192 for 83 against 74. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u141	Because my colleague Munzar was not accepted in version G8, neither G4, nor G5, so we will vote to Mr Jurečka and it is a print 5314, a reduction in the VAT rate for construction or delivery of buildings for social housing from 15 to 10 percent. Opinion of the Budget Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u142	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 46. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 46, 192 for 73, against 67. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u143	The next proposal is A2, which is again Jurečka's colleague, 5315, exemption of housing units from VAT. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u144	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 47. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 47, 192 for 65, against 75. The motion was denied. Mr rapporteur, have we exhausted all the amendments that have been put to the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u145	I think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-07-08-ps2017-054-02-001-270.u146	The appellants of the amendments. Are they all convinced that there has been a vote on their proposals? Looks like it's from our records, doesn't it? If no one objects, we can vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill abolishing the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Coll., on Real Estate Acquisition Tax, as amended, and other related legislation is amended and repealed, pursuant to House press 866, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I've started voting number 48 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 48, 192 present, for 187, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister and thank the rapporteur. I'm done with point 270. Let's continue with point number
