ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u1	372. Government bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status / House printing 849/ - shortened negotiations I will ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur of the Budget Committee, Miloslava Vostrá, take the position at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that the Committee on Budgets has adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 849/1. The Chamber of Deputies voted to hold a general debate, which was interrupted yesterday, 5 May. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] We will therefore continue the interrupted debate as soon as the situation calms down. Those discussing the school bill will move their discussions into the foyer. I will give the floor to Mr Vojtěch Munzar, but just a moment longer. Mr. Ambassador, come and let them see that you are given the floor. Again, if you're having a discussion about the end of the school bill, it's in the lobby! [[Noise doesn't slow down.]] I remind everyone on the left and on the right once more. I don't want to call a break, but I admit that the noise level is not such that my colleague Munzar can take his stand in peace. I still have to name my colleagues and colleagues who cancel... I don't have to do this. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your attention, colleagues, Madam Secretary. I was interrupted yesterday in the middle of my speech, but I won't repeat what I said yesterday. But I would like to concentrate on a few things that concern today's situation, and what lessons this can teach our society. Today, in full nudity, the role and importance of small businessmen and entrepreneurs for our society, for a functioning society, for our economy really shows. So if the epidemic should teach them a lesson, so that the state and state power begin to appreciate all the active people who have embarked on a difficult journey of business, so that the state does not throw sticks under their feet and, on the contrary, try to clear the way of business from the various unnecessary administrative burdens, regulations and also costs. I used one justification here yesterday, the secretary who wrote on Twitter - I very much identify with him - where she wrote that we need to let the economy take a deep breath. But I don't think we should just let her breathe properly, but we have to let her breathe properly. He's not gonna be a day-to-day economic reboot. Today it is really turned off as it turns off the button due to extraordinary measures and we should let it breathe to be more stable and firm in the long term. If we look at the electronic sales log. I was here yesterday talking about some of the stories that were brought about by restrictive measures and restrictive procedures of the Financial Administration towards entrepreneurs. And we can ask ourselves whether the EET actually brought and strengthened our economy, whether it strengthened the business environment, whether it stabilized public finances. We can answer all three questions that we don't. It did not bring either strengthening the economy or stabilizing public finances, and it brought administrative burdens to the business environment, and in particular other repression and fines for administrative misconduct, not for trying to avoid taxes. I must say that we should really think about the overall role of entrepreneurs in society and the business environment that EET was trying to suffocate. We have enjoyed the economy without small businessmen in the last days and weeks. We couldn't go to a pub, but we could stop by, for example, a car at the window of the fast food chain. We couldn't go to the hardware store, but we could go to the hobby market network. We could go to a supermarket where they didn't just have groceries, but they had clothes, but we couldn't visit a small clothing store. And is it really a dream, a desire and a desire for this society to reduce competition, reduce the activities of small entrepreneurs and we have had a significant advantage here only of networks, chains, holding companies and so on? [[11.20 hours]] Because EET leads to a reduction in competition. Because EET, of course, is a far greater burden for small businessmen, for small businessmen than for large ones. And that's why it leads to a reduction in competition. I'm only going to give you one or two numbers. According to calculations of the Association of Czech Traditional Trade in 2017, 1 082 rural stores ended. In 2018, it was 513. And the EET was one of the reasons why these businesses ended. For many, it was the last nail in the coffin. And I think that today is a unique opportunity for us to really start to appreciate entrepreneurs, start to appreciate active people and try to eliminate the obstacles to administrative, regulatory, which they have on this journey. And EET is such a big boulder. So I will ask you to support our amendments, which I and my colleagues will read in a detailed debate, where, of course, the most important proposal is the abolition of electronic sales records. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u3	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Now is the time for Mrs Věra Kovářová's speech. Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u4	Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, STAN welcomes the decision of the Ministry of Finance and has submitted an amendment to the EET Act to postpone it until the end of 2020. I am also glad that the Minister has learned the lessons from what has been said here by the opposition Members, and of course we welcome this. Indeed, entrepreneurs have other concerns, and it is therefore unnecessary to burden them with additional administrative obligations - and I quote from the explanatory memorandum. And, of course, it will be a relief for them at a time when they are dealing with existential problems. The arguments put forward by the Minister on the Committee on Budgets, why they did not approve such a proposal already in the case of the first amendment, were odd in the view that they did not yet know what the situation would be. But I would appeal to other speeches by the Minister in the field of other laws, where it was clear that the situation would look like at that time, and I quote to the Minister that we will deal with the problems of this crisis for many years. However, what impressed me in the explanatory memorandum is the following, when point 6 says that significant negative effects on the state budget are not foreseen. That is why I ask: if no major blackouts are expected, then why do we have EET? If there aren't any major blackouts, there probably won't be any major benefits, even when it works normally. So why bother businessmen, I don't want to say fag when there's probably no benefit? For this reason, we will propose and have tabled an amendment to the abolition of the third and fourth EET waves in the light of this statement in the explanatory report. But since we know the reality here in the House regarding the vote, we are proposing another option, and that is the displacement and delay of the EET for a whole year, i.e. the one deadline, until 31. 12. 2021. In short, entrepreneurs should not really be burdened with additional administrative duties, because they will certainly be busy dealing with the difficult economic situation. I will sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Ferjenčík, will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u6	Thank you very much. Just a few comments on our House Evergreen, electronic sales log. I consider it a bad regulation from the very beginning. It is a ball on the leg of entrepreneurs, which the government has tied to our active fellow citizens' feet without showing any positive effects of this costly and expensive regulation. I just want to remind you that the figures with which the Ministry of Finance operated, Madam Secretary and its predecessors, have always been sucked out of the finger, and the benefits of electronic sales records have never been shown to be pregnant in terms of increasing the revenue of the state budget. So the EET, which has become the ball on the foot of our entrepreneurs, especially the smallest, who are of course relatively worse off than the big players, so in today's situation, when our smallest entrepreneurs are really fighting for survival, so from the ball on the foot that the government has tied to them there can become a really very heavy boulder, which will definitely pull them down and end their functioning on the market, their functioning in the economy and put them in line at the employment office. I don't think there's a better opportunity than today's days to symbolically show our entrepreneurs that we appreciate them, that we're holding our fingers to the situation, and that we all want our businessmen and our small entrepreneurs to survive as much as possible in order to survive this situation, this crisis, and to meet them even after the Corona crisis has subsided. And what other symbolic gesture can we make today to pour hope into their lives than to abolish this inefficient expensive regulation, the administration that we have imposed on them in good times? I'm not sure we could find a more convenient moment to cancel electronic sales records. The Minister should, like the failure of the účtenkovka system, come to the conclusion that, after defending her senselessly for months, she would acknowledge that the účtenkovka was stupid and quietly canceled by the Ministry of Finance. I think and wish that the same mental process would occur in the Ministry of Finance as well as in the issue of electronic sales records. Because if we don't want to wake up after this crisis to an economy where only large corporations will work, only large chains and we won't meet our businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs there anymore, let's not cancel our electronic records and we'll drag it through or let's just prolong the interruption for a few more months. Does anyone really think that those businessmen and small entrepreneurs who are literally fighting for their lives today and to the letter do not know if they will continue on the market, that in a few months everything will be good, that the sky will be free of clouds, they will operate in great economic conditions and will therefore have time and money to buy and operate electronic sales records? That's nonsense. Even if the coronavirus crisis wears off, the economy will recover a long time, and our businessmen will recover long and long from what has happened to them today. So, Minister, I would like to challenge you if you really mean supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, if this isn't just a game, so support today's cancellation of the obligation to register electronic records of sales forever. Because it's stupid, it hasn't shown a positive effect, and today we really need to help our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. [[11.30 hours]] We have read a number of amendments. I would prefer that we really abolish this useless patronage of our entrepreneurs in quotes for eternal times. If the majority is not found for this in the House, there are a number of amendments that prolong the interruption for a longer period of time. And I will be happy to introduce mine in a detailed debate. So let's stand up for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs today. Let's show them the light at the end of the tunnel and cancel the EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u7	You're done with the show. I thank my colleague Skopečka. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. He will prepare himself, or a colleague, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, is ready. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD supports, as is known, businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We have said from the beginning that instead of implementing EET for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen it is good to introduce a so-called flat-rate tax following the model of Germany, that is, the state has its taxes certain because taxes are due, so the state has its taxes certain, at the same time, not rising bureaucracy on the side of businessmen and small entrepreneurs, and the bureaucracy does not rise on the side of the state either, because there is no need for additional forces on the side of the authorities. And now the government here is proposing to postpone the EET by the end of the year for all waves. In this context, I was intrigued by Prime Minister Babiš's statement, who said on their government proposal that nothing would actually happen. So, of course, I'm reading it in connection with the fact that basically the tax collection that was supposed to be announced from the EET is essentially not confirmed. But we know that. We know that. The readings are well known. And I would like to appeal again to the Government and to the Minister of Finance Schillerová, and we talked about this about a year and a half ago, I would estimate that the Ministry of Finance should actually process the flat-rate tax according to the field of activity and turnover. This is what the SPD proposes - according to the field of activity and turnover. And the secretary told me at the time when we talked about it, that she knew it worked this way west of us, but that it would take about two years, because it needed to be precisely processed according to the field of activity, namely turnover. And I was saying, a year and a half ago, Minister Schillerová, and now it's more than two years till the end of the term, but now it could be done. But the MP and the government didn't want to do it. We heard here a few months ago that the secretary dusted off the idea of the SPD and our proposal and said that she might be imposing a flat-rate tax. Well, we already have, we have a year and a few months before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, so basically we're in a situation where I feel like we're making mistakes again. Unfortunately, these promises and discussions will not be fulfilled, and again, businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are skinned without need. Because I'm saying again, the SPD says taxes are due and they have to, because otherwise we won't have health care, education, police, firefighters, infrastructure and all that. But the flat-rate tax is the solution. When you go to a beer stand in Germany, for example, if someone goes to former East Germany sometimes, you buy a beer there, I've done it many times, and, of course, they don't give you an EET receipt because they don't have EET, they write it down on paper and you normally pay because they have a flat-rate tax. So the government took an example in economically bankrupt Croatia, but we in the SPD take an example in Germany. Well, that's about the difference. And now I'll actually repeat again, Prime Minister Babiš will tell us to delay the EET by the end of the year that nothing is really happening. Well, so that something happens from the tax point of view, when it doesn't really work. Plus, they're on the entrepreneur's side, and I'd hate for numbers to fall here, we've chosen so much and so much, because those numbers don't take into account the fact that the entrepreneurs' side of the businessman's side was the extra expenses with the acquisition, and that's exactly the purpose when I hear the defense attorneys, they don't count that number in it. So if we count each other's numbers, they're even worse than they're announced. So I wanted to say, we are here, and our MP Jan Hrnčíř will also comment on this, we propose that the EET be postponed by 30. 6th next year, because the Prime Minister's statement fully confirmed that it was not at all, that it didn't really matter, he said it didn't mean anything. Well, then why do things that don't mean anything and that don't really matter? I didn't understand that by myself. But that's our opinion on this. And we say, let's really simplify access to business, to the business business, because businessmen are one of the backbones of the economy in every world's advanced economy. And in the Czech Republic, I would really say the government's abuse of bureaucracy, basically discourages them with everything possible from doing business, while the tradesmen want one thing. And I'm also a businessman, by the way, so I should apply here for a conflict of interest, so I'm applying to him. But I have been a proud businessman since 1994, and I am still doing business in my name. So all we've ever wanted, we businessmen, is for the state to just let us work, with minimal bureaucracy, because we don't want anything from the state either. We don't want any subsidies. We don't even want any special help. We just want the state to let us work because we want to feed ourselves. We're not burdening anyone. Well, that's just what the government and the current governments, including the current government, don't understand the YES, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement. They don't understand. They don't understand because it seems to me that when they're in charge of the state, and now I don't want anybody to take it personally, it's not aimed at the minister at all, what I'm going to say, but when the state is running bureaucrats or people who have basically or long-term work only in official professions or in state administration, and I have to say that those members of the government are so much more, and it's nothing wrong, someone is an official, I'm not saying that it's some worse job, but clearly lack the insight of us who've been used to living with our own hands and without some government income, so we just have that view different, the experience. So we don't have that view so that at all costs, we just needed to defend our work by giving working people in the private sector all the time some new regulations and orders, and by doing that, we're actually defending our work and our existence. But we're on the other side of the barricade. And we want this state to throw as little as possible sticks at us, so that we can clearly, clearly and simply pay taxes, because taxes are to be paid, that is what I'm stressing to make this state work and those services. But we just don't want any more fags, no more harassment, no more complicated filling. I say again, and I would like to conclude by asking the Minister if he really intends to fulfill the promise of introducing a flat-rate tax, but not only as it has been said here, up to half a million or up to 600,000 crowns, we have already said here that it can go without EET, and there are other conditions, but if we could actually dust off the idea that the SPD has been pushing for a long time to introduce a flat-rate tax for businessmen according to business and turnover, how it works, for example, in Germany. I'm really interested. You yourself, Madam Secretary, spoke of it a few months ago, but somehow it fell asleep. So I'd really like to know. And I'd like you to give me the answer, because simplifying business business so that people feel like self-employed. Do you know why I've been talking about this so long? Because today is precisely because of the emergency, and because of the declines in income, many people find themselves out of work, and they're already out of work. And the state has to motivate people to keep themselves busy. The state simply has to motivate citizens to be willing to find the job themselves, to have an appetite for self-employment and not to end up working just because they don't want to start some business, because it's too complicated and it discourages them. And unfortunately, that's the current situation. Question two. I would also like to know from the Minister how, even if it is not your field, it is up to Minister Havlíček, but so you are the Vice-President of the Government, how you want to motivate citizens today to self-employed people, when unemployment increases, unemployment will now rise, quite logically. I wonder if you're going to let it go the way it is now, it means bureaucracy, problems, it basically discourages people, because not everyone is just mathematicians and not everyone is able to fill out everything possible, but they want to do business and they want to create something and they want to make a living. So how do we do it now, because this should be one of the major government measures, simplifying people's access to self-employment? When someone makes something up, I'm gonna make a living on my own, 'cause I've just been fired from my job, so how does the state set it up so that people can keep themselves busy like that, which would be a great asset to the state. [[11.40 hours]] So it's for the SPD. And I really have to say, it's a big complaint to the government that, from my point of view, in quotes or in non-quotes, it persects businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, instead of trying to support them. Because, as you know, we are in a special condition in the Czech Republic that the average salary in government is higher than the average salary in the private sector, which, of course, does not make sense. Because those who are essentially fed on the taxes of those people in the private sector have a higher average wage than those who feed them. And I think that it is also very considerate, and it is a long-term unsustainable state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u9	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Now in the general debate, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I welcome that the government has finally joined the opposition proposal, which we have already tabled on 18 March with all the opposition parties, to postpone the EET until 1 January 2021, so at least this compromise proposal that we have tabled on 18 March, and the government has unfortunately given a disagreeable opinion on it, so today it is a government proposal, so it is correct. And I agree with him, and I'm sure we'll support him, even though we think he can be improved. And the upgrades. Once again, we propose the cancellation of the third and fourth EET wave, because really where transactions take place one-on-one, that means that the businessman goes to the customer, for example, to the apartment or to the garden, so it really doesn't make sense to be burdened by the fact that he has to have an electronic machine to do it, because whether he issues or doesn't issue a receipt doesn't depend on whether he has the device on the EET, but it depends on whether he does business honestly or dishonestly, and no EET will stop him from issuing the receipt. For this reason, we consider the third and fourth wave of EET to be a complete conceptual error. Then I suggest we postpone the EET further. I originally considered putting it on February 25, 2048, but I finally came to the conclusion that I propose it on September 2, 2054. It will be a hundred years since Andrej Babiš was born, so please give Andrej Babiš this birthday present to EET on his hundredth birthday. That seems appropriate to me. I believe that in the meantime, a system will be developed which will be significantly more user-friendly and, above all, will save the costs of entrepreneurs so that, for example, whoever has an EET does not have to file tax returns and such things. But to expect the EET to facilitate the business at the same time, unfortunately, we're only going down the path of repression. And the third thing we're proposing is to reverse the obligation to issue the receipt and instead introduce the obligation to issue the receipt on request, as it was before. The reason is simple. I asked the Financial Administration about this and at least 8,050 people received an average fine of CZK 2,500 for not issuing a receipt, but registering the sales properly. So we have a system where one doesn't cheat the state on the koruna of taxes, normally records the sales in the electronic system, pays taxes and everything is fine, but doesn't offer the receipt actively enough to the customer and gets a fine of CZK 2,500. It seems completely disproportionate to me that entrepreneurs who do not take any money from the state receive fines of an average amount of CZK 2,500. I really think this is completely illogical. And even the Financial Administration argues that the $2,500 fine is at the bottom of the rate, when you can get half a million crowns for it. Half a million fines - that's what they're threatening, and they're saying that it's actually very little, the 2,500. You can get half a million crowns of fines for not issuing a receipt, and yet you didn't cut any taxes, you properly registered the sales, you sent it to the Financial Administration, and the Financial Administration pretends it's a gracious 2,500, that it could have been much more. It seems totally undignified to me. For this reason, we propose with my colleague Vojtěch Pikal, who has already put it here once, so that it is really an obligation to issue a receipt on request, and not a flat-rate obligation, which is then used in this way in checks. So once again, let's give Andrej Babiš a gift for his 100th birthday and put EET away by 2054.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u11	Thank you for keeping time. This was the last one entered into the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. Madam Secretary is not interested, nor is the rapporteur. Madam Secretary, yes. There you go. The final word after the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be very, very brief. I will not repeat the arguments that were raised during the EET negotiations. You know I've been here a long time. Perhaps only very briefly, because there will be a few amendments, as I have been able to look at the rapporteur's annulment. Of course, I will never accept cancellation. I explained yesterday in my opening speech why I came to this view, and I submitted a motion to postpone the government on Monday by the end of 2020. You know, I was comparing it here yesterday to the fact that, in an emergency, we decided that various documents, such as IDs, driver's licenses, which are expired, so people can use them for a certain period of time without being threatened with sanctions without being rejected when they handle loans or deal with some other things. And I think basically having current documents is a standard, just like issuing a receipt, and like leading these things is a standard. It's normal in a civilized country. And maybe I'll use an example now, and I won't repeat what I've been saying here for months, which is now usable in this difficult time. EET is the protection of the honest, and I am convinced, and I have said it here x-times, that there is an absolute overwhelming majority of them, from those dishonest ones who spoil their sales, who spoil their fair competitive environment. And it turned out after those three years of EET, we had a whole series of arguments here, I'll use the only one that's applicable now in the pandemic, and that's because before we started the first wave, the average wage in hospitality was CZK 12,000. Twelve thousand crowns. The median in the economy at the time was 22, 23 - I don't have the number right here right now. Annually after the introduction of the first wave, wages in hospitality increased by 20 percent. And that, of course, is manifesting itself now that we've lost the pressure of the EET, thanks to the opportunity to pay those people so-called undercover sales, because, of course, the fact that someone was getting the payout on their hands will catch up with him now, for example, in the Antivirus program, where there is no record of such a person and his wages cannot be compensated from the program. And I think this has been one of many examples, I have a whole series of them that I would use now, because they fit very well into the issue of the current crisis, which, I hope, will only become a short-term black historical memory for us. Flat-rate tax - only briefly. We've prepared a flat-rate tax after the interdepartment. We're going to put it on the government, it's the flat-rate tax of up to a million crowns, when the one who decides to pay the flat-rate tax of around 5,700, 5 600 for 2020 - it's different for each year, of course - he doesn't have to file any tax records, he's not going to have to have any tax control. [[11.50 hours]] What President Okamura has been talking about is a system that has been built in Germany for years. It is a system of such taxing aids for regions and for fields such as: hairdresser in Brno pays so much tax, mason in Prague pays so much tax. This is indeed a system that has been chosen for example. In Germany, but I don't think that we could have prepared such a system for us, I wouldn't have imagined that we would have been able to enforce it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u13	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word after a general debate. I am opening the debate in detail. The first is Mr Vojtěch Munzar, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u14	Thank you. I want to present some of our amendments. The first one is to cancel the EET as a whole. Madam Secretary here said that the EET is just a receipt system. But I think that's a bit of a public confusion, because the EET brought with it a great restriction and repression against individual tradesmen, where fines are given for administrative misconduct, e.g. for issuing a summary receipt, etc., not for trying to circumvent tax obligations. But that's one of the reasons why we're coming up with a proposal to cancel the EET as a whole, which you'll find in the system under number 5152. The next proposal we come up with is to cancel the start of the third and fourth wave, respectively. at least move to 1. 1. 2022. We do not think that the state should be bureaucratically burdened today, for example. doctors, hairdressers, other craftsmen, especially at a time when the inspection in these fields will not work, and this is what Mr. Ferjenčík here said, through you. So you'll find this proposal under number 5153. And another amendment, interruption of electronic sales log for all either by the end of 2022 alternatively or by the end of 2021. You'll find that under number 5154. The reasons are still the same as I said here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u15	I thank Mr Munzar. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, in a detailed debate, will be prepared by Mrs Skopeček. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to the amendments. The first concerns the cancellation of the third and fourth EET wave and the system is run under number 5162 and the second, which is run under number 5139, postpones the EET deadline until the end of 2021, i.e. 31. 12. 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u17	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u18	Thank you very much. So even though I would like to cancel the electronic record of sales as a whole, if it fails, I would also like to read my amendment, which you will find in the system under number 5155. It is an amendment delaying the reopening, re-applying the obligation to record sales one year after the emergency has ended. So, ever since the end of the emergency year, entrepreneurs would still have time to deal with the crisis they're experiencing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u19	Thank you, Mr Skopečka. Now, then, Mr Jan Hrnčíř. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just gonna say that before I sign up for my amendment, we're having such a déjà vu here. Six weeks ago, we were here to discuss the EET's displacement, when the government came up with a three-month move on the EET. We said basically unisono from the opposition that it wouldn't be enough. We have six weeks here, and the government actually came up with the need for the economy to take a breath, which means that EET is probably suffocating the economy, so I'm talking about it. So I think it would be good to work on some other solution that won't stifle the economy. I have proposed an amendment under number 5120, to which I am reporting here, when we postpone the EET until 30 June 2021, and I hope that there will be a better solution during that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u21	Thank you, colleague Hrnčíř. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and then colleague Munzar, I will explain why. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by reacting very briefly to the Minister's final speech, which said that the average wage increased by 20 per cent in hospitality. But it increased by 20 percent from 2016 to 2019. So when wages are growing everywhere, they're probably growing logically in hospitality. So here to argue with this doesn't seem entirely possible. Plus, if anything has a very significant effect on wage growth by professions that receive some of the money on their hand, which I don't think anyone here denies, it's a minimum wage growth. The growth of a minimum wage ensures that the minimum contract for people who receive part of their paychecks is really rising. And it's definitely not an EET. And now for the amendments I'm applying to. I am applying to the amendment under number 5161, which I submit together with my colleague Tomáš Martínek. It's the cancellation of the third and fourth EET wave, i.e. cancellation of EET typically for craftsmen and other free professions. Furthermore, the proposal 5163, which I submit together with my colleague Tomáš Martínek and Vojtěch Pikal, is the insertion of the words "on request" in the issue of a receipt. I was talking about the fact that today companies that are properly registering the sales are receiving the receipt, but they will not offer the receipt actively enough, an average fine of CZK 2,500. I think that's completely inappropriate bullying. Plus, if it's on request, e.g. In the bars, the job would make it a lot easier for these people to say, "Do you want a receipt?" There's no joy either. So we propose to add the words "on request" to the obligation to issue a receipt. And the final proposal is 5180, delaying the EET to Andrej Babiš's 100th birthday. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u23	Thank you. And now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, because the tapestry needs to be precise. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, coworkers, colleagues. There was legislation behind me that she didn't quite pick up all those numbers, I guess I was misunderstood in that guise. I'll do it again just in case. This is an amendment under number 5152, an amendment under number 5153 and the last amendment under number 5154. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-06-ps2017-045-04-003-372.u25	Thank you, colleague Munzar. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. I don't have anyone logged in, I don't see anybody from where I am, and I'm done with a detailed debate. I remind you that after the close-up of the detailed debate, we still have the final words, if the Minister, the rapporteur, is interested. It's not like that. I can therefore end the second reading of this proposal and under the agreement of the Members' Clubs, even if we can follow up the third reading at the second reading, so I will have the amendments drawn up, and I will interrupt paragraph 372 and I will begin point 373. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. The Minister will probably stay at the rapporteur's table because this will also be her point, and Mr Farhan will be the rapporteur instead of Mrs Vostrá.
