ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 580/ - second reading We started the discussion yesterday and I will ask the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová to take her place at the rapporteur's table, so I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa. I would remind you that the budget committee's resolutions were delivered as House prints 580/1 and 580/2. We will continue with the interrupted debate in which Members are joined in the order you see, i.e. Mr Kolářík, Ferjenčík, Kalousek, Martínek, Juránek and Munzar in the general debate, and other Members in the debate in detail. Before I give the floor to Mr Kolářík, I will ask the House for peace. Mr. Kolářík, if he's ready, he's ready. Okay. [[Still a lot of noise in the hall.]] Mr. Ambassador, just a moment longer, because some of us are likely to be discussing the previous point, I see... [[The House is quieting down.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed colleagues, I'll pick up where I left off yesterday. I would like to present my amendment to this press. Since my mandate deals with the debt and overall issue of the state and the issue of debt, I would like to focus on the so-called interest on late payments that we have in the Czech Republic in the event of non-compliance with tax obligations. Three changes were made in a few years. In fact, the last one was such that the interest resulting from the late payment was not limited in any way and was as low as it was before, and in essence the amount due would be remunerated until the debtor's death. I think that today, when the negative influence of over-indebted people and debt traps is often consulted not only on the economy of the state, but on the overall functioning, the state should not contribute and increase this issue and burden those people with other and other payments. It is logical that interest should be paid if a person does not fulfil his tax obligation, but the interest to death I think is unnecessary, and therefore I would like to return it to the state as it was before 2010, which means that the interest on late payments is calculated only for 500 days. Then there's the ceiling. This would mean that the maximum interest would be about 70 per cent of the amount owed, so you can see for yourself that it is almost double the amount of the debt. Since I am aware that the Ministry of Finance will probably not be entirely happy with this amendment, I have prepared two options. One variant is that it affects both legal and natural persons, it's kind of all-embracing, let's say. The second option is that interest on late payments would count for a maximum of 500 days only for natural persons. So thank you for supporting my proposals. I am, I am calling them, and I will read them later in a detailed debate, and I am asking for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u3	I thank Mr Lukáš Kolářík. We will continue with Mr Ferjenčík's speech, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, first of all, very briefly on the bill as a whole. He has, say, two parts. One that is non-conflict and has a consensus across the House is a part that simplifies electronic tax collection. Of course, we fully support this. We support the creation of a user-friendly portal where taxpayers can pay all taxes, and we also encourage social insurance, ideally and health insurance, to be able to pay through it. Unfortunately, this vital function is not counted in the first stage, which we consider to be a mistake, but I still believe that in time it will be able to integrate, so that real tax officials do not have to do the same as the officials of the Czech Social Security Administration and that these two processes can be brought under one roof. So that's the first part that has support across. The second part is much more problematic, and this is mainly a one-off improvement in the state budget balance, and not only in the state budget, but also in the budget of other public institutions, especially regions and municipalities, in total by CZK 24 billion at the expense of our companies. We really cannot agree with that, and that is probably the main reason why there is a considerable debate about the press, a considerable controversy. For this reason, we have prepared several amendments. One amendment, which I also support, has already been introduced yesterday by Mrs Kovářová of the STAN movement, which means that to maintain the tolerance period for the submission of tax claims, which was supported by the Committee on Budgets on my proposal, and for which I thank all colleagues, it has also been added that the tolerance period for paying the tax has been maintained. So it's kind of a little thing that keeps a proven tolerance term. In addition, together with my colleague Kovářová and my colleague Martínek, we are submitting a proposal that repeals the proposal to extend VAT refunds by 15 days and to produce the one-off better management of the state. I don't think there's any reason that at a time when companies borrow at worse interest than the state, the state would only make cash flow worse by up to CZK 24 billion. And if there is a reason to improve any backups and limit the retention of the door, then the price of CZK 24 billion for 15 days is just very high and actually every month. Of course, we cannot agree with this, so together with Mrs Kovářová and my colleague Martínek, we are proposing an amendment that repeals this part of the amendment. I also propose an amendment which addresses the issue of reinsurance orders and the issue of compensation for firms in the event that they have been targeted by an illegal or small-scale freezing order. In such a case, I suggest that they be entitled to double interest against normal interest. I think that especially for hedge orders that have the potential to liquidate a functioning company, tax officials should be extremely cautious. And if there is an illegal hedge order, the compensation for the firm should be beyond normal inflation or what the tax entity is entitled to automatically, but it should be higher so that the tax administration is actually motivated to judge this instrument extremely cautiously and that companies do not have to sue the State for the compensation. Let's just automatically get a little bit more than the minimum and, if necessary, what's beyond that, but I think that double interest against other state errors is completely adequate, and those cases of hedge orders that have happened in the past have been extreme. After all, today the state has already paid hundreds of millions in interest on unauthorized hedging orders. I beg the support of this amendment, as well as the support of my proposal to maintain the tolerance period, which was supported by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u5	Thank you, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to delay by repeating the arguments that have fallen here either from Mrs Kovářová or from Mr Ferjenčík. I'm just gonna sigh that it's too bad we can't say that this proposal improves the business environment. If it were not for the few mines that were inserted there, whether in terms of interest or reduction of tolerance time, but especially the extension of the VAT refund period, we could now say, as opposition Members, thank you, the proposal really is friendly and improves the business environment. This is what we have to say, unfortunately, the proposal is certainly friendly, but it is primarily friendly to the officials of the Financial Administration and for one-time improvement of the state budget. Otherwise, the total balance of the business environment is minus. Certainly the most unacceptable point of this proposal is the extension of the VAT refund to 45 days, which will, of course, otherwise fall on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and otherwise fall on large, capital-strong corporations, so that it will once again contribute to opening scissors in conditions between small and large. [[11.50 hours]] The Ministry of Finance has devoted itself extremely carefully to the Committee on Budgets to defending this proposal on several pages. Unfortunately, I have to say that all these arguments are odd. I don't want to delay their in-depth disprovement. I refer to professional literature which is already coming out on this issue and which very convincingly refutes all the substitute arguments of the Ministry of Finance. I'll just say the main one. If we want to pay advances and comply with the Constitutional Court's finding, we must have a search activity of 50 per cent longer, which means not 30, but 45 days so that we can consider this responsibly. However, it is described in the bill itself, and the law assumes that advances will be paid only in the context of a control activity where no time limit is given. This means that the amount of the advance is not fixed as part of the search activity. This is determined only in the context of the control activity. The Ministry of Finance's argument is completely odd here. It is simply not possible that, at a time of digitization, at a time when the financial authority has facilitated the situation by a check report, by electronic submission, to simplify the situation by extending the time to return by 50 per cent, i.e. 45 days. Those 15 days will be very expensive for every businessman, for every middle businessman. He doesn't deserve this state to treat him this way, just by making it better for the Minister in the budget of 2021. She'll be okay with it even worse in the budget of 2022, and that'll be the election and the deficit will be added up after the election. So that's the only, really the only reason, covered up by a lot of clandestine and untrue arguments. I'm sorry I have to say this. But it really is. I therefore submit a single amendment, which I am asking for support from. Of course, I will support a number of others. I will present it in a detailed debate. In a somewhat different legislative design, I propose the same thing as Mr Ferjenčík has already announced, to keep the time for 30 days. I don't give a damn whether my amendment goes away or not on the same subject. However, I consider it shameless for entrepreneurs to extend this deadline. If this or other similar amendment is not adopted, it is absolutely impossible for me to vote in favour of this amendment to the Tax Code, however many reasons there are for which I would like to vote for it. But the mine with 45 days is unstoppable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u7	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Tomáš Martínek now. Mr Stanislav Juránek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government proposal already contains my proposal to extend the deadline for electronic tax returns, which is intended to positively motivate citizens to use digital communication with the state. I would also like to say that the proposal contains some not entirely happy adjustments, which, fortunately, are being adapted here by the amendments tabled by Mrs Mikuláš Ferjenčík or Mrs Věra Kovářová, where I am also a co-president. I'd be happy to sign up for them. Now I would like to comment briefly on the amendment which aims to automatically remove the birth number from the tax identification number for the newly allocated VAT number. The birth number is one of the most sensitive personal data, it can be used for example in the negotiation of credit and so on. Although the Government's proposal allows for a change to the VAT number, I do believe that, at a time when we are not slowly publishing full names in some cases for the protection of personal data, all newly created VAT number should no longer contain the birth number. The main argument against the proposal according to the Ministry of Finance is probably financial difficulty. If the supplier, I presume IBM managing ADIS, charged more than CZK 20,000 for just changing the numerical series, it would be a reason for me to immediately terminate the disadvantageous contract. The adoption of the amendment itself will allow the Ministry to identify the identifier it considers appropriate. In theory, this can continue with the practice of issuing native numbers, but at least it will no longer be clearly defined in the law. It's funny that a number in the shape of a birth number doesn't occur while a number in any shape is supposed to occur. The number of randomly generated generic identifiers can by nature always be greater than the number of native numbers. The solution to this problem is therefore only a matter of minor change of algorithms used to generate a general identifier. A comprehensive solution has been mentioned for more than ten years and a draft law has recently been approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which postpones the comprehensive solution to replacing native numbers again. The Ministry's argument about voluntary decision can be tested here in the House, for example. Let's see. Let's change the public mailboxes of Members to the shape of the Member's birth number@pspsp.cz , and let's see how many Members retain their e-mail in this shape and how much they will want to modify to a different shape. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u9	I thank Mr Tomáš Martínek. Mr Stanislav Juránek now. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have here the opinion of the KDU-ČSL on this law. However, we also have our amendments, which I tabled together with Mr Bartošek. The Government's draft law amending the tax rules is aimed at several changes in the scope of the tax deduction period when not notifying the assessment or measurement, which are all always at the expense of tax entities, without any legitimate grounds or without the amendments mentioned in the Government's draft law being appropriate, appropriate and necessary. This is particularly the area of interest paid by the tax administrator in connection with its unauthorised conduct. By means of individual changes in those areas, the State reduces the scope of the tax entity, in particular in the field of tax determination and recovery and in the field of refundable overpayments. The Government's bill disproportionately favours the tax administrator without taking into account and correctly measuring the reasons for the benefit of the tax entity. Therefore, our amendment is, in principle, aimed at maintaining the current situation, in which we prefer that the amount of interest paid for its unauthorised conduct should be determined by law and should continue to have not only a normal function of reparation, taking into account the price of money, but also a function of sanctioning, which takes into account the unjustifiedness of the conduct of the tax administrator, and thus has a function of sharpened reparation, and if it is possible to talk about it in this context. Without greater justification, interest on the unlawful conduct of the tax administrator in the event of unlawful recovery is completely removed in the Government's bill, when it is the unlawful enforcement that belongs to the areas most sensitive to tax entities that are adversely affected. They do not have many options to reverse or at least mitigate the negative consequences of such unauthorised conduct by the tax administrator. Thus, it appears appropriate to maintain a special higher rate of interest on the unauthorised conduct of the tax administrator in the event of recovery. A similar amount should then have interest on an wrongly determined tax paid on the basis of an unlawful or void freezing order, since, in the negative consequences, such unauthorised conduct by the tax administrator, in particular an unlawful or void freezing order, is often similar to its legibility and seriousness to tax entities for unauthorised enforcement. Therefore, such unauthorized reinsurance orders need to have a sharp reparation function of such interest, respectively. penalty function. [[12.00 hours]] Our amendment therefore aims to maintain the current situation and contains a proposal to increase the rate of interest paid by the tax administrator in the case of unauthorized reinsurance orders, which have proved particularly recently to be an instrument used by the tax administrator to determine and collect taxes. The unauthorised conduct of the tax administrator should continue to be corrected, at least in part, by interest on the refundable overpayment, interest on the incorrect determination of the tax and interest on the unauthorised conduct of the tax administrator in the event of unauthorised recovery. Therefore, this amendment of ours, for the above general reasons, is directed both against the longer period for tax deduction in the absence of notification of the assessment or measurement, and against the method of fixing and the amount of interest on the unauthorised conduct of the administrator. It therefore harmonises the time limit in the case of both notification and notification of the result of the assessment or measurement to the tax entity when returning the refundable overpayment to the tax entity without an application, for 15 days from the date of notification of the payment notice or additional payment notice, respectively. from a date deemed to be the date of receipt of the payment notice or additional payment notice where the result of the measurement or measurement is not notified to the tax entity. The amendment therefore seeks, for the reasons set out above, to maintain the current situation, where the deadline was 30 days, not 45 days, as proposed by the Government's draft law. Furthermore, the amendment returns a mark-up to 14 percentage points in general in the case of interest on the tax wrongly determined. Interest on an incorrectly determined tax, where the basis for calculating interest on an incorrectly determined tax is the amount paid under an unlawful or void freezing order, shall then be increased to 28 percentage points. The point of our proposal is also that it anchors this mark-up directly in the law, not in the government's regulation. I will sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u11	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will also speak in the debate, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u12	Thank you, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. In terms of tax rules, many people imagine some methodical instruction for accountants, tax advisors, and tax authorities. But that's a big mistake. Tax rules are the ones that determine the business environment. When the government had the administrative burden measured in 2016, the total value was 71 billion. CZK represented a burden associated with the tax administration of more than 40 billion. And it's not just an administrative burden. This is also a way of acting as a state power towards citizens, entrepreneurs and taxpayers. Ronald Reagan used to say: The first duty of government is to protect people, not to manage their lives. The current government has behaved in a long and planned way. Instead of protecting citizens, their rights to state power are once again coming to the word of a tendency to protect state power at the expense of citizens. And the proposed amendment to the tax code and other tax laws is a shining example of that. I, Madam Secretary, have long been blaming the government for planning to deflect scales to the detriment of entrepreneurs and for the benefit of state power. On the one hand, the government is planning to reduce tolerance to entrepreneurs' mistakes, tighten fines and sanctions, and, on the other hand, it increases the powers of state power and closes its eyes to the errors of this state power and officials. This creates a hostile business environment and reduces the role of entrepreneurs in our company to a registration number whose only role is robotically and without errors to pay taxes. The state doesn't serve people, but it tries to control them. And this amendment is an example of this approach. I mean, look at this! On the one hand, the state is trying to disrupt the five-day interest-free period for late payment of tax, abolishing the five-day tolerance for filing tax returns on income tax and property tax. On the other hand, he wants to keep taxpayers' money longer in his accounts, or for example. it develops in advance from its incorrect decisions so that it does not have to pay interest on late payments. Even in this proposal, in this novel, there is a change in the nomenclature. We will no longer have interest on the unlawful conduct of the tax administrator, but only on the incorrect tax. Do you see the meaning shift? Because the state, and especially the Financial Administration, is probably infallible. At least according to the uncritical defense of the Minister of Finance for some of the overuse of the powers of the Financial Administration. And that there's been two of them in the last two years! In short, it is a novel that deflects the balance from entrepreneurs to the state again. Because it is such an important subject that has already been discussed by my previous speakers, I personally have ten amendments that will try to return the tongue on the scales back from the state to entrepreneurs. I will not surprise you with the first amendment - they have already mentioned it here, for example. Mr Kalousek or colleague Ferjenčík - is to leave a deadline for the recovery of excessive deductions for 30 days instead of 45 days. The shift in the moment of the deduction refund is undoubtedly aggravating cash flow and the management of tax entities' financial flows, which the explanatory memorandum also openly admits. In the long run, the State is creating a kind of interest-free loan for business entities, an accountant, an interest-free loan from the money of entrepreneurs. The overall impact of this step on the business environment will clearly be negative, as entrepreneurs do not have to receive available funds in the extreme case, on the contrary, they will have to borrow funds themselves. It most affects those smaller ones who do not have sufficient reserves and live often from invoice to invoice. This proposal will make life more difficult for them. And that's just because - Madam Secretary - you're 16 billion. CZK more in the state budget in the accounts of 2020. Overall, it will one-off and optically improve public budgets by 24 billion. The arguments that have been raised here have been raised on the budget committee by the Minister that the Financial Administration needs more time to plan the data will not hold up. When the audit reports were introduced, the Ministry of Finance also argued that this would lead to an acceleration of processes in the Financial Administration. And the result is a proposal to extend the deadline. My proposal also has a slightly different design than that of my colleague Ferjenčík, but I made a promise at first reading that I would present this proposal, which is what I am doing. By the way, the budgetary impact will be one-off - only in 2020. Coincidentally, this will be the result of the calendar year before the elections. Of course, when I see what kind of dungeon the government is helping to improve the results of the economy, the idea that this is the real reason for extending the deadline is persistently creeping in. Before the elections, you can optically improve the results of the closed calendar year. The second amendment concerns the recovery of the tolerance period of 5 days for the submission of the tax return on income and property tax and the third amendment concerns the return of a five-day tolerance for the payment of the tax. The aim of the State should not be to tighten and reduce tolerance at all costs, but rather to respect the will of entrepreneurs and citizens to fulfil their tax obligations towards the State and maintain a stable tax environment. The abolition of tolerance periods means just unnecessary additional sticks under the hands of taxpayers. And completely useless! It's not gonna bring anything to the state. However, the suspension of the tolerance period is not only a symbolic expression of a negative approach to taxpayers, but in real life it can be uninhibited on the part of an entrepreneur, businessman and citizen to credit the tax later on than the due date. [[12.10 hours]] Some of the ANO colleagues on the Committee on Budgets expressed their amazement about why there should be any tolerance to taxpayers at all. But why not? Why change at all costs established, what entrepreneurs are used to? The Minister on the Committee on Budgets said that the new interest system and the minimum threshold were better than the previous system. This does not preclude both amendments. These only lead to the introduction of the five-day tolerance and do not change the whole newly designed system completely. Another amendment concerns the fact that the State wants to develop ahead of time and relieve liability for the error of the tax procedure. With very vague wordings, the State and the Ministry of Finance are trying to create as broad a set of cases as possible, which will not be subject to interest under the new name of the wrongly established tax, thereby easing the set in advance when the interest should be paid by the State to taxpayers. That's not fair to taxpayers. And my amendment aims to at least partially correct this. Nor is it fair if the State does not want to pay interest on an incorrectly determined tax in cases of so-called divided administration. Divided administration is when one state institution, such as the Customs Administration, measures your tax or fine, but it is being enforced by another, such as the Financial Administration. I find it absolutely incredible that the state is creating a group of taxpayers who are not entitled to interest on late payments just because they have divided their competences internally in some way. This is not a change brought about by the new amendment to the tax system. This removal of the group was already carried out by the amendment in 2017 despite and directly against the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which, in its decision and case law, determined that the State should pay interest in the case of the tax administration. Since the tax entity cannot really influence the internal division of State competences, we should not reduce the rights of one group simply because the State has divided its competences. My amendment will try to straighten out the conditions for all tax entities. My next amendment concerns a completely brutal cancellation of interest for illegal enforcement under the current § 254. This means the effective crowding out of tax entities affected by unlawful execution into civil proceedings for damages instead of the current rapid and simple compensation for damages and interest. This is an obvious attempt by the Ministry to minimize the damage paid by the state for illegal execution, for example in connection with illegal detention orders. Therefore, in a similar way, although in a slightly different way, as my colleague, Ferjenčík, I suggest that in such cases, the interest to be paid by the State should be doubled for the taxpayer in such cases. The next amendment does not directly concern the changes brought about by the amendment to the Tax Code, but responds to what I said at the beginning about reducing tolerance and increasing rigor towards entrepreneurs, and this also applies to the time limits for error. I'm trying again, I've already proposed it here in tax laws several times, I suggest we increase the deadline to complete the inspection report from the current five to 15 days. For example, if today the Financial Administration invites a businessman to complete the inspection report, it has only five days to do so, otherwise it is threatened with sanctions and fines. It's a complication especially for the smallest ones who either do it themselves, or have only one accountant, they don't have a team of people, they don't have representativeness, so there's just one accountant or that businessman on vacation, or something happens, or someone's sick, and then, at best, the businessman can't secure it within five days. I therefore propose extending this period from five to fifteen days. The penultimate proposal concerns the return of property tax. Today, the state has enough data in its records - Madam Secretary - to be able to measure property tax itself in most standard situations, and thus not force every person to go to the cadastral not only to file tax returns from the acquisition of the property, but to file a new tax return on the property tax. The state has data from the cadaster, the state also has data from the real estate acquisition tax return, so it has a sufficient overview of the property and the change of ownership. Yet, as I said, every taxpayer must once again come to the office and fill out a completely simple tax return. I therefore propose that, in certain standard situations where other circumstances relevant to the calculation of the tax do not change, it is possible for the taxpayer not to file a tax return. In such a case, the tax would be determined by the Financial Administration according to the facts available. I stress that this is a choice. The taxpayer may use this or file a tax return on his own if he is convinced that he is entitled to an exemption or if he is not sure whether the Financial Administration will calculate the tax well for him. This is therefore the choice of the taxpayer. I, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, made a similar proposal in the context of the tax package and there the Ministry of Finance, and this is important, this amendment did not dispute in substance, it just had a comment on a short period of time, on effectiveness. I therefore propose the effectiveness of this amendment from 1. 1. 2021. That should be enough time to program it. If the Ministry has managed to program and functionalize the entire new EET system between April and December 2016, then similar time should suffice the Ministry for a much simpler system, which will only be able to read the data from the cadastral and connect them to data and information system for the registration of property acquisition tax. That is why I want to believe that in its opinion, the Ministry of Finance will meet this proposal. The last amendment I want to introduce you to is the proposal to increase the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million. It is precisely when the limit is exceeded that there is a rapid increase in the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and businessmen associated with the payment of taxes, which I mentioned at the outset. When the VAT limit is exceeded, the time and financial costs of the administration that such an entrepreneur has to do for the state are increasing. The original effort, which is now up to CZK 1 million, was to allow the smallest entrepreneurs the opportunity to do business without the VAT registration requirement precisely to prevent the least from being burdened by the tax administration. But over the fifteen years that this border has not moved, there has been an increase in price levels, inflation, and that is why today this turnover of CZK 1 million exceeds far more entrepreneurs than it originally intended. Small businessmen, for your information, often just one special contract per year and fall into the VAT regime and thus into this increased administration. By increasing the limit, we would greatly relieve entrepreneurs, at a small price indeed, units of billions of crowns of budget, which is not so high in the budget, and, of course, this money will be used by businessmen in their business. Therefore, a significant proportion of the resources will be recovered in the revenue of the state budget in other taxes, and in addition this measure would contribute to the recovery of economic activity. This stimulus is needed by our country at the time of slowing down economic growth and our economy. I put forward the same proposal when discussing the tax package. That's why I'm not going to repeat all the arguments today. Madam Secretary, I am very sorry that the Ministry rejected the proposal again with reference to European law, while we gave you the example of Slovenia for inspiration, which requested an increase in the border in July 2012, and in January 2013, a Council of Europe decision was issued to allow this border to be increased, which is five months. The decision on Slovenia confirmed the possibility for Member States to apply for an increase in the threshold of up to EUR 100,000. So I really don't understand why the Ministry keeps saying that it can't be because of Europe, that it can't be because of Europe, that it can't be because of Europe. I think the D.O.D.'s just hiding behind it. I therefore hope that you will stop hiding behind the European Union and the current threshold and stop saying that this cannot be done. It's just whether there's a will and a willingness of the government to do something about it. [[12.20 hours]] If the willingness is not and the position will again be similar to that of the tax package, then I will very much like to repeat all my arguments on this proposal at the third reading. And I'm trying to be optimistic, and I hope that at least some of the ice in the Ministry will move. Ladies and gentlemen, that was ten amendments. Thank you for considering them. Thank you for considering them at the Ministry of Finance. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u13	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Jan Skopeček, who has so far been last registered, will now speak. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u14	Thank you very much. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be disproportionately shorter. I will repeat three main reasons why I think that we should not approve the tax rules in that amended form. Before that, I'm going to give you a little bit of a cover-up. I am actually convinced that whoever moves the Czech Republic forward, whoever develops the Czech Republic, those who make us richer and can also redistribute and finance public goods, so is the business environment, entrepreneurs who do business at their own risk, give jobs, allow the Czech Republic to grow richer and move the whole country forward. On this basis, I look at this law and ask whether the amendment to the law will help this sector of entrepreneurs to develop the Czech Republic even more easily, even more easily to let other citizens of the Czech Republic get richer, further to move the Czech Republic forward. When I evaluate what this amendment contains, on the side where it complicates our businessmen's environment, where their life is complicated, where regulation is added, there is certainly more to it than on the side facilitating or improving the tax environment. For me, on that cost side, on that side of regulation, on that side of complications for our businessmen, there are three essential things. The first one is the often mentioned extension of the time limit for the refund of excess VAT from 30 to 45 days. Indeed, it is true that this will provide our entrepreneurs with an interest-free accountant at the expense of their own funding. I do not understand why, at a time when we have approved a control report, when the Financial Administration boasts of how it can collect taxes more effectively than in the past, when the control report also meant an increase in costs for our entrepreneurs, so why at such a time the Financial Administration wants to increase this deadline from 30 to 45 days. I assume that electronic tools, digitalization makes the state to reduce individual deadlines, so that taxes and tax payments are also in this way, digitalization, more flexible, faster, and deadlines necessary for the state to hold back money that doesn't belong to it, money that belongs to entrepreneurs that could serve to develop their businesses and their businesses, so that the state doesn't keep for too long. The logic of the matter together with the digitization, together with the inspection report, would lead to a gradual reduction in this period, not in 30 days, but in 20, 15. Instead, the Finance Minister comes up with an extension of the deadline to 45 days. This, of course, will have an impact on the liquidity of companies, on cash flow companies. And not only those companies that are affected by it, which will cost them to hold off an excessive deduction of 45 days, but of course it will, or it may end up with the companies that are trading with this entity. As soon as the company doesn't have sufficient liquidity, it can hold off some payments to its suppliers, so that it can extend the maturity of invoices and in this way by rolling on a snowball, the cash flow problem can spread not only towards the company that will be affected, but to the companies that are trading with this company. The Minister and I often talk here about the Doing Business ranking, and how complicated and complicated the tax system is in our country, and that it brings us down in the tax area in the overall Doing Business ranking, and the position of the Czech Republic down in both construction proceedings and taxes. And if the authors of this ranking are accusing us of anything, or as one reason why we are on that sub-average rung in the tax area, it is precisely that the state is withholding deductions, excessive deductions for too long. Instead of reacting to it by shortening that time, the Treasury wants to create space here and a longer time. I don't understand, and it's stupid in my opinion. And we should not support this point in the proposed amendment. Another thing that goes against entrepreneurs is the abolition of a five-day tolerance period where entrepreneurs can lodge a late tax return with impunity or without penalties. This tolerance period shall be waived. It is also, of course, a step hostile to entrepreneurs, a step hostile to the business environment. It is smiling to realize that it is a state that, in a number of areas, is unable to meet its own deadlines, which some decisions take place with a delay which is contrary to the law and often contrary to common sense. And that state, which is not only impeccable to taxpayers, but to citizens across a number of agendas that he is in charge of, wants to take away the five-day tolerance period for the taxpayer when he forgets, gets sick, forgets to file a tax return, so the five-day period for him to correct his misconduct will be reduced. For me, the third step against the business environment, against entrepreneurs, is to reduce interest on the part of the state. The moment he holds the taxpayer's money unjustly, the interest to be reduced, which the State will then pay back to the taxpayer, to whom he has withheld money that does not belong to the State and which the entrepreneur could again use to develop his company, to develop his business. So I'm going back to the beginning. When we look at whether the tax system helps the business environment, liberalizes the environment, opens it up, makes life easier for entrepreneurs, or makes life more difficult for entrepreneurs and brings other unnecessary costs and regulations for entrepreneurs, we must come to the conclusion that the latter is true. That this is an anti-business law against entrepreneurs and as such we should not support it. I have prepared, or will, of course, support a number of amendments that address these three points. I myself have come up with three amendments, which I will present in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u15	Thank you. Mr Votava has entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Madam Secretary, I will speak with the knowledge that I am therefore a Government Member, a coalition Member. However, I will not forgive myself, and that is also why I am speaking, a comment on the tax system. After all, the Minister has already heard my comment on the Committee on Budgets, so it will be nothing new to her. This comment relates to what has already been laid down here by my previous speakers several times, and this is the question of extending the deadline for the refund of excess VAT, i.e. VAT refunds, from 30 days to 45 days, i.e. by 15 days. Well, I would like to appeal to the Minister to reconsider once more, so there is still time to see if this proposal remains in the law. I did not actively vote in favour of this on the Committee on Budgets, I did not vote at all, but I said that if there is no compromise or compromise solution, a reduction or a launch, I would vote in favour of the amendment of one of my colleagues, which removes this extension measure for those 15 days. [[12.30 hours]] I myself was in my time, in the last parliamentary term, in order to accept the inspection reports. I have considered and still consider it right to prevent value added tax fraud, which should be carried out by the inspection report, and I assume that it is also true of the pairing of invoices. I think that's quite enough control in this area. We often talk about supporting business, especially those small businessmen and small entrepreneurs, and I think that this measure will affect them, extending the time limit for recovery. They're waiting for every crown. Of course, a businessman who has a small turnover or a smaller turnover is happy for every crown that comes from a financial office that gets into his cash flow. This measure damages his cash flow in a way. On the one hand, I understand why the Minister presented this in the tax system, the one-off income for the state budget. Some people are talking about an accountant. It kind of looks like it. I could possibly understand that, but I really think that's more of a thing that doesn't help entrepreneurs, especially the small ones, and the tradesmen. I'm sure bigger companies can handle it. There's no big influence on cash flow. I'd put in a good word for that. As I say, there will probably not be a re-evaluation, so in this case I will vote to remove this provision from the tax system. There's been a question of securing orders. Maybe I'll take advantage of it when there was this mention of the warranty. We were in the Committee on Budgets during the last parliamentary term - and there are a number of people who remember it both from the Committee on Budgets and from the plenary where it was discussed - dealing, in particular in the Committee on Budgets, with irresponsible and often scandalous use of the freezing orders by the tax administration. What caused this for a number of companies that were affected by this - I say unjustly, not to mention, of course, those where the warranty order was in place, but a number of companies were unduly affected and caused them enormous problems, some even liquidation, irreversible liquidation. In a number of cases of owners, entrepreneurs, this has also caused personal tragedy. Even in the Committee on Budgets, in the presence of the new Director-General, I asked whether any of the relevant officials who applied this application were now to be held accountable in an outrageous way, but perhaps I will use it in an outrageous manner. I don't think he was. For what they've done to a number of companies, and for causing damage to the state, because a number of lawsuits, court cases, have come to the conclusion that it was unjustified and that the state has to compensate those firms, even though they may never return to doing business again, because their companies are completely destroyed and destroyed. I'm not questioning the detention order institute at all. I have no doubt that it is justified in our tax system, virtually. in our regulations. I do not question that, because it is definitely a tool that should be used in extreme cases, but it should be used really where it would be appropriate and not abused. Using and using are two different things. That's what I was gonna say about the warranty. I would quite like to know if the consequences of the negotiations have been drawn with those who have been causing these bad things regarding the freezing orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? No one applies to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. The Minister and the rapporteur have no interest in the final words after the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate. Mr Roman Onderka will be the first to speak in a detailed debate, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, I am signing up for an amendment that is inserted into the system under number 4183 to print 580. I have justified both in the general debate and in writing in the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u19	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová, in a detailed debate, will be prepared by Mr Kolářík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u20	I would therefore like to sign up for two amendments. I present the first with Mr Martínek and Mr Ferjenčík. This is House document 4171. The second is presented together with Mr Martínek. This is House document 4187.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u21	Thank you. Member Lukáš Kolářík. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for two amendments. One is under House document 4185 and the other is under House document 4186. Both amendments will put interest on the delay to a maximum of 500 days, then it does not count anymore. One is only for natural persons, the other for natural and legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u23	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, President Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am referring to the amendment which Mrs Kovářová and I are proposing together with Mr Martínek, which is the number of the House document relating to the preservation of refunds at the level of 30 days. I justified him in the general debate and, of course, he has a explanatory report. Furthermore, I submit a proposal under the number of House document 4177, which is a proposal which increases the sanction of the State in the case of unauthorised freezing orders, respectively. unlawful or insignificant, to double the interest paid. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u25	Thank you. President Kalousek, Mr Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in the sense of my speech in the general debate, I would like to subscribe to Amendment 4157.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u27	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Juránek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up to the amendments which have already been mentioned by my previous speakers, Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Kovářová, namely the House documents 4176, 4171 and 4187. I would also like to sign up for the amendment that I commented on here in the general debate, i.e. House document 3941. I would still like to read House document 4164, which is an amendment by my colleague Michálek, who, following negotiations with the Supreme Prosecutor in Prague, where in practice the law enforcement authorities do not receive documents to be publicly available under the law, addresses this material in such a way that this amendment establishes a simple principle that, if something is to be public under the law and the entrepreneur does not comply with this obligation, the Financial Administration that has this document at his disposal must provide this document for the purposes of criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u29	Thank you. Mr. Juránek is next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u30	Thank you. I report to the House of Document 3981, where Jan Bartošek is listed as the petitioner. I said the reasoning in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u31	Instead of the pardoned Mr Hrnčíř, a Member of the Španěl applied to his amendment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would therefore like, on behalf of my fellow Member, Jan Hrnčíř, to sign up for his amendment, which is registered under number 4085. I will simply say that the amendment abolishes the government's proposed abolition of the tolerance of five days for late payment of tax or tax claims. Our amendment consists in introducing at least three days of tolerance. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u33	Thank you. Mr Munzar is next, Mrs Vostrá will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to the amendments that I have justified here in the general debate. There's ten of them, so I'm going to flood you with a wave of numbers. It is an amendment under number 4127, an amendment under number 4128, another 4131, another 4133, another 4134, another 4136, another 4137, another 4147, another, penultimate, under number 4152 and the last, my amendment under number 4153. At the same time, my colleague, the chairman of our club Zbyněk Stanjura, asked me to read two further amendments on his behalf in the detailed debate, which you will find in the House system under numbers 4190 and 4191. You will also find reasons for these documents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u35	Thank you. Mrs Vostrá, Mr Skopeček will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for my amendment under House document 4146. The reasons are in writing part of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u37	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, the last one entered in the detailed debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u38	Thank you very much. I am signing up for three amendments. The first one is in the system under number 4179. This is the release of paragraph 5 in Section 159 of Amendment Point 88. In my opinion, two categories of objections, weaker and stronger, are unsystemically introduced there. So that is one amendment and a response to that. The second is Amendment 4180. This amendment hides that a tax return with formal errors should be considered to be duly filed. Finally, I am applying to the amendment under number 4200. This is an amendment that will allow the waiver of the penalty for the late claim of the tax. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-005-012.u39	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? I am not reporting, I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? She's neither with the Minister nor with the rapporteur. Thank you both. There was no proposal that we should vote on, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Now we're going to go with point number
